
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.14 Records kept by States.

(a) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall maintain records of tests, measurements, analyses, decisions, and determinations performed on each public water system to determine compliance with applicable provisions of State primary drinking water regulations.

(1) Records of microbiological analyses shall be retained for not less than 1 year. Actual laboratory reports may be kept or data may be transferred to tabular summaries, provided that the information retained includes:

(i) The analytical method used;

(ii) The number of samples analyzed each month;

(iii) The analytical results, set forth in a form that makes possible comparison with the limits specified in §§ 141.63, 141.71, and 141.72 of this chapter and with the limits specified in subpart Y of this chapter.

(2) Records of microbiological analyses of repeat or special samples shall be retained for not less than one year in the form of actual laboratory reports or in an appropriate summary form.

(3) Records of turbidity measurements must be kept for not less than one year. The information retained must be set forth in a form which makes possible comparison with the limits specified in §§ 141.71, 141.73, 141.173 and 141.175, 141.550-141.553 and 141.560-141.564 of this chapter. Until June 29, 1993, for any public water system which is providing filtration treatment and until December 30, 1991, for any public water system not providing filtration treatment and not required by the State to provide filtration treatment, records kept must be set forth in a form which makes possible comparison with the limits contained in § 141.13 of this chapter.

(4)(i) Records of disinfectant residual measurements and other parameters necessary to document disinfection effectiveness in accordance with §§ 141.72 and 141.74 of this chapter and the reporting requirements of §§ 141.75, 141.175, and 141.570, of this chapter must be kept for not less than one year.

(ii) Records of decisions made on a system-by-system and case-by-case basis under provisions of part 141, subpart H, subpart P, or subpart T of this chapter, must be made in writing and kept by the State.

(A) Records of decisions made under the following provisions shall be kept for 40 years (or until one year after the decision is reversed or revised) and a copy of the decision must be provided to the system:
