
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.14 Records kept by States.
####### 14

() Section 142.16(b)(2)(i)(B)-Any decision that a system using a ground water source is under the direct influence of surface water.

(iii) Records of any determination that a public water system supplied by a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water is not required to provide filtration treatment shall be kept for 40 years or until withdrawn, whichever is earlier. A copy of the determination must be provided to the system.

(5) Records of each of the following decisions made pursuant to the total coliform provisions of part 141 shall be made in writing and retained by the State.

(i) Records of the following decisions must be retained for 5 years.

(A) Section 141.21(b)(1)-Any decision to waive the 24-hour time limit for collecting repeat samples after a total coliform-positive routine sample if the public water system has a logistical problem in collecting the repeat sample that is beyond the system's control, and what alternative time limit the system must meet.

(B) Section 141.21(b)(5)-Any decision to allow a system to waive the requirement for five routine samples the month following a total coliform-positive sample. If the waiver decision is made as provided in § 141.21(b)(5), the record of the decision must contain all the items listed in that paragraph.

(C) Section 141.21(c)-Any decision to invalidate a total coliform-positive sample. If the decision to invalidate a total coliform-positive sample as provided in § 141.21(c)(1)(iii) is made, the record of the decision must contain all the items listed in that paragraph.

(ii) Records of each of the following decisions must be retained in such a manner so that each system's current status may be determined.

(A) Section 141.21(a)(2)-Any decision to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for a community water system serving 1,000 persons or fewer, that has no history of total coliform contamination in its current configuration and had a sanitary survey conducted within the past five years showing that the system is supplied solely by a protected groundwater source and is free of sanitary defects, to less than once per month, as provided in § 141.21(a)(2); and what the reduced monitoring frequency is. A copy of the reduced monitoring frequency must be provided to the system.

(B) Section 141.21(a)(3)(i)-Any decision to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for a non-community water system using only ground water and serving 1,000 persons or fewer to less than once per quarter, as provided in § 141.21(a)(3)(i), and what the reduced monitoring frequency is. A copy of the reduced monitoring frequency must be provided to the system.

(C) Section 141.21(a)(3)(ii)-Any decision to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for a non-community water system using only ground water and serving more than 1,000 persons during any month the system serves 1,000 persons or fewer, as provided in § 141.21(a)(3)(ii). A copy of the reduced monitoring frequency must be provided to the system.

(D) Section 141.21(a)(5)-Any decision to waive the 24-hour limit for taking a total coliform sample for a public water system which uses surface water, or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, and which does not practice filtration in accordance with part 141, subpart H, and which measures a source water turbidity level exceeding 1 NTU near the first service connection as provided in § 141.21(a)(5).

(E) Section 141.21(d)(1)-Any decision that a non-community water system is using only protected and disinfected ground water and therefore may reduce the frequency of its sanitary survey to less than once every five years, as provided in § 141.21(d), and what that frequency is. A copy of the reduced frequency must be provided to the system.

(F) Section 141.21(d)(2)-A list of agents other than the State, if any, approved by the State to conduct sanitary surveys.
