
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.14 Records kept by States.
####### E. coli,E. coli-

(D) Section 141.858(b)(2) of this chapter-Any decision to allow a system to forgotesting of a total coliform-positive sample if that system assumes that the total coliform-positive sample ispositive.

(b) Records required to be kept pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must be in a form admissible as evidence in State enforcement proceedings.

(c) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall maintain current inventory information for every public water system in the State and shall retain inventory records of public water systems for not less than 12 years.

(d) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall retain, for not less than 12 years, files which shall include for each such public water system in the State:

(1) Reports of sanitary surveys;

(2) Records of any State approvals;

(3) Records of any enforcement actions.

(4) A record of the most recent vulnerability determination, including the monitoring results and other data supporting the determination, the State's findings based on the supporting data and any additional bases for such determination; except that it shall be kept in perpetuity or until a more current vulnerability determination has been issued.

(5) A record of all current monitoring requirements and the most recent monitoring frequency decision pertaining to each contaminant, including the monitoring results and other data supporting the decision, the State's findings based on the supporting data and any additional bases for such decision; except that the record shall be kept in perpetuity or until a more recent monitoring frequency decision has been issued.

(6) A record of the most recent asbestos repeat monitoring determination, including the monitoring results and other data supporting the determination, the State's findings based on the supporting data and any additional bases for the determination and the repeat monitoring frequency; except that these records shall be maintained in perpetuity or until a more current repeat monitoring determination has been issued.

(7) Records of annual certifications received from systems pursuant to part 141, subpart K demonstrating the system's compliance with the treatment techniques for acrylamide and/or epichlorohydrin in § 14.111.

(8) Records of the currently applicable or most recent State determinations, including all supporting information and an explanation of the technical basis for each decision, made under the following provisions of 40 CFR, part 141, subpart I for the control of lead and copper:

(i) Section 141.81(b)-for any water system deemed to be optimized under § 141.81(b)(1) or (b)(3) of this chapter, any conditions imposed by the State on specific water systems to ensure the continued operation and maintenance of corrosion control treatment in place;

(ii) Section 141.82(b)-decisions to require a water system to conduct corrosion control treatment studies;

(iii) Section 141.82(d)-designations of optimal corrosion control treatment and any simultaneous compliance considerations that factored into the designation;

(iv) Section 141.84(b)-lead service line replacement plans;

(v) Section 141.86(a)-compliance sampling pools and any changes to sampling pools;

(vi) Section 141.83(b)(2)-determinations of source water treatment;

(vii) Section 141.83(b)(4)-designations of maximum permissible concentrations of lead and copper in source water;

(viii) Section 141.84(f) and (g)-determinations of lead service line replacement goal rate and determinations as to whether a shorter replacement schedule is feasible for mandatory full lead service line service line replacement;

(ix) Sections 141.81(b)(3)(iii), 141.86(d)(4)(vii), and 141.86(g)(4)(iii)-determinations of additional monitoring requirements and/or other actions required to maintain optimal corrosion control by systems monitoring for lead and copper at the tap less frequently than once every six months that change treatment or add a new source of water;

(x) Section 141.85-system-specific decisions regarding the content of written public education materials and/or the distribution of these materials;

(xi) Section 141.86(b)(5)-system-specific determinations regarding use of non-first-draw samples at non-transient non-community water systems, and community water systems meeting the criteria of § 141.85(b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this chapter, that operate 24 hours a day;

(xii) Section 141.86(c)-system-specific designations of sampling locations for systems subject to reduced monitoring;

(xiii) Section 141.86(d)(iv)(A)-system-specific determinations pertaining to alternative sample collection periods for systems subject to reduced monitoring;

(xiv) Section 141.86(g)-determinations of small system monitoring waivers, waiver recertifications, and waiver revocations;

(xv) Section 141.87(c)(3)-determinations regarding representative entry point locations at ground water systems;

(xvi) Section 141.90(e)(4)-system-specific determinations regarding the submission of information to demonstrate compliance with partial lead service line replacement requirements;

(xvii) Section 141.90(f)-system-specific decisions regarding the resubmission of detailed documentation demonstrating completion of public education requirements and

(xviii) Section 141.88-evaluation and approval of water system source water or treatment changes;

(xix) Section 141.93-identification of small water systems and non-transient non-community water systems utilizing the compliance alternatives, and the compliance alternative selected by the water system and the compliance option approved by the State; and

(xx) Section 141.84(a)-completed lead service line inventories and required updates to inventories.

(9) Records of reports and any other information submitted by PWSs under § 141.90 of this chapter, including records of any 90th percentile values calculated by the State under § 141.90(h) of this chapter.

(10) Records of State activities, and the results thereof, to:

(i) Verify compliance with State determinations issued under §§ 141.82(f) of this chapter, 141.82(h) of this chapter, 141.83(b)(2) of this chapter, and 141.83(b)(4) of this chapter;

(ii) Verify compliance with the requirements related to partial lead service line replacement under § 141.84(d) of this chapter and compliance with lead service line replacement schedules under § 141.84(e) of this chapter; and

(iii) Invalidate tap water lead and copper samples under § 141.86(f) of this chapter.

(11) Records of each system's currently applicable or most recently designated monitoring requirements. If, for the records identified in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) through (xx) of this section, no change is made to State determinations during a 12-year retention period, the State shall retain the record until a new decision, determination, or designation has been issued.

(12) Records of the currently applicable or most recent State determinations, including all supporting information and an explanation of the technical basis for each decision, made under the following provisions of 40 CFR part 141, subpart L for the control of disinfectants and disinfection byproducts. These records must also include interim measures toward installation.

(i) States must keep records of systems that are installing GAC or membrane technology in accordance with § 141.64(b)(2) of this chapter. These records must include the date by which the system is required to have completed installation.

(ii) States must keep records of systems that are required, by the State, to meet alternative minimum TOC removal requirements or for whom the State has determined that the source water is not amenable to enhanced coagulation in accordance with § 141.135(b)(3) and (4) of this chapter, respectively. These records must include the alternative limits and rationale for establishing the alternative limits.

(iii) States must keep records of subpart H systems using conventional treatment meeting any of the alternative compliance criteria in § 141.135(a)(2) or (3) of this chapter.

(iv) States must keep a register of qualified operators that have met the State requirements developed under § 142.16(h)(2).

(13) Records of systems with multiple wells considered to be one treatment plant in accordance with § 141.132(a)(2) of this chapter and § 142.16(h)(5).

(14) Monitoring plans for subpart H systems serving more than 3,300 persons in accordance with § 141.132(f) of this chapter.

(15) List of laboratories approved for analyses in accordance with § 141.131(b) of this chapter.

(16) List of systems required to monitor for disinfectants and disinfection byproducts in accordance with part 141, subpart L of this chapter. The list must indicate what disinfectants and DBPs, other than chlorine, TTHM, and HAA5, if any, are measured.

(17) Records of the currently applicable or most recent State determination, including all supporting information and an explanation of the technical basis of each decision, made under the following provisions of 40 CFR part 141, subpart S and 40 CFR part 142.

(i) Section 142.16(o)(2)(v). Records of written notices of significant deficiencies.

(ii) Section 141.403(a)(5)(ii) of this chapter. Records of corrective action plans, schedule approvals, and State-specified interim measures.

(iii) Section 142.16(o)(4). Records of confirmations under § 141.403(a) of this chapter that a significant deficiency has been corrected or the fecal contamination in the ground water source has been addressed.

(iv) Section 141.402(a)(5) of this chapter. Records of State determinations and records of ground water system's documentation for not conducting triggered source water monitoring.

(v) Section 141.402(d) of this chapter. Records of invalidations of fecal indicator-positive ground water source samples.

(vi) Section 141.402(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter. Records of State approvals of source water monitoring plans.

(vii) Section 142.16(o)(4)(ii). Records of notices of the minimum residual disinfection concentration (when using chemical disinfection) needed to achieve at least 4-log virus inactivation before or at the first customer.

(viii) Sections 142.16(o)(4)(iv) and 142.16(o)(4)(v) Records of notices of the State-specified monitoring and compliance requirements (when using membrane filtration or alternative treatment) needed to achieve at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer.

(ix) Sections 141.403(b)(1) and 141.403(b)(2) of this chapter. Records of written notices from the ground water system that it provides at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log virus inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for a ground water source.

(x) Section 142.16(o)(4)(vi). Records of written determinations that the ground water system may discontinue 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log inactivation and removal).

(e) Each State which has primary enforcement responsibility shall retain records pertaining to each variance and exemption granted by it for a period of not less than 5 years following the expiration of such variance or exemption.

(f) Public notification records under subpart Q of part 141 of this chapter received from public water systems (including certifications of compliance and copies of public notices) and any state determinations establishing alternative public notification requirements for the water systems must be retained for three years.

(g) Records required to be kept under this section shall be available to the Regional Administrator upon request. The records required to be kept under this section shall be maintained and made available for public inspection by the State, or, the State at its option may require suppliers of water to make available for public inspection those records maintained in accordance with § 141.33.
