
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.14 Records kept by States.
####### Giardia lamblia,Cryptosporidium

(ii) Records of decisions that a system using alternative filtration technologies, as allowed under §§ 141.173(b) and § 141.552 of this chapter, can consistently achieve a 99.9 percent removal and/or inactivation ofcysts, 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses, and 99 percent removal ofoocysts. The decisions must include State-set enforceable turbidity limits for each system. A copy of the decision must be kept until the decision is reversed or revised. The State must provide a copy of the decision to the system.

(iii) Records of systems required to do filter self-assessment, CPE, or CCP under the requirements of §§ 141.175 and 141.563 of this chapter.

(8) Any decisions made pursuant to the provisions of 40 CFR part 141, subparts U and V of this part.

(i) IDSE monitoring plans, plus any modifications required by the State, must be kept until replaced by approved IDSE reports.

(ii) IDSE reports and 40/30 certifications, plus any modifications required by the State, must be kept until replaced or revised in their entirety.

(iii) Operational evaluations submitted by a system must be kept for 10 years following submission.

(9) Any decisions made pursuant to the provisions of part 141, subpart W of this chapter.
