
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.15 Reports by States.
####### Special reports,Surface Water Treatment Rule.

(c)-(1)(i)(A) A list identifying the name, PWS identification number and date of the determination for each public water system supplied by a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water, which the State has determined is not required to provide filtration treatment.

(B) A list identifying the name and PWS identification number of each public water system supplied by a surface water source or ground water source under the direct influence of surface water, which the State has determined, based on an evaluation of site-specific considerations, has no means of having a sample transported and analyzed for HPC by a certified laboratory under the requisite time and temperature conditions specified in § 141.74(a)(3) and is providing adequate disinfection in the distribution system, regardless of whether the system is in compliance with the criteria of § 141.72 (a)(4)(i) or (b)(3)(i) of this chapter, as allowed by § 141.72 (a)(4)(ii) and (b)(3)(ii). The list must include the effective date of each determination.

(ii) Notification within 60 days of the end of the calendar quarter of any determination that a public water system using a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water is not required to provide filtration treatment. The notification must include a statement describing the system's compliance with each requirement of the State's regulations that implement § 141.71 and a summary of comments, if any, received from the public on the determination. A single notification may be used to report two or more such determinations.
