
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### ยง 142.16 Special primacy requirements.
####### Sanitary survey.

(3)In addition to the general requirements for sanitary surveys contained in ยง 142.10(b)(2), an application must describe how the State will implement a sanitary survey program that meets the requirements in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (v) of this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, "sanitary survey" means an onsite review of the water source (identifying sources of contamination using results of source water assessments where available), facilities, equipment, operation, maintenance, and monitoring compliance of a public water system to evaluate the adequacy of the system, its sources and operations and the distribution of safe drinking water.

(i) The State must conduct sanitary surveys for all surface water systems (including groundwater under the influence) that address the eight sanitary survey components listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) through (H) of this section no less frequently than every three years for community systems and no less frequently than every five years for noncommunity systems. The State may allow sanitary surveys conducted after December 1995 to serve as the first set of required sanitary surveys if the surveys address the eight sanitary survey components listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) through (H) of this section.

(A) Source.

(B) Treatment, including corrosion control treatment and water quality parameters as applicable.

(C) Distribution system.

(D) Finished water storage.

(E) Pumps, pump facilities, and controls.

(F) Monitoring and reporting and data verification.

(G) System management and operation.

(H) Operator compliance with State requirements.

(ii) For community systems determined by the State to have outstanding performance based on prior sanitary surveys, subsequent sanitary surveys may be conducted no less than every five years. In its primacy application, the State must describe how it will decide whether a system has outstanding performance and is thus eligible for sanitary surveys at a reduced frequency.

(iii) Components of a sanitary survey may be completed as part of a staged or phased state review process within the established frequency.

(iv) When conducting sanitary surveys for systems required to comply with the disinfection profiling requirements in ยง 141.172 of this chapter, the State must also review the disinfection profile as part of the sanitary survey.

(v) In its primacy application, the State must describe how it will decide whether a deficiency identified during a sanitary survey is significant for the purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
