
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.16 Special primacy requirements.
####### Giardia lamblia

(D) Section 141.73(d) (alternative filtration technologies)-Determine that a public water system has demonstrated that an alternate filtration technology, in combination with disinfection treatment, achieves adequate removal and/or disinfection ofand viruses.

(E) Section 141.74(a)(5) (alternate analytical method for chlorine)-Approve DPD colorimetric test kits for free and combined chlorine measurement or approve calibration of automated methods by the Indigo Method for ozone determination.

(F) Section 141.74 (b)(2) and (c)(1) (approval of continuous turbidity monitoring)-Approve continuous turbidity monitoring, as allowed by § 141.74(b)(2) for a public water system which does not provide filtration treatment and § 141.74(c)(1) for a system which does provide filtration treatment.

(G) Section 141.74 (b)(6)(i) and (c)(3)(i) (approval of alternate disinfectant residual concentration sampling plans)-Approve alternate disinfectant residual concentration sampling plans for systems which have a combined ground water and surface water or ground water and ground water under the direct influence of a surface water distribution system, as allowed by § 141.74(b)(6)(i) for a public water system which does not provide filtration treatment and § 141.74(c)(3)(i) for a public water system which does provide filtration treatment.

(H) Section 141.74(c)(1) (reduction of turbidity monitoring)-Decide whether to allow reduction of turbidity monitoring for systems using slow sand filtration, an approved alternate filtration technology or serving 500 people or fewer.

(I) Section 141.75 (a)(2)(ix) and (b)(2)(iv) (reduced reporting)-Determine whether reduced reporting is appropriate, as allowed by § 141.75(a)(2)(ix) for a public water system which does not provide filtration treatment and § 141.75(b)(2)(iv) for a public water system which does provide filtration treatment.

(iv) For a State which does not require all public water systems using a surface water source or ground water source under the direct influence of surface water to provide filtration treatment and which uses any of the following discretionary provisions, the application must describe how the State will:

(A) Section 141.71(a)(2)(i) (source water turbidity requirements)-Determine that an exceedance of turbidity limits in source water was caused by circumstances that were unusual and unpredictable.

(B) Section 141.71(b)(1)(i) (monthly CT compliance requirements)-Determine whether failure to meet the requirements for monthly CT compliance in § 141.72(a)(1) was caused by circumstances that were unusual and unpredictable.

(C) Section 141.71(b)(1)(iii) (residual disinfectant concentration requirements)-Determine whether failure to meet the requirements for residual disinfectant concentration entering the distribution system in § 141.72(a)(3)(i) was caused by circumstances that were unusual and unpredictable.

(D) Section 141.71(b)(1)(iv) (distribution system disinfectant residual concentration requirements)-Determine whether failure to meet the requirements for distribution system residual disinfectant concentration in § 141.72(a)(4) was related to a deficiency in treatment.

(E) Section 141.71(b)(4) (system modification to prevent waterborne disease outbreak)-Determine that a system, after having been identified as the source of a waterborne disease outbreak, has been modified sufficiently to prevent another such occurrence.

(F) Section 141.71(b)(5) (total coliform MCL)-Determine whether a total coliform MCL violation was caused by a deficiency in treatment.

(G) Section 141.72(a)(1) (disinfection requirements)-Determine that different ozone, chloramine, or chlorine dioxide CTvalues or conditions are adequate to achieve required disinfection.

(H) Section 141.72(a)(2)(ii) (shut-off of water to distribution system)-Determine whether a shut-off of water to the distribution system when the disinfectant residual concentration entering the distribution system is less than 0.2 mg/1 will cause an unreasonable risk to health or interfere with fire protection.

(I) Section 141.74(b)(1) (coliform monitoring)-Determine that coliform monitoring which otherwise might be required is not feasible for a system.

(J) Section 141.74(b), table 3.1 (disinfection with chloramines)-Determine the conditions to be met to insure 99.99 percent removal and/or inactivation of viruses in systems which use either preformed chloramines or chloramines for which ammonia is added to the water before chlorine, as allowed by table 3.1.
