
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.16 Special primacy requirements.
####### Giardia lamblia,Giardia lamblia

(C) Section 141.72(b)(1) (achieving requiredand virus removal in filtered systems)-Determine that the combined treatment process incorporating disinfection treatment and filtration treatment will achieve the required removal and/or inactivation ofand viruses.

(D) Section 141.74(a) (State approval of parties to conduct analyses)-approve parties to conduct pH, temperature, turbidity, and residual disinfectant concentration measurements.

(E) Determine appropriate filtration treatment technology for source waters of various qualities.

(ii) For a State which does not require all public water systems using a surface water source or ground water source under the direct influence of surface water to provide filtration treatment, a State application for program revision approval must include a description of how the State will accomplish the following:

(A) Section 141.71(b)(2) (watershed control program)-Judge the adequacy of watershed control programs.

(B) Section 141.71(b)(3) (approval of on-site inspectors)-Approve on-site inspectors other than State personnel and evaluate the results of on-site inspections.

(iii) For a State which adopts any of the following discretionary elements of part 141 of this chapter, the application must describe how the State will:

(A) Section 141.72 (interim disinfection requirements)-Determine interim disinfection requirements for unfiltered systems which the State has determined must filter which will be in effect until filtration is installed.

(B) Section 141.72 (a)(4)(ii) and (b)(3)(ii) (determination of adequate disinfection in system without disinfectant residual)-Determine that a system is unable to measure HPC but is still providing adequate disinfection in the distribution system, as allowed by § 141.72(a)(4)(ii) for systems which do not provide filtration treatment and § 141.72(b)(3)(ii) for systems which do provide filtration treatment.

(C) Section 141.73 (a)(1) and (b)(1) (alternative turbidity limit)-Determine whether an alternative turbidity limit is appropriate and what the level should be as allowed by § 141.73(a)(1) for a system using conventiona1 filtration treatment or direct filtration and by § 141.73(b)(1) for a system using slow sand filtration.
