
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.16 Special primacy requirements.
####### Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, subpart I-Control of Lead and Copper.

(d)An application for approval of a State program revision which adopts the requirements specified in 40 CFR part 141, subpart I, must contain (in addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State regulations be at least as stringent as the federal requirements) a description of how the State will accomplish the following program requirements:

(1) Section 141.82-State designation of optimal corrosion control.

(i) Sections 141.82(d), 141.82(f), and 141.82(h)-Designating optimal corrosion control treatment methods, optimal water quality parameters, and modifications thereto.

(ii) Section 141.82(g)-Designating an alternative approach for aggregating multiple measurements collected during the same day for a water quality parameter at a sampling location, if the State elects to adopt a formula other than the one specified in § 141.82(g)(1) of this chapter.

(2) Sections 141.83(b)(2) and 141.83(b)(4)-Designating source water treatment methods, maximum permissible source water levels for lead and copper and modifications thereto.

(3) Section 141.90(e)-Verifying compliance with lead service line replacement schedules and completion of all partial lead service line replacement activities.

(4) Section 141.86(d)(4)(iv)(A)-Designating an alternative period for sample collection for community water systems subject to reduced monitoring.

(5) Section 141.84-Providing or requiring the review of any resource, information, or identification method for the development of the initial inventory or inventory updates. Requiring water systems whose inventories contain only non-lead service lines and the water system subsequently finds a lead service line to prepare an updated inventory on a schedule determined by the State.

(6) Section 141.84-For community water systems serving greater than 10,000 persons, approving the lead service line replacement goal rate as recommended by the water system in its lead service line replacement plan, or designating an alternative goal rate than recommended, within six months of the compliance date specified in § 141.80(a) of this chapter.

(7) Section 141.84(g)(9)-Determining whether a greater mandatory lead service line replacement rate is feasible and notifying the system of the determination in writing within 6 months after the system is required to begin lead service line replacement (LSLR).

(8) Section 141.92-Defining a school or child care facility and determining any existing State or local testing program is at least as stringent as the Federal requirements.

(9) Section 141.82-Verifying compliance with "find-and-fix" requirements.

(10) Section 141.88-Reviewing any change in source water or treatment and making related determinations, including approval; establishment of additional requirements to ensure the system will operate and maintain optimal corrosion control treatment; and an evaluation of how this change may impact other national primary drinking water regulations in part 141 of this chapter.

(e) An application for approval of a State program revision which adopts the requirements specified in §§ 141.11, 141.23, 141.24, 141.32, 141.61, and 141.62 for a newly regulated contaminant must contain the following (in addition to the general primacy requirements enumerated elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State regulations be at least as stringent as the Federal requirements):

(1) If a State chooses to issue waivers from the monitoring requirements in §§ 141.23 and 141.24, the State shall describe the procedures and criteria which it will use to review waiver applications and issue waiver determinations.

(i) The procedures for each contaminant or class of contaminants shall include a description of:

(A) The waiver application requirements;

(B) The State review process for "use" waivers and for "susceptibility" waivers; and

(C) The State decision criteria, including the factors that will be considered in deciding to grant or deny waivers. The decision criteria must include the factors specified in §§ 141.24(f)(8) and 141.24(h)(6).

(ii) The State must specify the monitoring data and other documentation required to demonstrate that the contaminant is eligible for a "use" and/or "susceptibility" waiver.

(2) A monitoring plan for the initial monitoring period by which the State will assure all systems complete the required initial monitoring within the regulatory deadlines.

(i) The initial monitoring plan must describe how systems will be scheduled during the initial monitoring period and demonstrate that the analytical workload on certified laboratories for each of the three years has been taken into account, to assure that the State's plan will result in a high degree of monitoring compliance and that as a result there is a high probability of compliance and will be updated as necessary.

(ii) The State must demonstrate that the initial monitoring plan is enforceable under State law.
