
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.16 Special primacy requirements.
####### Total coliform requirements.

(c)In addition to meeting the general primacy requirements of this part, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts the requirements of the national primary drinking water regulation for total coliforms must contain the following information:

(1) The application must describe the State's plan for determining whether sample siting plans are acceptable (including periodic reviews), as required by § 141.21(a)(1).

(2) The national primary drinking water regulation for total coliforms in part 141 gives States the option to impose lesser requirements in certain circumstances, which are listed below. If a State chooses to exercise any of these options, its application for approval of a program revision must include the information listed below (the State need only provide the information listed for those options it has chosen to use).

(i) Section 141.21(a)(2) (Reduced monitoring requirements for community water systems serving 1,000 or fewer persons)-A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for such systems using the criteria in § 141.21(a)(2) and how it will determine the revised frequency.

(ii) Section 141.21(a)(3)(i) (Reduced monitoring requirements for non-community water systems using ground water and serving 1,000 persons or fewer)-A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for such systems using the criteria in § 141.21(a)(3)(i) and how it will determine the revised frequency.

(iii) Section 141.21(a)(3)(ii) (Reduced monitoring for non-community water systems using ground water and serving more than 1,000 persons)-A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to reduce the total coliform monitoring frequency for non-community water systems using only ground water and serving more than 1,000 persons during any month the system serves 1,000 persons or fewer and how it will determine the revised frequency.

(iv) Section 141.21(a)(5) (Waiver of time limit for sampling after a turbidity sampling result exceeds 1 NTU)-A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to waive the 24-hour time limit.

(v) Section 141.21(b)(1) (Waiver of time limit for repeat samples)-A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to waive the 24-hour time limit and how it will determine what the revised time limit will be.

(vi) Section 141.21(b)(3) (Alternative repeat monitoring requirements for systems with a single service connection)-A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to allow a system with a single service connection to use an alternative repeat monitoring scheme, as provided in § 141.21(b)(3), and what the alternative requirements will be.

(vii) Section 141.21(b)(5) (Waiver of requirement to take five routine samples the month after a system has a total coliform-positive sample)-A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to waive the requirement for certain systems to collect five routine samples during the next month it serves water to the public, using the criteria in § 141.21(b)(5).

(viii) Section 141.21(c) (Invalidation of total coliform-positive samples)-A description of how the State will determine whether it is appropriate to invalidate a total coliform-positive sample, using the criteria in § 141.21(c).

(ix) Section 141.21(d) (Sanitary surveys)-A description of the State's criteria and procedures for approving agents other than State personnel to conduct sanitary surveys.
