
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### ยง 142.16 Special primacy requirements.
####### Requirements for States to adopt 40 CFR part 141, subpart L.

(h)In addition to the general primacy requirements elsewhere in this part, including the requirement that State regulations be at least as stringent as federal requirements, an application for approval of a State program revision that adopts 40 CFR part 141, subpart L, must contain a description of how the State will accomplish the following program requirements:

(1) Section 141.64(b)(2) of this chapter (interim treatment requirements). Determine any interim treatment requirements for those systems electing to install GAC or membrane filtration and granted additional time to comply with ยง 141.64 of this chapter.

(2) Section 141.130(c) of this chapter (qualification of operators). Qualify operators of public water systems subject to 40 CFR part 141, subpart L. Qualification requirements established for operators of systems subject to 40 CFR part 141, subpart H-Filtration and Disinfection may be used in whole or in part to establish operator qualification requirements for meeting 40 CFR part 141, subpart L requirements if the State determines that the 40 CFR part 141, subpart H requirements are appropriate and applicable for meeting subpart L requirements.

(3) Section 141.131(c)(2) of this chapter (DPD colorimetric test kits). Approve DPD colorimetric test kits for free and total chlorine measurements. State approval granted under ยง 141.74(a)(2) of this chapter for the use of DPD colorimetric test kits for free chlorine testing is acceptable for the use of DPD test kits in measuring free chlorine residuals as required in 40 CFR part 141, subpart L.

(4) Sections 141.131(c)(3) and (d) of this chapter (State approval of parties to conduct analyses). Approve parties to conduct pH, bromide, alkalinity, and residual disinfectant concentration measurements. The State's process for approving parties performing water quality measurements for systems subject to 40 CFR part 141, subpart H requirements in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section may be used for approving parties measuring water quality parameters for systems subject to subpart L requirements, if the State determines the process is appropriate and applicable.

(5) Section 141.132(a)(2) of this chapter (multiple wells as a single source). Define the criteria to use to determine if multiple wells are being drawn from a single aquifer and therefore be considered a single source for compliance with monitoring requirements.

(6) Approve alternate minimum TOC removal (Step 2) requirements, as allowed under the provisions of ยง 141.135(b) of this chapter.
