
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### ยง 142.16 Special primacy requirements.
####### State practices or procedures for sanitary surveys.

(2)In addition to the general requirements for sanitary surveys contained in ยง 142.10(b)(2), a primacy application must describe how the State will implement a sanitary survey program that meets the requirements of paragraph (o)(2)(i) of this section. A "sanitary survey," as conducted by the State, includes but is not limited to, an onsite review of the water source(s) (identifying sources of contamination by using results of source water assessments or other relevant information where available), facilities, equipment, operation, maintenance, and monitoring compliance of a public water system to evaluate the adequacy of the system, its sources and operations and the distribution of safe drinking water.

(i) The State must conduct sanitary surveys that address the eight sanitary survey components listed in this section no less frequently than every three years for community water systems, except as provided in paragraph (o)(2)(iii) of this section, and every five years for non-community water systems. The State may conduct more frequent sanitary surveys for any system. The initial sanitary survey for each community water system must be conducted by December 31, 2012, unless the system meets the requirements of paragraph (o)(2)(iii) of this section. The initial sanitary survey for each community water system that meets the requirements of paragraph (o)(2)(iii) of this section and for each non-community water system must be conducted by December 31, 2014. The sanitary survey must include an evaluation of each of the following elements as applicable:

(A) Source,

(B) Treatment, including corrosion control treatment and water quality parameters as applicable;

(C) Distribution system,

(D) Finished water storage,

(E) Pumps, pump facilities, and controls,

(F) Monitoring, reporting, and data verification,

(G) System management and operation, and

(H) Operator compliance with State requirements.

(ii) The State may use a phased review process to meet the requirements of (o)(2)(i) of this section if all the applicable elements of paragraphs (o)(2)(i)(A) through (o)(2)(i)(H) of this section are evaluated within the required interval.

(iii) The State may conduct sanitary surveys once every five years for community water systems if the system either provides at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for all its ground water sources, or if it has an outstanding performance record, as determined by the State and documented in previous sanitary surveys and has no history of total coliform MCL or monitoring violations under ยง 141.21 of this chapter since the last sanitary survey. In its primacy application, the State must describe how it will determine whether a community water system has an outstanding performance record.

(iv) The State must define and describe in its primacy application at least one specific significant deficiency in each of the eight sanitary survey elements in paragraphs (o)(2)(i)(A) through (o)(2)(i)(H) of this section. Significant deficiencies include, but are not limited to, defects in design, operation, or maintenance, or a failure or malfunction of the sources, treatment, storage, or distribution system that the State determines to be causing, or have potential for causing, the introduction of contamination into the water delivered to consumers.

(v) As a condition of primacy, the State must provide ground water systems with written notice describing any significant deficiencies no later than 30 days after the State identifies the significant deficiency. The notice may specify corrective actions and deadlines for completion of corrective actions. The State may provide the written notice at the time of the sanitary survey.
