
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### ยง 142.16 Special primacy requirements.
####### State practices or procedures for treatment technique requirements.

(4)As a condition of primacy, the State must verify that significant deficiencies or source water fecal contamination have been addressed. The State must verify within 30 days after the ground water system has reported to the State that it has completed corrective action. The State must verify either through written confirmation from the ground water system or a site visit by the State. Written notice from the ground water system under ยง 141.405(a)(2) of this chapter may serve as this verification. The State's primacy application must include the following:

(i) The process the State will use to determine that a ground water system achieves at least a 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a combination of inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for a ground water source for systems that are not subject to the source water monitoring requirements of ยง 141.402(a) of this chapter because the ground water system has informed the State that it provides at least 4-log treatment of viruses.

(ii) The process the State will use to determine the minimum residual disinfectant concentration the system must provide prior to the first customer for systems using chemical disinfection.

(iii) The State-approved alternative technologies that ground water systems may use alone or in combination with other approved technologies to achieve at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of 4-log inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for a ground water source.

(iv) The monitoring and compliance requirements the State will require for ground water systems treating to at least 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer for State-approved alternative treatment technologies.

(v) The monitoring, compliance and membrane integrity testing requirements the State will require to demonstrate virus removal for ground water systems using membrane filtration technologies.

(vi) The criteria, including public health-based considerations and incorporating on-site investigations and source water monitoring results the State will use to determine if a ground water system may discontinue 4-log treatment of viruses (using inactivation, removal, or a State-approved combination of inactivation and removal) before or at the first customer.
