
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart C - Review of State-Issued Variances and Exemptions
###### ยง 142.23 Notice to State.

(a) If the Administrator finds that a State has, in a substantial number of instances, abused its discretion in granting variances or exemptions under section 1415(a) or section 1416(a) of the Act or failed to prescribe schedules in accordance with section 1415(a) or section 1416(b) of the Act, he shall notify the State of his findings. Such notice shall:

(1) Identify each public water system for which the finding was made;

(2) Specify the reasons for the finding; and

(3) As appropriate, propose revocation of specific variances or exemptions, or propose revised schedules for specific public water systems.

(b) The Administrator shall also notify the State of a public hearing to be held on the provisions of the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section. Such notice shall specify the time and location for the hearing. If, upon notification of a finding by the Administrator, the State takes adequate corrective action, the Administrator shall rescind his notice to the State of a public hearing, provided that the Administrator is notified of the corrective action prior to the hearing.

(c) The Administrator shall publish notice of the public hearing in theand in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in the involved State including a summary of the findings made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a statement of the time and location for the hearing, and the address and telephone number of an office at which interested persons may obtain further information concerning the hearing.

(d) Hearings convened pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be conducted before a hearing officer to be designated by the Administrator. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer in an informal, orderly and expeditious manner. The hearing officer shall have authority to call witnesses, receive oral and written testimony and take such other action as may be necessary to assure the fair and efficient conduct of the hearing. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall forward the record of the hearing to the Administrator.

(e) Within 180 days after the date notice is given pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator shall:

(1) Rescind the finding for which the notice was given and promptly notify the State of such rescission, or

(2) Promulgate with any modifications as appropriate such revocation and revised schedules proposed in such notice and promptly notify the State of such action.

(f) A revocation or revised schedule shall take effect 90 days after the State is notified under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
