
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### ยง 142.19 EPA review of State implementation of national primary drinking water regulations for lead and copper.

(a) Pursuant to the procedures in this section, the Regional Administrator may review state determinations establishing corrosion control or source water treatment requirements for lead or copper and may issue an order establishing federal treatment requirements for a public water system pursuant to ยง 141.82 (d) and (f) and ยง 141.83(b) (2) and (4) where the Regional Administrator finds that:

(1) A State has failed to issue a treatment determination by the applicable deadline;

(2) A State has abused its discretion in making corrosion control or source water treatment determinations in a substantial number of cases or in cases affecting a substantial population, or

(3) The technical aspects of State's determination would be indefensible in an expected federal enforcement action taken against a system.

(b) If the Regional Administrator determines that review of state determination(s) under this section may be appropriate, he shall request the State to forward to EPA the state determination and all information that was considered by the State in making its determination, including public comments, if any, within 60 days of the Regional Adminstrator's request.

(c) Proposed review of state determinations:

(1) Where the Regional Administrator finds that review of a state determination under paragraph (a) of this section is appropriate, he shall issue a proposed review order which shall:

(i) Identify the public water system(s) affected, the State determination being reviewed and the provisions of state and/or federal law at issue;

(ii) Identify the determination that the State failed to carry out by the applicable deadline, or identify the particular provisions of the State determination which, in the Regional Administrator's judgment, fail to carry out properly applicable treatment requirements, and explain the basis for the Regional Administrator's conclusion;

(iii) Identify the treatment requirements which the Regional Administrator proposes to apply to the affected system(s), and explain the basis for the proposed requirements;

(iv) Request public comment on the proposed order and the supporting record.

(2) The Regional Administrator shall provide notice of the proposed review order by:

(i) Mailing the proposed order to the affected public water system(s), the state agency whose order is being reviewed, and any other parties of interest known to the Regional Administrator; and

(ii) Publishing a copy of the proposed order in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected communities.

(3) The Regional Administrator shall make available for public inspection during the comment period the record supporting the proposed order, which shall include all of the information submitted by the State to EPA under paragraph (b) of this section, all other studies, monitoring data and other information considered by the Agency in developing the proposed order.

(d) Final review order:

(1) Based upon review of all information obtained regarding the proposed review order, including public comments, the Regional Administrator shall issue a final review order within 120 days after issuance of the proposed order which affirms, modifies, or withdraws the proposed order. The Regional Administrator may extend the time period for issuing the final order for good cause. If the final order modifies or withdraws the proposed order, the final order shall explain the reasons supporting the change.

(2) The record of the final order shall consist of the record supporting the proposed order, all public comments, all other information considered by the Regional Administrator in issuing the final order and a document responding to all significant public comments submitted on the proposed order. If new points are raised or new material supplied during the public comment period, the Regional Administrator may support the responses on those matters by adding new materials to the record. The record shall be complete when the final order is issued.

(3) Notice of the final order shall be provided by mailing the final order to the affected system(s), the State, and all parties who commented on the proposed order.

(4) Upon issuance of the final order, its terms constitute requirements of the national primary drinking water regulation for lead and/or copper until such time as the Regional Administrator issues a new order (which may include recision of the previous order) pursuant to the procedures in this section. Such requirements shall supersede any inconsistent treatment requirements established by the State pursuant to the national primary drinking water regulations for lead and copper.

(5) The Regional Administrator may not issue a final order to impose conditions less stringent than those imposed by the State.

(e) The Regional Administrator may not delegate authority to sign the final order under this section.

(f) Final action of the Regional Administrator under paragraph (d) of this section shall constitute action of the Administrator for purposes of 42 U.S.C. ยง 300j-7(a)(2).
