
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart H - Indian Tribes
###### ยง 142.76 Request by an Indian Tribe for a determination of eligibility.
####### et seq.,et seq.

(1) A description of the Indian Tribe's previous management experience which may include, the administration of programs and services authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450), the Indian Mineral Development Act (25 U.S.C. 2101), or the Indian Sanitation Facilities Construction Activity Act (42 U.S.C. 2004a).

(2) A list of existing environmental or public health programs administered by the Tribal governing body and a copy of related Tribal laws, regulations and policies.

(3) A description of the Indian Tribe's accounting and procurement systems.

(4) A description of the entity (or entities) which exercise the executive, legislative, and judicial functions of the Tribal government.

(5) A description of the existing, or proposed, agency of the Indian Tribe which will assume primary enforcement responsibility, including a description of the relationship between owners/operators of the public water systems and the agency.

(6) A description of the technical and administrative capabilities of the staff to administer and manage an effective Public Water System Program or a plan which proposes how the Tribe will acquire additional administrative and/or technical expertise. The plan must address how the Tribe will obtain the funds to acquire the additional administrative and technical expertise.

(e) The Administrator may, in his discretion, request further documentation necessary to support a Tribe's eligibility.

(f) If the Administrator has previously determined that a Tribe has met the prerequisites that make it eligible to assume a role similar to that of a state as provided by statute under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act, or the Clean Air Act, then that Tribe need provide only that information unique to the Public Water System program (paragraphs (c), (d)(5) and (6) of this section).
