
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 143 - OTHER SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Use of Lead Free Pipes, Fittings, Fixtures, Solder, and Flux for Drinking Water
###### § 143.19 Required certification of products.

(a) Manufacturers or importers that introduce into commerce products that must meet the lead free requirements of section 1417 of the Safe Drinking Water Act and § 143.12 must ensure, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, that the products are certified to be in compliance as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section by September 1, 2023, or prior to product introduction into commerce, whichever occurs later. Such manufacturers or importers must maintain documentation to substantiate the certification for at least 5 years from the date of the last sale of the product by the manufacturer or importer.

(1) Product components of assembled pipes, fittings, or fixtures do not need to be individually certified if the entire product in its final assembled form is lead free certified.

(2) Direct replacement parts for previously installed lead free certified products do not need to be individually certified if the weighted average lead content of wetted surface area for the part does not exceed such lead content of the original part.

(3) Dishwashers do not need to be certified.

(b) Certification of products must be obtained by manufacturers or importers from an accredited third party certification body, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The manufacturer or importer must keep records for all products certified by an accredited third party certification body that include, at a minimum, documentation of certification, of dates of certification, and of expiration. This documentation must be provided upon request to the Administrator as specified in § 143.20(b).

(c) Products may be self-certified by manufacturers or importers as provided in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section. Such manufacturers or importers electing to self-certify products must comply with paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section.

(1) Manufacturers having fewer than 10 employees, or importers entering products purchased from or manufactured by manufacturers having fewer than 10 employees, may elect to self-certify products in lieu of obtaining certification from an accredited third party certification body. The number of employees includes any persons employed by the manufacturer and any of its affiliated entities. The number of employees must be calculated by averaging the number of persons employed, regardless of part-time, full-time, or temporary status, by an entity and all of its affiliated entities for each pay period over the entity's latest 12 calendar months or averaged over the number of months in existence if less than 12 months. Any such firms that subsequently expand employment to 10 or more employees, based on the most recent 12-month average number of persons employed, are no longer eligible to self-certify products and must obtain third party certification within 12 months of having 10 or more employees.

(2) Manufacturers or importers may elect to self-certify any custom fabricated product in lieu of obtaining certification from an ANSI accredited third party certification body, regardless of the number of persons employed by the manufacturer.

(d) In order for eligible manufacturers or importers to self-certify products, such manufacturers or importers must attest that products are in compliance with the definition of "lead free" in § 143.12 by developing and maintaining a "certificate of conformity." The certificate of conformity must be:

(1) Signed by a responsible corporate officer; a general partner or proprietor; or an authorized representative of a responsible corporate officer, general partner, or proprietor; and

(2) Posted to a website with continuing public access in the United States, unless it is distributed by other means (e.g., electronically or in hard copy) with the product through the distribution channel for final delivery to the end use installer of the product.

(e) The certificate of conformity must be in English and include:

(1) Contact information for the manufacturer or importer to include:

(i) The entity or proprietor name;

(ii) Street and mailing addresses;

(iii) Phone number; and

(iv) Email address;

(2) For products imported into the United States, the contact information must also be included for the manufacturer;

(3) A brief listing of the products to include, when applicable, unique identifying information such as model names and numbers;

(4) A statement attesting that the products meet the lead free requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act and 40 CFR part 143, subpart B, and also that the manufacturer or importer is eligible to self-certify the product consistent with this regulation;

(5) A statement indicating how the manufacturer or importer verified conformance with the Safe Drinking Water Act and 40 CFR part 143, subpart B; and

(6) The signature, date, name, and position of the signatory; and, if the signatory is an authorized representative of a responsible corporate officer, a general partner, or a proprietor, the name and position of the officer, partner, or proprietor.

(f) Manufacturers or importers that self-certify products must maintain, at a primary place of business within the United States, certificates of conformity and sufficient documentation to confirm that products meet the lead free requirements of this subpart. Sufficient documentation may include detailed schematic drawings of the products indicating dimensions, records of calculations of the weighted average lead content of the product, documentation of the lead content of materials used in manufacture, and other documentation used in verifying the lead content of a plumbing device. This documentation and certificates of conformity must be provided upon request to the Administrator as specified in § 143.20(b) and must be maintained for at least five (5) years after the last sale of the product by the manufacturer or importer.

(g) The certificate of conformity and documentation must be completed prior to a product's introduction into commerce.
