
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Authorization of Underground Injection by Rule
###### ยง 144.28 Requirements for Class I, II, and III wells authorized by rule.
####### Reporting requirements.

(h)The owner or operator shall submit reports to the Director as follows:

(1) For Class I wells, quarterly reports on:

(i) The physical, chemical, and other relevant characteristics of the injection fluids;

(ii) Monthly average, maximum, and minimum values for injection pressure, flow rate and volume, and annular pressure;

(iii) The results from ground-water monitoring wells prescribed in paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section;

(iv) The results of any test of the injection well conducted by the owner or operator during the reported quarter if required by the Director; and

(v) Any well work over performed during the reported quarter.

(2) For Class II wells:

(i) An annual report to the Director summarizing the results of all monitoring, as required in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. Such summary shall include monthly records of injected fluids, and any major changes in characteristics or sources of injected fluids. Previously submitted information may be included by reference.

(ii) The owner or operator of hydrocarbon storage and enhanced recovery projects may report on a field or project basis rather than on an individual well basis where manifold monitoring is used.

(3) For Class III wells:

(i) Quarterly reporting on all monitoring, as required in paragraph (g)(3) of this section;

(ii) Quarterly reporting of the results of any periodic tests required by the Director that are performed during the reported quarter;

(iii) Monitoring may be reported on a project or field basis rather than an individual well basis where manifold monitoring is used.
