
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Authorization of Underground Injection by Rule
###### ยง 144.28 Requirements for Class I, II, and III wells authorized by rule.
####### Monitoring requirements.

(g)The owner or operator shall perform the monitoring as described in this paragraph. For EPA administered programs, monitoring of the nature of the injected fluids shall comply with applicable analytical methods cited and described in table I of 40 CFR 136.3 or in appendix III of 40 CFR part 261 or by other methods that have been approved by the Regional Administrator.

(1) The owner or operator of a Class I well shall:

(i) Analyze the nature of the injected fluids with sufficient frequency to yield data representative of their characteristics;

(ii) Install and use continuous recording devices to monitor injection pressure, flow rate and volume, and the pressure on the annulus between the tubing and the long string of casing;

(iii) Install and use monitoring wells within the area of review if required by the Director, to monitor any migration of fluids into and pressure in the underground sources of drinking water. The type, number and location of the wells, the parameters to be measured, and the frequency of monitoring must be approved by the Director.

(2) For Class II wells:

(i) The owner or operator shall monitor the nature of the injected fluids with sufficient frequency to yield data representative of their characteristics. For EPA administered programs, this frequency shall be at least once within the first year of the authorization and thereafter when changes are made to the fluid.

(ii) The owner or operator shall observe the injection pressure, flow rate, and cumulative volume at least with the following frequencies:

(A) Weekly for produced fluid disposal operations;

(B) Monthly for enhanced recovery operations;

(C) Daily during the injection of liquid hydrocarbons and injection for withdrawal of stored hydrocarbons; and

(D) Daily during the injection phase of cyclic steam operations.

(iii) The owner or operator shall record one observation of injection pressure, flow rate and cumulative volume at reasonable intervals no greater than thirty days.

(iv) For enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells:

(A) The owner or operator shall demonstrate mechanical integrity pursuant to ยง 146.8 of this chapter at least once every five years during the life of the injection well.

(B) For EPA administered programs, the Regional Administrator by written notice may require the owner or operator to comply with a schedule describing when such demonstrations shall be made.

(C) For EPA administered programs, the owner or operator of any well required to be tested for mechanical integrity shall notify the Regional Administrator at least 30 days prior to any required mechanical integrity test. The Regional Administrator may allow a shorter notification period if it would be sufficient to enable EPA to witness the mechanical integrity testing if it chose. Notification may be in the form of a yearly or quarterly schedule of planned mechanical integrity tests, or it may be on an individual basis.

(v) The owner or operator of a hydrocarbon storage or enhanced recovery wells may monitor them by manifold monitoring on a field or project basis rather than on an individual well basis if such facilities consist of more than one injection well, operate with a common manifold, and provided the owner or operator demonstrates to the Director that manifold monitoring is comparable to individual well monitoring.

(3)(i) For Class III wells the owner or operator shall provide to the Director a qualitative analysis and ranges in concentrations of all constituents of injected fluids at least once within the first year of authorization and thereafter whenever the injection fluid is modified to the extent that the initial data are incorrect or incomplete. The owner or operator may request Federal confidentiality as specified in 40 CFR part 2. If the information is proprietary the owner or operator may in lieu of the ranges in concentrations choose to submit maximum concentrations which shall not be exceeded. In such a case the owner or operator shall retain records of the undisclosed concentrations and provide them upon request to the Regional Administrator as part of any enforcement investigation; and

(ii) Monitor injection pressure and either flow rate or volume semi-monthly, or meter and record daily injected and produced fluid volumes as appropriate;

(iii) Monitor the fluid level in the injection zone semi-monthly, where appropriate;

(iv) All Class III wells may be monitored on a field or project basis rather than an individual well basis by manifold monitoring. Manifold monitoring may be used in cases of facilities consisting of more than one injection well, operating with a common manifold. Separate monitoring systems for each well are not required provided the owner or operator demonstrates to the Director that manifold monitoring is comparable to individual well monitoring.
