
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Authorization by Permit
###### ยง 144.31 Application for a permit; authorization by permit.
####### Information requirements.

(e)All applicants for Class I, II, III, and V permits shall provide the following information to the Director, using the application form provided by the Director. Applicants for Class VI permits shall follow the criteria provided in ยง 146.82 of this chapter.

(1) The activities conducted by the applicant which require it to obtain permits under RCRA, UIC, the National Pollution Discharge Elimination system (NPDES) program under the Clean Water Act, or the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program under the Clean Air Act.

(2) Name, mailing address, and location of the facility for which the application is submitted.

(3) Up to four SIC codes which best reflect the principal products or services provided by the facility.

(4) The operator's name, address, telephone number, ownership status, and status as Federal, State, private, public, or other entity.

(5) Whether the facility is located on Indian lands.

(6) A listing of all permits or construction approvals received or applied for under any of the following programs:

(i) Hazardous Waste Management program under RCRA.

(ii) UIC program under SDWA.

(iii) NPDES program under CWA.

(iv) Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program under the Clean Air Act.

(v) Nonattainment program under the Clean Air Act.

(vi) National Emission Standards for Hazardous Pollutants (NESHAPS) preconstruction approval under the Clean Air Act.

(vii) Ocean dumping permits under the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuaries Act.

(viii) Dredge and fill permits under section 404 of CWA.

(ix) Other relevant environmental permits, including State permits.

(7) A topographic map (or other map if a topographic map is unavailable) extending one mile beyond the property boundaries of the source depicting the facility and each of its intake and discharge structures; each of its hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facilities; each well where fluids from the facility are injected underground; and those wells, springs, and other surface water bodies, and drinking water wells listed in public records or otherwise known to the applicant within a quarter mile of the facility property boundary.

(8) A brief description of the nature of the business.

(9) For EPA-administered programs, the applicant shall identify and submit on a list with the permit application the names and addresses of all owners of record of land within one-quarter mile of the facility boundary. This requirement may be waived by the Regional Administrator where the site is located in a populous area and the Regional Administrator determines that the requirement would be impracticable.

(10) A plugging and abandonment plan that meets the requirements of ยง 146.10 of this chapter and is acceptable to the Director.
