
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Permit Conditions
###### § 144.51 Conditions applicable to all permits.
####### Requirements prior to commencing injection.

(m)Except for all new wells authorized by an area permit under § 144.33(c), a new injection well may not commence injection until construction is complete, and

(1) The permittee has submitted notice of completion of construction to the Director; and

(2)(i) The Director has inspected or otherwise reviewed the new injection well and finds it is in compliance with the conditions of the permit; or

(ii) The permittee has not received notice form the Director of his or her intent to inspect or otherwise review the new injection well within 13 days of the date of the notice in paragraph (m)(1) of this section, in which case prior inspection or review is waived and the permittee may commence injection. The Director shall include in his notice a reasonable time period in which he shall inspect the well.

(n) The permittee shall notify the Director at such times as the permit requires before conversion or abandonment of the well or in the case of area permits before closure of the project.

(o) A Class I, II or III permit shall include and a Class V permit may include conditions which meet the applicable requirements of § 146.10 of this chapter to ensure that plugging and abandonment of the well will not allow the movement of fluids into or between USDWs. Where the plan meets the requirements of § 146.10 of this chapter, the Director shall incorporate the plan into the permit as a permit condition. Where the Director's review of an application indicates that the permittee's plan is inadequate, the Director may require the applicant to revise the plan, prescribe conditions meeting the requirements of this paragraph, or deny the permit. A Class VI permit shall include conditions which meet the requirements set forth in § 146.92 of this chapter. Where the plan meets the requirements of § 146.92 of this chapter, the Director shall incorporate it into the permit as a permit condition. For purposes of this paragraph, temporary or intermittent cessation of injection operations is not abandonment.
