
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Permit Conditions
###### § 144.52 Establishing permit conditions.
####### Financial responsibility.

(7)(i) The permittee, including the transferor of a permit, is required to demonstrate and maintain financial responsibility and resources to close, plug, and abandon the underground injection operation in a manner prescribed by the Director until:

(A) The well has been plugged and abandoned in accordance with an approved plugging and abandonment plan pursuant to §§ 144.51(o), 146.10, and 146.92 of this chapter, and submitted a plugging and abandonment report pursuant to § 144.51(p); or

(B) The well has been converted in compliance with the requirements of § 144.51(n); or

(C) The transferor of a permit has received notice from the Director that the owner or operator receiving transfer of the permit, the new permittee, has demonstrated financial responsibility for the well.

(ii) The permittee shall show evidence of such financial responsibility to the Director by the submission of a surety bond, or other adequate assurance, such as a financial statement or other materials acceptable to the Director. For EPA administered programs, the Regional Administrator may on a periodic basis require the holder of a lifetime permit to submit an estimate of the resources needed to plug and abandon the well revised to reflect inflation of such costs, and a revised demonstration of financial responsibility, if necessary. The owner or operator of a well injecting hazardous waste must comply with the financial responsibility requirements of subpart F of this part. For Class VI wells, the permittee shall show evidence of such financial responsibility to the Director by the submission of a qualifying instrument (see § 146.85(a) of this chapter), such as a financial statement or other materials acceptable to the Director. The owner or operator of a Class VI well must comply with the financial responsibility requirements set forth in § 146.85 of this chapter.
