
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Financial Responsibility: Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells
###### § 144.62 Cost estimate for plugging and abandonment.

(a) The owner or operator must prepare a written estimate, in current dollars, of the cost of plugging the injection well in accordance with the plugging and abandonment plan as specified in §§ 144.28 and 144.51. The plugging and abandonment cost estimate must equal the cost of plugging and abandonment at the point in the facility's operating life when the extent and manner of its operation would making plugging and abandonment the most expensive, as indicated by its plugging and abandonment plan.

(b) The owner or operator must adjust the plugging and abandonment cost estimate for inflation within 30 days after each anniversary of the date on which the first plugging and abandonment cost estimate was prepared. The adjustment must be made as specified in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, using an inflation factor derived from the annual Oil and Gas Field Equipment Cost Index. The inflation factor is the result of dividing the latest published annual Index by the Index for the previous year.

(1) The first adjustment is made by multiplying the plugging and abandonment cost estimate by the inflation factor. The result is the adjusted plugging and abandonment cost estimate.

(2) Subsequent adjustments are made by multiplying the latest adjusted plugging and abandonment cost estimate by the latest inflation factor.

(c) The owner or operator must revise the plugging and abandonment cost estimate whenever a change in the plugging and abandonment plan increases the cost of plugging and abandonment. The revised plugging and abandonment cost estimate must be adjusted for inflation as specified in § 144.62(b).

(d) The owner or operator must keep the following at the facility during the operating life of the facility: the latest plugging and abandonment cost estimate prepared in accordance with § 144.62 (a) and (c) and, when this estimate has been adjusted in accordance with § 144.62(b), the latest adjusted plugging and abandonment cost estimate.
