
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Financial Responsibility: Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells
###### § 144.63 Financial assurance for plugging and abandonment.
####### Surety bond guaranteeing payment into a plugging and abandonment trust fund.

(b)(1) An owner or operator must satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining a surety bond which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph and submitting the bond to the Regional Administrator with the application for a permit or for approval to operate under rule. The bond must be effective before the initial injection of hazardous waste. The surety company issuing the trust must, at a minimum, be among those listed as acceptable sureties on Federal bonds in Circular 570 of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.

(2) The wording of the surety bond must be identical to the wording in § 144.70(b).

(3) The owner or operator who uses a surety bond to satisfy the requirements of this section must also establish a standby trust fund. Under the terms of the bond, all payments made thereunder will be deposited by the surety directly into the standby trust fund in accordance with instructions from the Regional Administrator. This standby trust fund must meet the requirements specified in § 144.63(a), except that:

(i) An originally signed duplicate of the trust agreement must be submitted to the Regional Administrator with the surety bond; and

(ii) Until the standby trust fund is funded pursuant to the requirements of this section, the following are not required by these requirements:

(A) Payments into the trust fund as specified in § 144.63(a);

(B) Updating of Schedule A of the trust agreement [see § 144.70(a)] to show current plugging and abandonment cost estimates;

(C) Annual valuations as required by the trust agreement; and

(D) Notices of nonpayment as required by the trust agreement.

(4) The bond must guarantee that the owner or operator will:

(i) Fund the standby trust fund in an amount equal to the penal sum of the bond before beginning of plugging and abandonment of the injection well; or

(ii) Fund the standby trust fund in an amount equal to the penal sum within 15 days after an order to begin plugging and abandonment is issued by the Regional Administrator or a U.S. district court or other court of competent jurisdiction; or

(iii) Provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section, and obtain the Regional Administrator's written approval of the assurance provided, within 90 days after receipt by both the owner or operator and the Regional Administrator of a notice of cancellation of the bond from the surety.

(5) Under the terms of the bond, the surety will become liable on the bond obligation when the owner or operator fails to perform as guaranteed by the bond.

(6) The penal sum of the bond must be in amount at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate, except as provided in § 144.63(g).

(7) Whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate increases to an amount greater than the penal sum, the owner or operator, within 60 days after the increase, must either cause the penal sum to be increased to an amount at least equal to the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate and submit evidence of such increase to the Regional Administrator, or obtain other financial assurance as specified in this section to cover the increase. Whenever the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate decreases, the penal sum may be reduced to the amount of the current plugging and abandonment cost estimate following written approval by the Regional Administrator.

(8) Under the terms of the bond, the surety may cancel the bond by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner or operator and to the Regional Administrator. Cancellation may not occur, however, during 120 days beginning on the date of the receipt of the notice of cancellation by both owner or operator and the Regional Administrator as evidenced by the returned receipts.

(9) The owner or operator may cancel the bond if the Regional Administrator has given prior written consent based on his receipt of evidence of alternate financial assurance as specified in this section.
