
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Requirements for Owners and Operators of Class V Injection Wells
###### Requirements for All Class V Injection Wells
####### ยง 144.83 Do I need to notify anyone about my Class V injection well?
######## Information in response to requests.

(b)If you are in one of the DI Programs listed in the table above, the UIC Program Director may require you to submit other information believed necessary to protect underground sources of drinking water.

(1) Such information requirements may include, but are not limited to:

(i) Perform ground water monitoring and periodically submit your monitoring results;

(ii) Analyze the fluids you inject and periodically submit the results of your analyses;

(iii) Describe the geologic layers through which and into which you are injecting; and

(iv) Conduct other analyses and submit other information, if needed to protect underground sources of drinking water.

(2) If the Director requires this other information, he or she will request it from you in writing, along with a brief statement on why the information is required. This written notification also will tell you when to submit the information.

(3) You are prohibited from using your injection well if you fail to comply with the written request within the time frame specified. You can start injecting again only if you receive a permit.
