
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Requirements for Owners and Operators of Class V Injection Wells
###### Requirements for All Class V Injection Wells
####### § 144.84 Do I need to get a permit?
######## Circumstances in which permits or other actions are required.

(b)If you fit into one of the categories listed below, your Class V well is no longer authorized by rule. This means that you have to either get a permit or close your injection well. You can find out by contacting the UIC Program Director in your State or EPA Region if this is the case. Subpart D of this part tells you how to apply for a permit and describes other aspects of the permitting process. Subpart E of this part outlines some of the requirements that apply to you if you get a permit.

(1) You fail to comply with the prohibition of fluid movement standard in § 144.12(a) and described in § 144.82(a) (in which case, you have to get a permit, close your well, and/or comply with other conditions determined by the UIC Program Director in your State or EPA Region);

(2) You own or operate a Class V large-capacity cesspool (in which case, you must close your well as specified in the additional requirements below) or a Class V motor vehicle waste disposal well in a ground water protection area or sensitive ground water area (in which case, you must either close your well or get a permit as specified in the additional requirements in this subsection). New motor vehicle waste disposal wells and new cesspools are prohibited as of April 5, 2000;

(3) You are specifically required by the UIC Program Director in your State or EPA Region to get a permit (in which case, rule authorization expires upon the effective date of the permit issued, or you are prohibited from injecting into your well upon:

(i) Failure to submit a permit application in a timely manner as specified in a notice from the Director; or

(ii) Upon the effective date of permit denial);

(4) You have failed to submit inventory information to your UIC Program Director, as described in § 144.83(a) (in which case, you are prohibited from injecting into your well until you comply with the inventory requirements); or

(5) If you are in a DI State and you received a request from your UIC Program Director for additional information under § 144.83(b), and have failed to comply with the request in a timely manner (in which case, you are prohibited from injecting into your well until you get a permit).
