
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 144 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Requirements for Owners and Operators of Class V Injection Wells
###### Additional Requirements for Class V Large-Capacity Cesspools and Motor Vehicle Waste Disposal Wells
####### ยง 144.87 How does the identification of ground water protection areas and other sensitive ground water areas affect me?
######## How to find out if your well is in a ground water protection area or sensitive ground water area.

(d)States are required to make their local source water assessments widely available to the public through a variety of methods after the assessments are complete. You can find out if your Class V well is in a ground water protection area by contacting the State agency responsible for the State Drinking Water Source Assessment and Protection Program in your area. You may call the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 1-800-426-4791 to find out who to call in your State for this information. The State office responsible for implementing the Drinking Water Source Assessment and Protection Program makes the final and official determination of boundaries for ground water protection areas. Because States that choose to delineate other sensitive ground water areas are also required to make the information on these areas accessible to the public, they may do so in a manner similar to the process used by the States in publicizing the EPA approved Drinking Water Source Assessment and Protection Program. You can find out if your Class V well is in an other sensitive ground water area by contacting the State or Federal agency responsible for the Underground Injection Control Program. You may call the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 1-800-426-4791 to find out who to call for information.
