
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 145 - STATE UIC PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart C - State Program Submissions
###### ยง 145.23 Program description.
####### For Class V programs only.

(12)A description of and a schedule for the State's plan to identify and delineate other sensitive ground water areas. States should consider geologic and hydrogeologic settings, ground water flow and occurrence, topographic and geographic features, depth to ground water, significance as a drinking water source, prevailing land use practices and any other existing information relating to the susceptibility of ground water to contamination from Class V injection wells when developing their plan. Within the schedule for the plan, States must commit to: completing all delineations of other sensitive ground water areas by no later than Jan. 1, 2004; making these delineation available to the public; implementing the Class V regulations, effective April 5, 2000, in these delineated areas by no later than January 1, 2007. Alternately, if a State chooses not to identify other sensitive ground water areas, the requirements for motor vehicle waste disposal wells would apply statewide by January 1, 2007.

(13) For Class VI programs, a description of the procedure whereby the Director must notify, in writing, any States, Tribes, and Territories of any permit applications for geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide wherein the area of review crosses State, Tribal, or Territory boundaries, resulting in the need for trans-boundary coordination related to an injection operation.
