
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 146.5 Classification of injection wells.
####### Class V.

(e)Injection wells not included in Class I, II, III, IV or VI. Specific types of Class V injection wells are also described in 40 CFR 144.81. Class V wells include:

(1) Air conditioning return flow wells used to return to the supply aquifer the water used for heating or cooling in a heat pump;

(2) Cesspools including multiple dwelling, community or regional cesspools, or other devices that receive wastes which have an open bottom and sometimes have perforated sides. The UIC requirements do not apply to single family residential cesspools nor to non-residential cesspools which receive solely sanitary wastes and have the capacity to serve fewer than 20 persons a day.

(3) Cooling water return flow wells used to inject water previously used for cooling;

(4) Drainage wells used to drain surface fluid, primarily storm runoff, into a subsurface formation;

(5) Dry wells used for the injection of wastes into a subsurface formation;

(6) Recharge wells used to replenish the water in an aquifer;

(7) Salt water intrusion barrier wells used to inject water into a fresh water aquifer to prevent the intrusion of salt water into the fresh water;

(8) Sand backfill and other backfill wells used to inject a mixture of water and sand, mill tailings or other solids into mined out portions of subsurface mines whether what is injected is a radioactive waste or not.

(9) Septic system wells used to inject the waste or effluent from a multiple dwelling, business establishment, community or regional business establishment septic tank. The UIC requirements do not apply to single family residential septic system wells, nor to non-residential septic system wells which are used solely for the disposal of sanitary waste and have the capacity to serve fewer than 20 persons a day.

(10) Subsidence control wells (not used for the purpose of oil or natural gas production) used to inject fluids into a non-oil or gas producing zone to reduce or eliminate subsidence associated with the overdraft of fresh water;

(11) Radioactive waste disposal wells other than Class IV;

(12) Injection wells associated with the recovery of geothermal energy for heating, aquaculture and production of electric power.

(13) Wells used for solution mining of conventional mines such as stopes leaching;

(14) Wells used to inject spent brine into the same formation from which it was withdrawn after extraction of halogens or their salts;

(15) Injection wells used in experimental technologies.

(16) Injection wells used for in situ recovery of lignite, coal, tar sands, and oil shale.
