
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class II Wells
###### § 146.24 Information to be considered by the Director.

This section sets forth the information which must be considered by the Director in authorizing Class II wells. Certain maps, cross-sections, tabulations of wells within the area of review, and other data may be included in the application by reference provided they are current, readily available to the Director (for example, in the permitting agency's files) and sufficiently identified to be retrieved. In cases where EPA issues the permit, all the information in this section is to be submitted to the Administrator.

(a) Prior to the issuance of a permit for an existing Class II well to operate or the construction or conversion of a new Class II well the Director shall consider the following:

(1) Information required in 40 CFR 144.31 and 144.31(g);

(2) A map showing the injection well or project area for which a permit is sought and the applicable area of review. Within the area of review, the map must show the number or name and location of all existing producing wells, injection wells, abandoned wells, dry holes, and water wells. The map may also show surface bodies of waters, mines (surface and subsurface), quarries and other pertinent surface features including residences and roads, and faults if known or suspended. Only information of public record and pertinent information known to the applicant is required to be included on this map. This requirement does not apply to existing Class II wells; and

(3) A tabulation of data reasonably available from public records or otherwise known to the applicant on all wells within the area of review included on the map required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section which penetrate the proposed injection zone or, in the case of Class II wells operating over the fracture pressure of the injection formation, all known wells within the area of review which penetrate formations affected by the increase in pressure. Such data shall include a description of each well's type, construction, date drilled, location, depth, record of plugging and complete, and any additional information the Director may require. In cases where the information would be repetitive and the wells are of similar age, type, and construction the Director may elect to only require data on a representative number of wells. This requirement does not apply to existing Class II wells.

(4) Proposed operating data:

(i) Average and maximum daily rate and volume of fluids to be injected.

(ii) Average and maximum injection pressure; and

(iii) Source and an appropriate analysis of the chemical and physical characteristics of the injection fluid.

(5) Appropriate geological data on the injection zone and confining zone including lithologic description, geological name, thickness and depth;

(6) Geologic name and depth to bottom of all underground sources of drinking water which may be affected by the injection;

(7) Schematic or other appropriate drawings of the surface and subsurface construction details of the well;

(8) In the case of new injection wells the corrective action proposed to be taken by the applicant under 40 CFR 122.44;

(9) A certificate that the applicant has assured through a performance bond or other appropriate means, the resources necessary to close plug or abandon the well as required by 40 CFR 122.42(g);

(b) In addition the Director may consider the following:

(1) Proposed formation testing program to obtain the information required by § 146.22(g);

(2) Proposed stimulation program;

(3) Proposed injection procedure;

(4) Proposed contingency plans, if any, to cope with well failures so as to prevent migration of contaminating fluids into an underground source of drinking water;

(5) Plans for meeting the monitoring requirements of § 146.23(b).

(c) Prior to granting approval for the operation of a Class II well the Director shall consider the following information:

(1) All available logging and testing program data on the well;

(2) A demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.8;

(3) The anticipated maximum pressure and flow rate at which the permittee will operate.

(4) The results of the formation testing program;

(5) The actual injection procedure; and

(6) For new wells the status of corrective action on defective wells in the area of review.

(d) Prior to granting approval for the plugging and abandonment of a Class II well the Director shall consider the following information:

(1) The type, and number of plugs to be used;

(2) The placement of each plug including the elevation of top and bottom;

(3) The type, grade, and quantity of cement to be used;

(4) The method of placement of the plugs; and

(5) The procedure to be used to meet the requirements of § 146.10(c).
