
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class III Wells
###### § 146.34 Information to be considered by the Director.

This section sets forth the information which must be considered by the Director in authorizing Class III wells. Certain maps, cross sections, tabulations of wells within the area of review, and other data may be included in the application by reference provided they are current, readily available to the Director (for example, in the permitting agency's files) and sufficiently identified to be retrieved. In cases where EPA issues the permit, all the information in this section must be submitted to the Administrator.

(a) Prior to the issuance of a permit for an existing Class III well or area to operate or the construction of a new Class III well the Director shall consider the following:

(1) Information required in 40 CFR 144.31 and 144.31(g);

(2) A map showing the injection well or project area for which a permit is sought and the applicable area of review. Within the area of review, the map must show the number or name and location of all existing producing wells, injection wells, abandoned wells, dry holes, public water systems and water wells. The map may also show surface bodies of waters, mines (surface and subsurface), quarries and other pertinent surface features including residences and roads, and faults if known or suspected. Only information of public record and pertinent information known to the applicant is required to be included on this map.

(3) A tabulation of data reasonably available from public records or otherwise known to the applicant on wells within the area of review included on the map required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section which penetrate the proposed injection zone. Such data shall include a description of each well's type, construction, date drilled, location, depth, record of plugging and completion, and any additional information the Director may require. In cases where the information would be repetitive and the wells are of similar age, type, and construction the Director may elect to only require data on a representative number of wells.

(4) Maps and cross sections indicating the vertical limits of all underground sources of drinking water within the area of review, their position relative to the injection formation, and the direction of water movement, where known, in every underground source of drinking water which may be affected by the proposed injection:

(5) Maps and cross sections detailing the geologic structure of the local area;

(6) Generalized map and cross sections illustrating the regional geologic setting;

(7) Proposed operating data:

(i) Average and maximum daily rate and volume of fluid to be injected;

(ii) Average and maximum injection pressure; and

(iii) Qualitative analysis and ranges in concentrations of all constituents of injected fluids. The applicant may request Federal confidentiality as specified in 40 CFR part 2. If the information is proprietary an applicant may, in lieu of the ranges in concentrations, choose to submit maximum concentrations which shall not be exceeded. In such a case the applicant shall retain records of the undisclosed concentrations and provide them upon request to the Director as part of any enforcement investigation.

(8) Proposed formation testing program to obtain the information required by § 146.32(c).

(9) Proposed stimulation program;

(10) Proposed injection procedure;

(11) Schematic or other appropriate drawings of the surface and subsurface construction details of the well;

(12) Plans (including maps) for meeting the monitoring requirements of § 146.33(b);

(13) Expected changes in pressure, native fluid displacement, direction of movement of injection fluid;

(14) Contingency plans to cope with all shut-ins or well failures so as to prevent the migration of contaminating fluids into underground sources of drinking water;

(15) A certificate that the applicant has assured, through a performance bond, or other appropriate means, the resources necessary to close, plug, or abandon the well as required by 40 CFR 144.52(a)(7) and

(16) The corrective action proposed to be taken under 40 CFR 144.55.

(b) Prior to granting approval for the operation of a Class III well the Director shall consider the following information:

(1) All available logging and testing data on the well;

(2) A satisfactory demonstration of mechanical integrity for all new wells and for all existing salt solution wells pursuant to § 146.08;

(3) The anticipated maximum pressure and flow rate at which the permittee will operate;

(4) The results of the formation testing program;

(5) The actual injection procedures; and

(6) The status of corrective action on defective wells in the area of review.

(c) Prior to granting approval for the plugging and abandonment of a Class III well the Director shall consider the following information:

(1) The type and number of plugs to be used;

(2) The placement of each plug including the elevation of the top and bottom;

(3) The type, grade, and quantity of cement to be used;

(4) The method of placement of the plugs; and

(5) The procedure to be used to meet the requirements of § 146.10(c).
