
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class III Wells
###### § 146.33 Operating, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
####### Monitoring requirements.

(b)Monitoring requirements shall, at a minimum, specify:

(1) Monitoring of the nature of injected fluids with sufficient frequency to yield representative data on its characteristics. Whenever the injection fluid is modified to the extent that the analysis required by § 146.34(a)(7)(iii) is incorrect or incomplete, a new analysis as required by § 146.34(a)(7)(iii) shall be provided to the Director.

(2) Monitoring of injection pressure and either flow rate or volume semi-monthly, or metering and daily recording of injected and produced fluid volumes as appropriate.

(3) Demonstration of mechanical integrity pursuant to § 146.08 at least once every five years during the life of the well for salt solution mining.

(4) Monitoring of the fluid level in the injection zone semi-monthly, where appropriate and monitoring of the parameters chosen to measure water quality in the monitoring wells required by § 146.32(e), semi-monthly.

(5) Quarterly monitoring of wells required by § 146.32(g).

(6) All Class III wells may be monitored on a field or project basis rather than an individual well basis by manifold monitoring. Manifold monitoring may be used in cases of facilities consisting of more than one injection well, operating with a common manifold. Separate monitoring systems for each well are not required provided the owner/operator demonstrates that manifold monitoring is comparable to individual well monitoring.
