
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells
###### § 146.64 Corrective action for wells in the area of review.

For the purposes of Class I hazardous waste wells, this section shall apply to the exclusion of §§ 144.55 and 146.07.

(a) The owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste well shall as part of the permit application submit a plan to the Director outlining the protocol used to:

(1) Identify all wells penetrating the confining zone or injection zone within the area of review; and

(2) Determine whether wells are adequately completed or plugged.

(b) The owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste well shall identify the location of all wells within the area of review that penetrate the injection zone or the confining zone and shall submit as required in § 146.70(a):

(1) A tabulation of all wells within the area of review that penetrate the injection zone or the confining zone; and

(2) A description of each well or type of well and any records of its plugging or completion.

(c) For wells that the Director determines are improperly plugged, completed, or abandoned, or for which plugging or completion information is unavailable, the applicant shall also submit a plan consisting of such steps or modification as are necessary to prevent movement of fluids into or between USDWs. Where the plan is adequate, the Director shall incorporate it into the permit as a condition. Where the Director's review of an application indicates that the permittee's plan is inadequate (based at a minimum on the factors in paragraph (e) of this section), the Director shall:

(1) Require the applicant to revise the plan;

(2) Prescribe a plan for corrective action as a condition of the permit; or

(3) Deny the application.

(d) Requirements:

(1) Existing injection wells. Any permit issued for an existing Class I hazardous waste injection well requiring corrective action other than pressure limitations shall include a compliance schedule requiring any corrective action accepted or prescribed under paragraph (c) of this section. Any such compliance schedule shall provide for compliance no later than 2 years following issuance of the permit and shall require observance of appropriate pressure limitations under paragraph (d)(3) until all other corrective action measures have been implemented.

(2) New injection wells. No owner or operator of a new Class I hazardous waste injection well may begin injection until all corrective actions required under this section have been taken.

(3) The Director may require pressure limitations in lieu of plugging. If pressure limitations are used in lieu of plugging, the Director shall require as a permit condition that injection pressure be so limited that pressure in the injection zone at the site of any improperly completed or abandoned well within the area of review would not be sufficient to drive fluids into or between USDWs. This pressure limitation shall satisfy the corrective action requirement. Alternatively, such injection pressure limitation may be made part of a compliance schedule and may be required to be maintained until all other required corrective actions have been implemented.

(e) In determining the adequacy of corrective action proposed by the applicant under paragraph (c) of this section and in determining the additional steps needed to prevent fluid movement into and between USDWs, the following criteria and factors shall be considered by the Director:

(1) Nature and volume of injected fluid;

(2) Nature of native fluids or byproducts of injection;

(3) Geology;

(4) Hydrology;

(5) History of the injection operation;

(6) Completion and plugging records;

(7) Closure procedures in effect at the time the well was closed;

(8) Hydraulic connections with USDWs;

(9) Reliability of the procedures used to identify abandoned wells; and

(10) Any other factors which might affect the movement of fluids into or between USDWs.
