
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells
###### ยง 146.68 Testing and monitoring requirements.

Testing and monitoring requirements shall at a minimum include:

(a) Monitoring of the injected wastes. (1) The owner or operator shall develop and follow an approved written waste analysis plan that describes the procedures to be carried out to obtain a detailed chemical and physical analysis of a representative sample of the waste, including the quality assurance procedures used. At a minimum, the plan shall specify:

(i) The paramenters for which the waste will be analyzed and the rationale for the selection of these parameters;

(ii) The test methods that will be used to test for these parameters; and

(iii) The sampling method that will be used to obtain a representative sample of the waste to be analyzed.

(2) The owner or operator shall repeat the analysis of the injected wastes as described in the waste analysis plan at frequencies specified in the waste analysis plan and when process or operating changes occur that may significantly alter the characteristics of the waste stream.

(3) The owner or operator shall conduct continuous or periodic monitoring of selected parameters as required by the Director.

(4) The owner or operator shall assure that the plan remains accurate and the analyses remain representative.

(b) Hydrogeologic compatibility determination. The owner or operator shall submit information demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Director that the waste stream and its anticipated reaction products will not alter the permeability, thickness or other relevant characteristics of the confining or injection zones such that they would no longer meet the requirements specified in ยง 146.62.

(c) Compatibility of well materials. (1) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the waste stream will be compatible with the well materials with which the waste is expected to come into contact, and submit to the Director a description of the methodology used to make that determination. Compatibility for purposes of this requirement is established if contact with injected fluids will not cause the well materials to fail to satisfy any design requirement imposed under ยง 146.65(b).

(2) The Director shall require continuous corrosion monitoring of the construction materials used in the well for wells injecting corrosive waste, and may require such monitoring for other waste, by:

(i) Placing coupons of the well construction materials in contact with the waste stream; or

(ii) Routing the waste stream through a loop constructed with the material used in the well; or

(iii) Using an alternative method approved by the Director.

(3) If a corrosion monitoring program is required:

(i) The test shall use materials identical to those used in the construction of the well, and such materials must be continuously exposed to the operating pressures and temperatures (measured at the well head) and flow rates of the injection operation; and

(ii) The owner or operator shall monitor the materials for loss of mass, thickness, cracking, pitting and other signs of corrosion on a quarterly basis to ensure that the well components meet the minimum standards for material strength and performance set forth in ยง 146.65(b).
