
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells
###### ยง 146.65 Construction requirements.
####### Casing and Cementing of New Wells.

(c)(1) Casing and cement used in the construction of each newly drilled well shall be designed for the life expectancy of the well, including the post-closure care period. The casing and cementing program shall be designed to prevent the movement of fluids into or between USDWs, and to prevent potential leaks of fluids from the well. In determining and specifying casing and cementing requirements, the Director shall consider the following information as required by ยง 146.70:

(i) Depth to the injection zone;

(ii) Injection pressure, external pressure, internal pressure and axial loading;

(iii) Hole size;

(iv) Size and grade of all casing strings (well thickness, diameter, nominal weight, length, joint specification and construction material);

(v) Corrosiveness of injected fluid, formation fluids and temperature;

(vi) Lithology of injection and confining zones;

(vii) Type or grade of cement; and

(viii) Quantity and chemical composition of the injected fluid.

(2) One surface casing string shall, at a minimum, extend into the confining bed below the lowest formation that contains a USDW and be cemented by circulating cement from the base of the casing to the surface, using a minimum of 120% of the calculated annual volume. The Director may require more than 120% when the geology or other circumstances warrant it.

(3) At least one long string casing, using a sufficient number of centralizers, shall extend to the injection zone and shall be cemented by circulating cement to the surface in one or more stages:

(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure; and

(ii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to fill the annular space. The Director may require more than 120% when the geology or other circumstances warrant it.

(4) Circulation of cement may be accomplished by staging. The Director may approve an alternative method of cementing in cases where the cement cannot be recirculated to the surface, provided the owner or operator can demonstrate by using logs that the cement is continuous and does not allow fluid movement behind the well bore.

(5) Casings, including any casing connections, must be rated to have sufficient structural strength to withstand, for the design life of the well:

(i) The maximum burst and collapse pressures which may be experienced during the construction, operation and closure of the well; and

(ii) The maximum tensile stress which may be experienced at any point along the length of the casing during the construction, operation, and closure of the well.

(6) At a minimum, cement and cement additivies must be of sufficient quality and quantity to maintain integrity over the design life of the well.
