
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells
###### ยง 146.71 Closure.
####### Closure Plan.

(a)The owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste injection well shall prepare, maintain, and comply with a plan for closure of the well that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section and is acceptable to the Director. The obligation to implement the closure plan survives the termination of a permit or the cessation of injection activities. The requirement to maintain and implement an approved plan is directly enforceable regardless of whether the requirement is a condition of the permit.

(1) The owner or operator shall submit the plan as a part of the permit application and, upon approval by the Director, such plan shall be a condition of any permit issued.

(2) The owner or operator shall submit any proposed significant revision to the method of closure reflected in the plan for approval by the Director no later than the date on which notice of closure is required to be submitted to the Director under paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) The plan shall assure financial responsibility as required in ยง 144.52(a)(7).

(4) The plan shall include the following information:

(i) The type and number of plugs to be used;

(ii) The placement of each plug including the elevation of the top and bottom of each plug;

(iii) The type and grade and quantity of material to be used in plugging;

(iv) The method of placement of the plugs;

(v) Any proposed test or measure to be made;

(vi) The amount, size, and location (by depth) of casing and any other materials to be left in the well;

(vii) The method and location where casing is to be parted, if applicable;

(viii) The procedure to be used to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(5) of this section;

(ix) The estimated cost of closure; and

(x) Any proposed test or measure to be made.

(5) The Director may modify a closure plan following the procedures of ยง 124.5.

(6) An owner or operator of a Class I hazardous waste injection well who ceases injection temporarily, may keep the well open provided he:

(i) Has received authorization from the Director; and

(ii) Has described actions or procedures, satisfactory to the Director, that the owner or operator will take to ensure that the well will not endanger USDWs during the period of temporary disuse. These actions and procedures shall include compliance with the technical requirements applicable to active injection wells unless waived by the Director.

(7) The owner or operator of a well that has ceased operations for more than two years shall notify the Director 30 days prior to resuming operation of the well.
