
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class I Hazardous Waste Injection Wells
###### ยง 146.71 Closure.
####### Standards for well closure.

(d)(1) Prior to closing the well, the owner or operator shall observe and record the pressure decay for a time specified by the Director. The Director shall analyze the pressure decay and the transient pressure observations conducted pursuant to ยง 146.68(e)(1)(i) and determine whether the injection activity has conformed with predicted values.

(2) Prior to well closure, appropriate mechanical integrity testing shall be conducted to ensure the integrity of that portion of the long string casing and cement that will be left in the ground after closure. Testing methods may include:

(i) Pressure tests with liquid or gas;

(ii) Radioactive tracer surveys;

(iii) Noise, temperature, pipe evaluation, or cement bond logs; and

(iv) Any other test required by the Director.

(3) Prior to well closure, the well shall be flushed with a buffer fluid.

(4) Upon closure, a Class I hazardous waste well shall be plugged with cement in a manner that will not allow the movement of fluids into or between USDWs.

(5) Placement of the cement plugs shall be accomplished by one of the following:

(i) The Balance Method;

(ii) The Dump Bailer Method;

(iii) The Two-Plug Method; or

(iv) An alternate method, approved by the Director, that will reliably provide a comparable level of protection.

(6) Each plug used shall be appropriately tagged and tested for seal and stability before closure is completed.

(7) The well to be closed shall be in a state of static equilibrium with the mud weight equalized top to bottom, either by circulating the mud in the well at least once or by a comparable method prescribed by the Director, prior to the placement of the cement plug(s).
