
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class VI Wells
###### § 146.85 Financial responsibility.
####### i.e.,

(v) Self Insurance (Financial Test and Corporate Guarantee).

(vi) Escrow Account.

(vii) Any other instrument(s) satisfactory to the Director.

(2) The qualifying instrument(s) must be sufficient to cover the cost of:

(i) Corrective action (that meets the requirements of § 146.84);

(ii) Injection well plugging (that meets the requirements of § 146.92);

(iii) Post injection site care and site closure (that meets the requirements of § 146.93); and

(iv) Emergency and remedial response (that meets the requirements of § 146.94).

(3) The financial responsibility instrument(s) must be sufficient to address endangerment of underground sources of drinking water.

(4) The qualifying financial responsibility instrument(s) must comprise protective conditions of coverage.

(i) Protective conditions of coverage must include at a minimum cancellation, renewal, and continuation provisions, specifications on when the provider becomes liable following a notice of cancellation if there is a failure to renew with a new qualifying financial instrument, and requirements for the provider to meet a minimum rating, minimum capitalization, and ability to pass the bond rating when applicable.
