
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 146 - UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAM: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Criteria and Standards Applicable to Class VI Wells
###### § 146.91 Reporting requirements.
####### i.e.,

(3) Any triggering of a shut-off system (down-hole or at the surface);

(4) Any failure to maintain mechanical integrity; or.

(5) Pursuant to compliance with the requirement at § 146.90(h) for surface air/soil gas monitoring or other monitoring technologies, if required by the Director, any release of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere or biosphere.

(d) Owners or operators must notify the Director in writing 30 days in advance of:

(1) Any planned well workover;

(2) Any planned stimulation activities, other than stimulation for formation testing conducted under § 146.82; and

(3) Any other planned test of the injection well conducted by the permittee.

(e) Regardless of whether a State has primary enforcement responsibility, owners or operators must submit all required reports, submittals, and notifications under subpart H of this part to EPA in an electronic format approved by EPA.

(f) Records shall be retained by the owner or operator as follows:

(1) All data collected under § 146.82 for Class VI permit applications shall be retained throughout the life of the geologic sequestration project and for 10 years following site closure.

(2) Data on the nature and composition of all injected fluids collected pursuant to § 146.90(a) shall be retained until 10 years after site closure. The Director may require the owner or operator to deliver the records to the Director at the conclusion of the retention period.

(3) Monitoring data collected pursuant to § 146.90(b) through (i) shall be retained for 10 years after it is collected.

(4) Well plugging reports, post-injection site care data, including, if appropriate, data and information used to develop the demonstration of the alternative post-injection site care timeframe, and the site closure report collected pursuant to requirements at §§ 146.93(f) and (h) shall be retained for 10 years following site closure.

(5) The Director has authority to require the owner or operator to retain any records required in this subpart for longer than 10 years after site closure.
