
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Arkansas
###### ยง 147.200 State-administered program - Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(a)The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Arkansas. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.

(1) Arkansas Water and Air Pollution Control Act, Act 472 of 1949 as amended, Arkansas Statutes Annotated sections 82-1901 through 82-1943 (1976);

(2) Act 105 of 1939, Arkansas Statutes Annotated sections 53-101 through 53-130 (1971 and Supp. 1981); Act 937 of 1979, Arkansas Statutes Annotated sections 53-1301 through 53-1320 (Supp. 1981); Act 523 of 1981;

(3) Arkansas Underground Injection Control Code, Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, promulgated January 22, 1982;

(4) General Rule and Regulations, Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission (Order No. 2-39, revised July 1972);

(5) Arkansas Hazardous Waste Management Code, Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, promulgated August 21, 1981.

(b) The Memorandum of Agreement and Addendum No. 1 to the Memorandum of Agreement, between EPA Region VI and the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology and the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 25, 1982.
