
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart I - Delaware
###### ยง 147.400 State-administered program.
####### Incorporation by reference.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Delaware. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 5l. Copies may be obtained at the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, 89 Kings Highway, P.O. Box 1401, Dover, Delaware, 19903. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 841 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19107, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(1) Delaware Environmental Protection Act, (Environmental Control) 7 Delaware Code Annotated, Chapter 60, Sections 6001-6060 (Revised 1974 and Cumm. Supp. 1988);

(2) State of Delaware Regulations Governing Underground Injection Control, parts 122, 124 and 146 (Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control), effective August 15, 1983.
