
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart R - Kansas
###### § 147.850 State-administered program - Class I, III, IV and V wells.
####### Incorporation by reference.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Kansas. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, Charles Curtis State Office Building, 1000 SW. Jackson, Topeka, Kansas 66612. Copies may be inspected at EPA Region 7, 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, Kansas 66219, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(1) Chapter 28, Article 46, Underground Injection Control Regulations, Kansas Administrative Regulations §§ 28-46-1 through 28-46-42 (1986 and Supp. 1987);

(2) Chapter 28, Article 43, Construction, operation, monitoring and abandonment of salt solution mining wells, Kansas Administrative Regulations §§ 28-43-1 through 28-43-10 (1986);

(3) Kansas Statutes Annotated §§ 65-161, 65-164 through 65-166a, 65-171d (1980 and Cumm. Supp. 1989).
