
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart S - Kentucky
###### § 147.902 Acquifer exemptions.

(a) This section identifies any aquifers or their portions exempted in accordance with §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter. These aquifers are not being proposed for exemption under the Commonwealth of Kentucky's primacy approval. Rather, the exempted aquifers listed below were previously approved while EPA had primary enforcement authority for the Class II UIC program in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and are included here for reference. Additional information pertinent to these exempted aquifers or their portions resides in EPA Region 4.

(1) The following eight aquifers (underground sources of drinking water) in the Commonwealth of Kentucky have been exempted in accordance with the provisions of §§ 144.7(b) and 146.4 of this chapter for Class II injection activities only: A portion of the Tar Springs sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.7261 and longitude -86.6914. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 280 feet.

(2) A portion of the Tar Springs sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.7294 and longitude -867212. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 249 feet.

(3) A portion of the Tar Springs sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.7055 and longitude -86.7177. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 210 feet.

(4) A portion of the Pennsylvanian Age sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.5402 and longitude -87.2551. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 1,050 feet.

(5) A portion of the Tar Springs sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.7301 and longitude -87.6922. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 240 feet.

(6) A portion of the Caseyville sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.5776 and longitude -87.1321. The formation had a true vertical depth from surface of 350 feet.

(7) A portion of the Caseyville sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.5778 and longitude -87.1379. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 1,080 feet.

(8) A portion of the Caseyville sandstone formation that has a quarter mile radius areal extent (125.6 acres) that is located at latitude 37.5652 and longitude -87.1222. The formation has a true vertical depth from surface of 1,060 feet.

(b) [Reserved]
