
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart T - Louisiana
###### ยง 147.950 State-administered program.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(a)The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Louisiana. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.

(1) Louisiana Revised Statutes Annotated sections 30:1-30:24 (1975 and Supp. 1982);

(2) Underground Injection Control Program Regulations for Class I, III, IV, and V wells, Statewide Order No. 29-N-1 (February 20, 1982), as amended June 1, 1985 and January 20, 1986;

(3)(i) Statewide Order Governing the Drilling for and Producing of Oil and Gas in the State of Louisiana, Statewide Order No. 29-B (August 26, 1974) (Composite Order Incorporating Amendments through March 1, 1974);

(ii) Amendments to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Off-site Disposal of Drilling Mud and Salt Water Generated from Drilling and Production of Oil and Gas Wells) (effective July 20, 1980);

(iii) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning the use of Tables 5A and 6A, etc.) (December 15, 1980, effective January 1, 1981);

(iv) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning the underground injection control of saltwater disposal wells, enhanced recovery injection wells, and liquid hydrocarbon storage wells) (effective February 20, 1982);

(v) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning the offsite disposal of drilling mud and saltwater) (effective May 20, 1983);

(vi) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning disposal of nonhazardous oilfield waste) (March 20, 1984, effective May 20, 1984);

(vii) Amendment to Statewide Order No. 29-B (Amendment concerning the administrative approval of injectivity tests and pilot projects in order to determine the feasibility of proposed enhanced recovery projects) (June 20, 1985, effective July 1, 1985).
