
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart Z - Mississippi
###### ยง 147.1251 State-administered program - Class II wells.

The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Mississippi, other than those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the State Oil and Gas Board of Mississippi approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in theon March 2, 1989; the effective date of this program is March 2, 1989. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:

(a) Incorporation by reference. The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Mississippi. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a).

(1) Mississippi Code Annotated, section 5-9-9 (Supp. 1988).

(2) Mississippi Code Annotated, sections 53-1-1 through 53-1-47, inclusive and sections 53-1-71 through 53-1-77, inclusive (1972 and Supp. 1988).

(3) Mississippi Code Annotated, sections 53-3-1 through 53-3-165, inclusive (1972 and Supp. 1988).

(4) State Oil and Gas Board Statewide Rules and Regulations, Rules 1 through 65, inclusive (Aug. 1, 1987, as amended, Sept. 17, 1987).

(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the State Oil and Gas Board of Mississippi signed by the Regional Administrator on October 31, 1988.

(c) Statement of legal authority. Statement from the Attorney General signed on October 1, 1987 with amendments to the Statement signed August 5, 1988 and September 15, 1988 by the Special Assistant Attorney General.

(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.
