
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart BB - Montana
###### § 147.1354 Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
####### Casing and cementing.

(b)Where the Regional Administrator determines that the owner or operator of an existing enhanced recovery or hydrocarbon storage well may not be in compliance with the requirements of §§ 144.28(e) and 146.22, the owner or operator shall when required by the Regional Administrator:

(1) Isolate all USDWs by placing cement between the outermost casing and the well bore as follows:

(i) If the injection well is east of the 108th meridian, cement the outermost casing from a point 50 feet into a major shale formation underlying the uppermost USDW to the surface. For the purpose of this paragraph, major shale formations are defined as the Bearpaw, Clagget, and Colorado formations.

(ii) If the injection well is west of the 108th meridian, cement the outermost casing to a depth of 1,000 feet, or to the base of the lowermost USDW in use as a source of drinking water whichever is deeper. The Regional Administrator may allow an owner or operator to cement to a lesser depth if he can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that no USDW will be affected by the injection facilities.

(2) Isolate any injection zones by placing sufficient cement to fill the calculated space between the casing and the well bore to a point 250 feet above the injection zone; and

(3) Use cement:

(i) Of sufficient quantity and quality to withstand the maximum operating pressure;

(ii) Which is resistant to deteriortion from formation and injection fluids; and

(iii) In a quantity no less than 120% of the calculated volume necessary to cement off a zone.

(4) The Regional Administrator may specify other requirements in addition to or in lieu of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section, as needed to protect USDWs.
