
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart DD - Nevada
###### ยง 147.1454 Existing Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells authorized by rule.
####### Maximum injection pressure.

(a)(1) To meet the operating requirements of ยง 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this chapter, the owner or operator:

(i) Shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Regional Administrator for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Regional Administrator shall establish such a maximum pressure after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for a public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter, and will inform owners and operators in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or

(ii) May inject at pressures greater than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating provided he submits a request in writing to the Regional Administrator, and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that such injection pressure will not violate the requirement of ยง 144.28(f)(3)(ii) (A) and (B). The Regional Administrator may grant such a request after notice, opportunity for comment, and opportunity for public hearing, according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.

(2) Prior to such time as the Regional Administrator establishes field rules for maximum injection pressure based on data provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the owner or operator shall:

(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of ยง 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and

(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Regional Administrator which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single test may be submitted on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same formation, if the Regional Administrator approves such submission. The data shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within one year following the effective date of this program.
