
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart SS - Texas
###### ยง 147.2200 State-administered program - Class I, III, IV, and V wells.
####### in situ

The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Texas, except for those wells on Indian lands, Class III brine mining wells, and certain Class V wells, is the program administered by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA). Notice of the original approval for Class I, III, IV, and V wells was published in theon January 6, 1982 and became effective February 7, 1982. Class V geothermal wells and wells for thecombustion of coal are regulated by the Rail Road Commission of Texas under a separate UIC program approved by EPA and published in theon April 23, 1982. A subsequent program revision application for Class I, III, IV, and V wells, not including Class III brine mining wells, was approved by the EPA pursuant to section 1422 of SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in theon February 25, 2004; the effective date of these programs is March 26, 2004. The program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells, not including Class III brine mining wells, consists of the following elements as submitted to the EPA in the State's revised program applications. The UIC program for Class III brine mining wells in the State of Texas, except for those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Railroad Commission of Texas. A program revision application for Class III brine mining wells was submitted by Texas and approved by EPA. Notice of that approval was published in theon February 26, 2004; the effective date of this program is March 29, 2004.
