
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart BBB - Puerto Rico
###### ยง 147.2650 State-administered program - Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.
####### Incorporation by reference.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained or inspected at the following locations: EPA, Region II, 26 Federal Plaza, room 845, New York, NY 10278; EPA, Headquarters, 401 M St., SW., room E1101A, Washington, DC 20460; or the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(1) Underground Injection Control Regulations of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Parts I through V and appendices A and B, adopted September 14, 1983 (Amended July 20, 1988).

(2) Puerto Rico Public Policy Environmental Act (PRPPE), Title 12 Laws of Puerto Rico Annotated (LPRA) Chapters 121 and 131, 1977 edition, as amended 1988 edition, and Chapter 122, 1988 edition.

(b) Memorandum of Agreement. The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region II and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico's EQB signed by the Regional Administrator on August 23, 1991.

(c) Statement of legal authority. (1) Attorney General's statement on the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico's Authority to apply for, assume and carry out the UIC Program, dated June 26, 1987. (2) Letter from the Governor of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico requesting the program, dated July 16, 1987.

(d) Program description. The Description of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico's Underground Injection Control Program, dated with the effective date October 30, 1986.
