
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### ยง 51.352 Basic I/M performance standard.
####### Oxides of nitrogen.

(b)Basic I/M testing in ozone nonattainment areas shall be designed such that no increase in NOemissions occurs as a result of the program. If the Administrator finds, under section 182(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act pertaining to reasonable further progress demonstrations or section 182(f)(1) of the Act pertaining to provisions for major stationary sources, that NOemission reductions are not beneficial in a given ozone nonattainment area, then the basic I/M NOrequirement may be omitted. States shall implement any required NOcontrols within 12 months of implementation of the program deadlines required in ยง 51.373 of this subpart, except that newly implemented I/M programs shall include NOcontrols from the start.

(c) On-board diagnostics (OBD). For those areas required to implement a basic I/M program prior to the effective date of designation and classification under the 8-hour ozone standard, the performance standard shall include inspection of all model year 1996 and later light-duty vehicles equipped with certified on-board diagnostic systems, and repair of malfunctions or system deterioration identified by or affecting OBD systems as specified in ยง 51.357, and assuming a start date of 2002 for such testing. For areas required to implement basic I/M as a result of designation and classification under the 8-hour ozone standard, the performance standard defined in paragraph (e) of this section shall include inspection of all model year 2001 and later light-duty vehicles equipped with certified on-board diagnostic systems, and repair of malfunctions or system deterioration identified by or affecting OBD systems as specified in ยง 51.357, and assuming a start date of 4 years after the effective date of designation and classification under the 8-hour ozone standard.
