
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart GGG - Osage Mineral Reserve - Class II Wells
###### ยง 147.2919 Construction requirements for wells authorized by permit.

(a) All Class II wells shall be sited so that they inject into a formation that is separated from any USDW by a confining zone free of known open faults or fractures within the area of review.

(b) All Class II wells shall be cased and cemented to prevent movement of fluids into or between USDWs. Requirements shall be based on the depth to base of fresh water, and the depth to the injection zone. Newly drilled Class II wells must have surface casing set and cemented to at least 50 feet below the base of fresh water, or the equivalent (e.g., long string cemented to surface). At the Regional Administrator's discretion, the casing and cementing of wells to be converted may be considered adequate if they meet the BIA requirements that were in effect at the time of construction (completion), and will not result in movement of fluid into a USDW.

(c) Owner/operators shall provide a standard female fitting with cut-off valves, connected to the tubing and the tubing/casing annulus so that the injection pressure and annulus pressure may be measured by an EPA representative by attaching a gauge having a standard male fitting.

(d) No owner or operator may begin construction of a new well until a permit authorizing such construction has been issued, unless such construction is otherwise authorized by an area permit.
