
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart GGG - Osage Mineral Reserve - Class II Wells
###### ยง 147.2920 Operating requirements for wells authorized by permit.

(a) For new Class II wells, injection shall be through adequate tubing and packer. Packer shall be run on the tubing and set inside the casing within 75 feet of the top of the injection interval. For existing Class II, wells, injection shall be through adequate tubing and packer, or according to alternative operating requirements approved by the Regional Administrator, as necessary to prevent the movement of fluid into a USDW.

(b) Each well must have mechanical integrity. Mechanical integrity of the injection well must be shown prior to operation. The owner/operator must notify the Osage UIC office at least five days prior to mechanical integrity testing. Conditions of both paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section must be met.

(1) There is no significant leak in the casing, tubing or packer. This may be shown by the following:

(i) Performance of a pressure test of the casing/tubing annulus to at least 200 psi, or the pressure specified by the Regional Administrator, to be repeated thereafter, at five year intervals, for the life of the well (Pressure tests conducted during well operation shall maintain an injection/annulus pressure differential of at least 100 psi throughout the tubing length); or

(ii) Maintaining a positive gauge pressure on the casing/tubing annulus (filled with liquid) and monitoring the pressure monthly and reporting of the pressure information annually; or

(iii) Radioactive tracer survey; or

(iv) For enhanced recovery wells, record of monitoring showing the absence of significant changes in the relationship between injection pressure and injection flow rate at the wellhead, following an initial pressure test as described by paragraph (b)(1) (i) or (v) of this section; or

(v) Testing or monitoring programs approved by the Administrator on a case-by-case basis, and

(2) There is no significant fluid movement into a USDW through vertical channels adjacent to the well bore. This may be shown by any of the following:

(i) Cementing records (need not be reviewed every five years);

(ii) Tracer survey (in appropriate hydrogelogic settings; must be used in conjunction with at least one of the other alternatives);

(iii) Temperature log;

(iv) Noise log; or

(v) Other tests deemed acceptable by the Administrator.

(c) Injection pressure at the wellhead shall be limited so that it does not initiate new fractures or propagate existing fractures in the confining zone adjacent to any UDSW.

(d) Injection wells or projects which have exhibited failure to confine injected fluids to the authorized injection zone or zones may be subject to restriction of injected volume and pressure or shut-in, until the failure has been identified and corrected.

(e) Operation shall not commence until proof has been submitted to the Regional Administrator, or an EPA representative has witnessed that any corrective action specified in the permit has been completed.
