
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart GGG - Osage Mineral Reserve - Class II Wells
###### ยง 147.2913 Monitoring and reporting requirements for wells authorized by rule.

(a) The owner/operator has the duty to submit inventory information to the Regional Administrator upon request. Such request may be a general request to all operators in the County (e.g., public notice, or mailout requesting verification of information).

(b) The operator shall monitor the injection pressure (psi) and rate (bb1/day) at least monthly, with the results reported annually. The annual report shall specify the types of methods used to generate the monitoring data.

(c) The owner/operator shall notify the Osage UIC office within 30 days of any mechanical failure or down-hole problems involving well integrity, well workovers, or any noncompliance. As required, operators must apply for and obtain a workover permit from the Bureau of Indian Affairs Osage Agency before reentering an injection well. If the condition may endanger an USDW, the owner/operator shall notify the Osage UIC office orally within 24 hours, with written notice including plans for testing and/or repair to be submitted within five days. If all the information is not available within five days, a followup report must be submitted within 30 days.

(d) The owner/operator shall determine the nature of injected fluids initially, when the nature of injected fluids is changed or when new constituents are added. The records should reflect the source of character of the new fluid and the date changes were made.

(e) The owner/operator shall retain all monitoring records for three years, unless an enforcement action is pending, and then until three years after the enforcement action has been resolved.
