
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart GGG - Osage Mineral Reserve - Class II Wells
###### ยง 147.2922 Monitoring and reporting requirements for wells authorized by permit.

(a) The owner/operator shall notify the Osage UIC office within 30 days of the date on which injection commenced.

(b) The operator shall monitor the injection pressure (psi) and rate (bbl/day) at least monthly, with the results reported annually. The annual reports shall specify the types or methods used to generate the monitoring data.

(c) The owner/operator shall notify the Osage UIC office within 30 days of any mechanical failure or down-hole problems involving well integrity, well workovers, or any noncompliance. (Operators should note the obligation to apply for and obtain a workover permit from the Bureau of Indian Affairs Osage Agency before reentering an injection well.) If the condition may endanger an USDW, the owner/operator shall notify the Osage UIC officer orally within 24 hours, with written notice including plans for testing and/or repair to be submitted within five days. If all the information is not available within five days, a followup report must be submitted within 30 days.

(d) The owner/operator shall retain all monitoring records for three years, unless an enforcement action is pending, and then until three years after the enforcement action has been resolved.

(e) The owner/operator shall notify the Osage UIC office in writing of a transfer of ownership at least 10 days prior to such transfer.
