
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart GGG - Osage Mineral Reserve - Class II Wells
###### § 147.2925 Standard permit conditions.

(a) The permittee must comply with all permit conditions, except as authorized by an emergency permit (described in § 147.2906). Noncompliance is grounds for permit modification, permit termination or enforcement action.

(b) The permittee has a duty to halt or reduce activity in order to maintain compliance with permit conditions.

(c) The permittee shall take all reasonable steps to mitigate any adverse environmental impact resulting from noncompliance.

(d) The permittee shall properly operate and maintain all facilities installed or used to meet permit conditions. Proper operation and maintenance also includes adequate operator staffing and training, adequate funding, and adequate engineering capability available.

(e) This permit may be modified or terminated for cause (see §§ 147.2927 and 147.2928). The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit modification or termination, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition.

(f) This permit does not convey any property rights, or any exclusive privilege.

(g) The permittee shall furnish, within a reasonable time, information that the Regional Administrator requests, for determination of permit compliance, or if cause exists, for permit modification or termination.

(h) The permittee shall allow EPA representatives, upon presentation of appropriate credentials or other documentation, to:

(1) Enter permittee's premises where a regulated activity is conducted or located, or where records required by this permit are kept;

(2) Have access to and copy records required by this permit;

(3) Inspect any facilities, equipment, practices or operations regulated or required by this permit; and

(4) Sample or monitor any substances or parameters at any location for purpose of assuring compliance with this permit or the SDWA.
