
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart GGG - Osage Mineral Reserve - Class II Wells
###### ยง 147.2929 Administrative permitting procedures.
####### Public notice.

(d)(1)(i) The Regional Administrator shall give public notice when:

(A) A permit application has been tentatively denied;

(B) A draft permit has been prepared;

(C) A hearing has been scheduled; or

(D) An appeal has been granted.

(ii) The applicant shall give public notice that he is submitting a permit application.

(iii) Public notice is not required when a request for permit modification or termination is denied. However, written notice will be given to the permittee and the requester.

(iv) Public notices may include more than one permit or action.

(2)(i) Public notice of a draft permit (including notice of intent to deny) shall allow at least 15 days for public comment.

(ii) Public notice of a hearing shall be given at least 30 days before the hearing.

(3)(i) Public notice given by the Regional Administrator for the reasons listed in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section shall be mailed to the applicant, and published in a daily or weekly paper of general circulation in the affected area.

(ii) Notice of application submission required by paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section shall be given to the surface landowner, tenants on the land where an injection well is located or is proposed to be located, and to each operator of a producing lease within one-half mile of the well location prior to submitting the application to the Regional Administrator.

(4) The notice of application submission in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (d)(3)(ii) of this section shall contain:

(i) The applicant's name and address;

(ii) The legal location of the injection well;

(iii) Nature of activity;

(iv) A statement that EPA will be preparing a draft permit and that there will be an opportunity for public comment; and

(v) The name and phone number of EPA contact person.

(5) All other notices shall contain:

(i) The name, address, and phone number of the Osage UIC office and contact person for additional information and copies of the draft permit;

(ii) Name and address of permit applicant or permittee;

(iii) Brief description of nature of activity;

(iv) Brief description of comment period and comment procedures;

(v) Location of the information available for public review; and

(vi) In the case of a notice for a hearing the notice shall also include:

(A) Date, time, and location of hearing;

(B) Reference to date of previous notices of the same permit; and

(C) Brief description of the purpose of the hearing, including rules and procedures.
