
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart GGG - Osage Mineral Reserve - Class II Wells
###### ยง 147.2929 Administrative permitting procedures.
####### Appeal of permits.

(j)(1) Any person who filed comments on the draft permit or participated in the public hearing may petition the Administrator to review any condition of the permit decision. Any person who failed to file comments or participate in the hearing may petition for administrative review only to the extent of the changes from the preliminary permit to the final permit decision.

(2) A person may request review of a final permit decision within 30 days after a final permit decision has been issued. The 30-day period within which a person may request review begins with the service of notice of the Regional Administrator's final permit decision unless a later date is specified in that notice.

(3) The petition requesting review shall include:

(i) A demonstration that the petition is eligible under the requirements of paragraph (j)(1) of this section; and, when appropriate,

(ii) A showing that the condition in question is based on:

(A) A finding of fact or conclusion of law that is clearly erroneous; or

(B) An exercise of discretion or important policy consideration which the Administrator, in his discretion, should review.

(4) The Administrator may also decide, on his initiative, to review any condition of any UIC permit issued under these requirements. The Administrator must act under this paragraph within 30 days of the date notice was given of the Regional Administrator's action.

(5) Within a reasonable time following the filing of the petition for review, the Administrator shall issue an order either granting or denying the request. To the extent that review is denied, the conditions of the final permit decision become final agency action.

(6) Public notice shall be given by the Regional Administrator of any grant of a review petition by the Administrator. Notice shall be sent to the applicant, the person requesting the review, appropriate persons on the Osage County mailing list and to newspapers of general circulation in the county. Included in the notice shall be a briefing schedule for the appeal and a statement that any interested person may file an amicus brief. Notice of denial of the review petition will be sent only to the person(s) requesting the review.

(7) A petition to the Administrator, under paragraphs (j) (1) and (2) of this section is a prerequisite to the seeking of judicial review of the final agency action. For purposes of judicial review, final agency action occurs when a final UIC permit is issued or denied by the Regional Administrator and agency review procedures are exhausted. A final permit decision shall be issued by the Regional Administrator:

(i) When the Administrator issues notice to the parties involved that review has been denied;

(ii) When the Administrator issues a decision on the merits of the appeal and the decision does not include a remand of the proceedings; or

(iii) Upon the completion of the remand proceedings if the proceedings are remanded, unless the Administrator's remand order specifically provides that the appeal of the remand decision will be required to exhaust the administrative remedies.
