
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 147 - STATE, TRIBAL, AND EPA-ADMINISTERED UNDERGROUND INJECTION CONTROL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart HHH - Lands of the Navajo, Ute Mountain Ute, and All Other New Mexico Tribes
###### ยง 147.3006 Injection pressure for existing Class II wells authorized by rule.
####### Rule-authorized Class II enhanced recovery and hydrocarbon storage wells.

(b)(1) In addition to the requirements of ยง 144.28(f)(3)(ii) of this chapter, owners and operators shall use an injection pressure no greater than the pressure established by the Director for the field or formation in which the well is located. The Director shall establish such maximum pressure after notice (including notice to the affected Tribe), opportunity for comment, and opportunity for public hearing according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A, of this chapter, and shall inform owners and operators and the affected Tribe in writing of the applicable maximum pressure; or

(2) An owner or operator may inject at a pressure greater than that specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for the field or formation in which he is operating after demonstrating in writing to the satisfaction of the Director that such injection pressure will not violate the requirements of ยง 144.28(f)(3)(ii) of this chapter. The Director may grant such a request after notice (including notice to the affected Tribe), opportunity for comment and opportunity for a public hearing according to the provisions of part 124, subpart A of this chapter.

(3) Prior to the time that the Director establishes rules for maximum injection pressure under paragraph (b)(1) of this section the owner or operator shall:

(i) Limit injection pressure to a value which will not exceed the operating requirements of ยง 144.28(f)(3)(ii); and

(ii) Submit data acceptable to the Director which defines the fracture pressure of the formation in which injection is taking place. A single submission may be made on behalf of two or more operators conducting operations in the same field and formation, if the Director approves. The data shall be submitted to the Director within one year of the effective date of this program.
