
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 152.6 Substances excluded from regulation by FIFRA.
####### Nitrogen stabilizers.

(b)A nitrogen stabilizer is excluded from regulation under FIFRA if it is a substance (or mixture of substances), meeting all of the following criteria:

(1) The substance prevents or hinders the process of nitrification, denitrification, ammonia volatilization, or urease production through action affecting soil bacteria and is distributed and sold solely for those purposes and no other pesticidal purposes. For purposes of this section, living organisms are not considered to be substances, and the actions of living organisms are not relevant to whether a substance is deemed to be a nitrogen stabilizer.

(2) The substance was in "commercial agronomic use" in the United States before January 1, 1992. EPA considers a substance to be in commercial agronomic use if it is available for sale or distribution to users for direct agronomic benefit, as opposed to limited research, experimental or demonstration use.

(3) The substance was not registered under FIFRA before January 1, 1992.

(4) Since January 1, 1992, the distributor or seller has made no claim that the product prevents or hinders the process of nitrification, denitrification, ammonia volatilization or urease production. EPA considers any of the following claims (or their equivalents) to be a claim that the product prevents or hinders nitrification, denitrification, ammonia volatilization or urease production:

(i) Improves crop utilization of applied nitrogen.

(ii) Reduces leaching of applied nitrogen or reduces groundwater nitrogen contamination.

(iii) Prevents nitrogen loss.

(iv) Prolongs availability of nitrogen.

(v) Increases nitrogen uptake, availability, usage, or efficiency.

(5) A product will be considered to have met the criterion of paragraph (b)(4) of this section that no nitrogen stabilization claim has been made if:

(i) The nitrogen stabilization claim, in whatever terms expressed, is made solely in compliance with a State requirement to include the claim in materials required to be submitted to a State legislative or regulatory authority, or in the labeling or other literature accompanying the product; and

(ii) The State requirement to include the claim was in effect both before the product bearing the claim was introduced into commercial agronomic use, and before the effective date of this rule.

(6) A product that meets all of the criteria of this paragraph with respect to one State is not thereby excluded from FIFRA regulation if distributed and sold in another State whose nitrogen stabilization statement requirement does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.
