
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Exemptions
###### ยง 152.20 Exemptions for pesticides adequately regulated by another Federal agency.
####### Certain biological control agents.

(a)(1) Except as provided by paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section, all biological control agents are exempt from FIFRA requirements.

(2) If the Agency determines that an individual biological control agent or class of biological control agents is no longer adequately regulated by another Federal agency, and that it should not otherwise be exempted from the requirements of FIFRA, the Agency will revoke this exemption by amending paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) The following biological control agents are not exempt from FIFRA requirements:

(i) A eucaryotic microorganism including, but not limited to, protozoa, algae and fungi;

(ii) A procaryotic microorganism including, but not limited to, Eubacteria and Archaebacteria; or

(iii) A parasitically-replicating microscopic element, including, but not limited to, viruses.

(4) All living plants intended for use as biological control agents are exempt from the requirements of FIFRA. However, plant-incorporated protectants are not exempt pursuant to this section. Regulations, including exemptions, for plant-incorporated protectants are addressed in part 174 of this chapter.
