
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Exemptions
###### ยง 152.25 Exemptions for pesticides of a character not requiring FIFRA regulation.
####### Pheromones and pheromone traps.

(b)Pheromones and identical or substantially similar compounds labeled for use only in pheromone traps (or labeled for use in a manner which the Administrator determines poses no greater risk of adverse effects on the environment than use in pheromone traps), and pheromone traps in which those compounds are the sole active ingredient(s).

(1) For the purposes of this paragraph, a pheromone is a compound produced by an arthropod which, alone or in combination with other such compounds, modifies the behavior of other individuals of the same species.

(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, a synthetically produced compound is identical to a pheromone only when their molecular structures are identical, or when the only differences between the molecular structures are between the stereochemical isomer ratios of the two compounds, except that a synthetic compound found to have toxicological properties significantly different from a pheromone is not identical.

(3) When a compound possesses many characteristics of a pheromone but does not meet the criteria in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, it may, after review by the Agency, be deemed a substantially similar compound.

(4) For the purposes of this paragraph, a pheromone trap is a device containing a pheromone or an identical or substantially similar compound used for the sole purpose of attracting, and trapping or killing, target arthropods. Pheromone traps are intended to achieve pest control by removal of target organisms from their natural environment and do not result in increased levels of pheromones or identical or substantially similar compounds over a significant fraction of the treated area.
