
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### ยง 51.356 Vehicle coverage.
####### Subject vehicles.

(a)(1) All vehicles of a covered model year and vehicle type shall be tested according to the applicable test schedule, including leased vehicles whose registration or titling is in the name of an equity owner other than the lessee or user.

(2) All subject fleet vehicles shall be inspected. Fleets may be officially inspected outside of the normal I/M program test facilities, if such alternatives are approved by the program administration, but shall be subject to the same test requirements using the same quality control standards as non-fleet vehicles. If all vehicles in a particular fleet are tested during one part of the cycle, then the quality control requirements shall be met during the time of testing only. Any vehicle available for rent in the I/M area or for use in the I/M area shall be subject. Fleet vehicles not being tested in normal I/M test facilities in enhanced I/M programs, however, shall be inspected in independent, test-only facilities, according to the requirements of ยง 51.353(a) of this subpart.

(3) Subject vehicles which are registered in the program area but are primarily operated in another I/M area shall be tested, either in the area of primary operation, or in the area of registration. Alternate schedules may be established to permit convenient testing of these vehicles (e.g., vehicles belonging to students away at college should be rescheduled for testing during a visit home). I/M programs shall make provisions for providing official testing to vehicles registered elsewhere.

(4) Vehicles which are operated on Federal installations located within an I/M program area shall be tested, regardless of whether the vehicles are registered in the State or local I/M area. This requirement applies to all employee-owned or leased vehicles (including vehicles owned, leased, or operated by civilian and military personnel on Federal installations) as well as agency-owned or operated vehicles, except tactical military vehicles, operated on the installation. This requirement shall not apply to visiting agency, employee, or military personnel vehicles as long as such visits do not exceed 60 calendar days per year. In areas without test fees collected in the lane, arrangements shall be made by the installation with the I/M program for reimbursement of the costs of tests provided for agency vehicles, at the discretion of the I/M agency. The installation shall provide documentation of proof of compliance to the I/M agency. The documentation shall include a list of subject vehicles and shall be updated periodically, as determined by the I/M program administrator, but no less frequently than each inspection cycle. The installation shall use one of the following methods to establish proof of compliance:

(i) Presentation of a valid certificate of compliance from the local I/M program, from any other I/M program at least as stringent as the local program, or from any program deemed acceptable by the I/M program administrator.

(ii) Presentation of proof of vehicle registration within the geographic area covered by the I/M program, except for any program whose enforcement is not through registration denial.

(iii) Another method approved by the State or local I/M program administrator.

(5) Special exemptions may be permitted for certain subject vehicles provided a demonstration is made that the performance standard will be met.

(6) States may also exempt MY 1996 and newer OBD-equipped vehicles that receive an OBD-I/M inspection from the tailpipe, purge, and fill-neck pressure tests (where applicable) without any loss of emission reduction credit.
