
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Registration Procedures
###### ยง 152.50 Contents of application.
####### Registration data requirements.

(f)(1) An applicant must submit materials to demonstrate that he has complied with the FIFRA sec. 3(c)(1)(F) and subpart E of this part with respect to satisfaction of data requirements, to enable the Agency to make the determination required by FIFRA sec. 3(c)(5)(B). Required items are described in subpart E of this part.

(2) An applicant must furnish any data specified in part 158 or part 161 of this chapter, as applicable, of this chapter which are required by the Agency to determine that the product meets the registration standards of FIFRA sec. 3(c)(5) or (7). Each study must comply with:

(i) Section 158.32 of this chapter, with respect to format of data submission.

(ii) Section 158.33 of this chapter, with respect to studies for which a claim of trade secret or confidential business information is made.

(iii) Section 158.34 of this chapter, with respect to flagging for potential adverse effects.

(iv) Section 160.12 of this chapter, with respect to a statement whether studies were conducted in accordance with Good Laboratory Practices of part 160.

(3) An applicant shall furnish with his application any factual information of which he is aware regarding unreasonable adverse effects of the pesticide on man or the environment, which would be required to be reported under FIFRA sec. 6(a)(2) if the product were registered.
