
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Satisfaction of Data Requirements and Protection of Data Submitters' Rights
###### § 152.85 Formulators' exemption.
####### Claiming eligibility for the exemption.

(d)(1) If the product contains one or more ingredients eligible for the formulators' exemption, the applicant need not comply with the requirements of §§ 152.90 through 152.96 with respect to any data requirement pertaining to such ingredient, provided that he submits to the Agency a certification statement containing the following information (a form for this purpose is available from the Agency):

(i) Identification of the applicant, and of the product by EPA registration number or file symbol.

(ii) Identification of each ingredient in the pesticide that is eligible for the formulators' exemption, and the EPA registration number of the product that is the source of that ingredient.

(iii) A statement that the listed ingredients meet the requirements for the formulators' exemption.

(iv) A statement that the applicant has submitted (either previously or with the current application) a complete, accurate and current Confidential Statement of Formula.

(v) The name, title and signature of the applicant or his authorized representative and the date of signature.

(2) An applicant for amended registration is not required to submit a new formulators' exemption statement, if the current statement in Agency files is complete and accurate.
