
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Satisfaction of Data Requirements and Protection of Data Submitters' Rights
###### ยง 152.99 Petitions to cancel registration.
####### Disposition of petitions.

(c)The Agency will consider the material submitted by the petitioner and the response, if any, by the affected applicant or registrant.

(1) If the Agency determines that the petition is without merit, it will inform the petitioner and the affected applicant or registrant that the petition is denied. Denial of a petition is a final Agency action.

(2) If the Agency determines that an applicant has acted in any way described by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Agency will notify the petitioner and the affected applicant or registrant that it intends to deny or cancel the registration of the product in support of which the data were cited. The affected applicant or registrant will have 15 days from the date of delivery of this notice to respond. If the Agency determines, after considering any response, that the affected applicant or registrant has acted in the ways described by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Agency will deny or cancel the registration without further hearing. Refer to FIFRA section 3(c)(1)(F)(ii). Denial or cancellation of a registration is a final Agency action.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if the Agency determines that an applicant for registration of a product has acted in any way that deprives an original data submitter of rights under FIFRA section 3(c)(1)(F), the Agency will take steps to deny the application or cancel the registration, as appropriate. The procedures in FIFRA section 3(c)(6) or section 6(b) shall be followed. Denial or cancellation is a final Agency action.
