
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Satisfaction of Data Requirements and Protection of Data Submitters' Rights
###### ยง 152.99 Petitions to cancel registration.
####### Grounds for petition.

(a)(1) If an applicant has offered to pay compensation to an original data submitter of a study (either specifically or by filing a general offer to pay statement), the original data submitter may petition the Agency to deny or cancel the registration to which the offer related on any of the following grounds:

(i) The applicant has failed to participate in an agreed-upon procedure for reaching an agreement on the amount and terms of compensation. The petitioner shall submit a copy of the agreed-upon procedure and describe the applicant's failure to participate in the procedure.

(ii) The applicant has failed to comply with the terms of an agreement on compensation. The petitioner shall submit a copy of the agreement, and shall describe how the applicant has failed to comply with the agreement.

(iii) The applicant has failed to participate in an arbitration proceeding. The petitioner shall submit evidence of such failure.

(iv) The applicant has failed to comply with the terms of an arbitration decision. The petitioner shall submit a copy of the arbitration decision, and describe how the applicant has failed to comply with the decision.

(2) When no offer to pay has been made, the petitioner shall state in his petition the basis for the challenge, and describe how the failure of the applicant to comply with the procedures of this subpart has deprived him of the rights accorded him under FIFRA section 3(c)(1)(F). Possible grounds for challenge include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) The applicant has failed to list a data requirement applicable to his product, or has failed to demonstrate compliance with all applicable data requirements.

(ii) The applicant has submitted or cited a study that is not valid.

(iii) The applicant has submitted or cited a study that does not satisfy the data requirement for which it was submitted or cited.

(iv) The applicant has falsely or improperly claimed that a data gap existed at the time of his application.

(v) The applicant has submitted or cited a study originally submitted by the petitioner, without the required authorization or offer to pay.
