
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Agency Review of Applications
###### ยง 152.113 Approval of registration under FIFRA sec. 3(c)(7) - Products that do not contain a new active ingredient.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Agency may approve an application for registration or amended registration of a pesticide product, each of whose active ingredients is contained in one or more other registered peticide products, only if the Agency has determined that:

(1) It possesses all data necessary to make the determinations required by FIFRA sec. 3(c)(7)(A) or (B) with respect to the pesticide product which is the subject of the application (including, at a minimum, data needed to characterize any incremental risk that would result from approval of the application);

(2) Approval of the application would not significantly increase the risk of any unreasonable adverse effect on the environment; and

(3) The criteria of ยง 152.112(a), (d), and (f) through (h) have been satisfied.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency will not approve the conditional registration of any pesticide under FIFRA sec. 3(c)(7)(A) unless the Agency has determined that the applicant's product and its proposed use are identical or substantially similar to a currently registered pesticide and use, or that the pesticide and its proposed use differ only in ways that would not significantly increase the risk of unreasonable adverse effects on the environment.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency will not approve the conditional registration of any pesticide product for a new use under FIFRA sec. 3(c)(7)(B) if:

(1) The pesticide is the subject of a special review, based on a use of the product that results in human dietary exposure; and

(2) The proposed new use involves use on a major food or feed crop, or involves use on a minor food or feed crop for which there is available an effective alternative registered pesticide which does not meet the risk criteria associated with human dietary exposure. The determination of available and effective alternatives shall be made with the concurrence of the Secretary of Agriculture.
