
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - Agency Review of Applications
###### § 152.112 Approval of registration under FIFRA sec. 3(c)(5).

EPA will approve an application under the criteria of FIFRA sec. 3(c)(5) only if:

(a) The Agency has determined that the application is complete and is accompanied by all materials required by the Act and this part, including, but not limited to, evidence of compliance with subpart E of this part;

(b) The Agency has reviewed all relevant data in the possession of the Agency (see §§ 152.107 and 152.111);

(c) The Agency has determined that no additional data are necessary to make the determinations required by FIFRA sec. 3(c)(5) with respect to the pesticide product which is the subject of the application;

(d) The Agency has determined that the composition of the product is such as to warrant the proposed efficacy claims for it, if efficacy data are required to be submitted for the product by part 158 or part 161 of this chapter, as applicable.

(e) The Agency has determined that the product will perform its intended function without unreasonable adverse effects on the environment, and that, when used in accordance with widespread and commonly recognized practice, the product will not generally cause unreasonable adverse effects on the environment;

(f) The Agency has determined that the product is not misbranded as that term is defined in FIFRA sec. 2(q) and part 156 of this chapter, and its labeling and packaging comply with the applicable requirements of the Act, this part, and parts 156 and 157 of this chapter;

(g) If the proposed labeling bears directions for use on food, animal feed, or food or feed crops, or if the intended use of the pesticide results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in pesticide residues (including residues of any active or inert ingredient of the product, or of any metabolite or degradation product thereof) in or on food or animal feed, all necessary tolerances, exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance, and food additive regulations have been issued under FFDCA sec. 408, and

(h) If the product, in addition to being a pesticide, is a drug within the meaning of FFDCA sec. 201(q), the Agency has been notified by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that the product complies with any requirements imposed by FDA.
