
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Obligations and Rights of Registrants
###### ยง 152.130 Distribution under approved labeling.

(a) A registrant may distribute or sell a registered product with the composition, packaging and labeling currently approved by the Agency.

(b) A registrant may distribute or sell a product under labeling bearing any subset of the approved directions for use, provided that in limiting the uses listed on the label, no changes would be necessary in precautionary statements, use classification, or packaging of the product.

(c) Normally, if the product labeling is amended on the initiative of the registrant, by submission of an application for amended registration, the registrant may distribute or sell under the previously approved labeling for a period of 18 months after approval of the revision, unless an order subsequently issued by the Agency under FIFRA sec. 6 or 13 provides otherwise. However, if paragraph (d) of this section applies to the registrant's product, the time frames established by the Agency in accordance with that paragraph shall take precedence.

(d) If a product's labeling is required to be revised as a result of the issuance of a Registration Standard, a Label Improvement Program notice, or a notice concluding a special review process, the Agency will specify in the notice to the registrant the period of time that previously approved labeling may be used. In all cases, supplemental or sticker labeling may be used as an interim compliance measure for a reasonable period of time. The Agency may establish dates as follows governing when label changes must appear on labels:

(1) The Agency may establish a date after which all product distributed or sold by the registrant must bear revised labeling.

(2) The Agency may also establish a date after which no product may be distributed or sold by any person unless it bears revised labeling. This date will provide sufficient time for product in channels of trade to be distributed or sold to users or otherwise disposed of.
