
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Classification of Pesticides
###### ยง 152.164 Classification procedures.
####### Classification reviews.

(b)The Agency may conduct classification reviews and classify products at any time, if it determines that a restriction on the use of a pesticide product is necessary to avoid unreasonable adverse effects on the environment. However, classification reviews normally will be conducted and products classified only in the following circumstances:

(1) As part of the review of an application for new registration of a product containing an active ingredient not contained in any currently registered product.

(2) As part of the review of an application for a new use of a product, if existing uses of that product previously have been classified for restricted use. Review of a restricted use product at this time is for the purpose of determining whether the new use should also be classified for restricted use. Normally the Agency will not conduct initial classification reviews for existing uses of individual products in conjunction with an application for amended registration.

(3) As part of the process of developing or amending a registration standard for a pesticide. The Agency normally will conduct classification reviews of all uses of a currently registered pesticide at this time.

(4) As part of any special review of a pesticide, in accordance with the procedures of 40 CFR part 154.
