
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Classification of Pesticides
###### ยง 152.164 Classification procedures.
####### Classification procedures.

(c)(1) If the Agency determines that a product or one or more of its uses should be classified for restricted use, the Agency initially may classify the product by regulation. In this case, within 60 days after the effective date of a final rule, each registrant of a product subject to the rule must submit to the Agency one of the following, as directed in the final rule:

(i) A copy of the amended label and any supplemental labeling to be used as an interim compliance measure.

(ii) A statement, which the Agency considers a report under the Act, that the registrant will comply with the labeling requirements prescribed by the Agency within the timeframes prescribed by the regulation.

(iii) An application for amended registration to delete the uses which have been restricted, or to "split" the registration into two registrations, one including only restricted or all uses, and the other including only uses that have not been classified.

(2) Alternatively, EPA may notify the applicant or registrant of the classification decision and require that he submit the information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The Agency may deny registration or initiate cancellation proceedings if the registrant fails to comply within the timeframes established by the Agency in its notification.
