
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart I - Classification of Pesticides
###### ยง 152.170 Criteria for restriction to use by certified applicators.
####### Alternative labeling language.

(e)(1) If the Agency determines that a product meets one or more of the criteria of paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, or if other evidence identified in paragraph (d) of this section leads the Agency to conclude that the product should be considered for restricted use classification, the Agency will then determine if additional labeling language would be adequate to mitigate the identified hazard(s) without restricted use classification. If the labeling language meets all the criteria specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the product will not be classified for restricted use.

(2) The labeling will be judged adequate if it meets all the following criteria:

(i) The user, in order to follow label directions, would not be required to perform complex operations or procedures requiring specialized training and/or experience.

(ii) The label directions do not call for specialized apparatus, protective equipment, or materials that reasonably would not be available to the general public.

(iii) Failure to follow label directions in a minor way would result in few or no significant adverse effects.

(iv) Following directions for use would result in few or no significant adverse effects of a delayed or indirect nature through bioaccumulation, persistence, or pesticide movement from the original application site.

(v) Widespread and commonly recognized practices of use would not nullify or detract from label directions such that unreasonable adverse effects on the environment might occur.
