
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 153 - REGISTRATION POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart G - Determination of Active and Inert Ingredients
###### ยง 153.125 Criteria for determination of pesticidal activity.

(a) An ingredient will be considered an active ingredient if it is contained in a pesticide product and:

(1) The ingredient has the capability by itself, and when used as directed at the proposed use dilution, to function as a pesticide; or

(2) The ingredient has the ability to elicit or enhance a pesticidal effect in another compound whose pesticidal activity is substantially increased due to the interaction of the compounds. Compounds which function simply to enhance or prolong the activity of an active ingredient by physical action, such as stickers and other adjuvants, are not generally considered to be active ingredients.

(b) Normally the applicant will determine and state in his application whether an ingredient is active or inert with respect to pesticidal activity. The Agency, as part of its review of an application for registration, or in conjunction with the Registration Standard or Special Review process, may require any ingredient, to be designated as an active ingredient if the Agency finds that it meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section. Conversely, the Agency may determine that any ingredient designated as active by an applicant is an inert ingredient if it fails to meet those criteria.

(c) If an ingredient is designated as an active ingredient, it must be identified in the label ingredients statement. If an ingredient is designated as an inert ingredient, it must be included as part of the total inert ingredients in the label ingredients statement.

(d) Designation of a substance as a pesticidally inert ingredient does not relieve the applicant or registrant of other requirements of FIFRA with respect to labeling of inert ingredients or submission of data, or from the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to tolerances or other clearance of ingredients.
