
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 152 - PESTICIDE REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart Z - Devices
###### ยง 152.500 Requirements for devices.

(a) A device is defined as any instrument or contrivance (other than a firearm) intended for trapping, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest or any other form of plant or animal life (other than man and other than a bacterium, virus, or other microorganism on or in living man or living animals) but not including equipment used for the application of pesticides (such as tamper-resistant bait boxes for rodenticides) when sold separately therefrom.

(b) A device is not required to be registered under FIFRA sec. 3. The Agency has issued a policy statement concerning its authority and activities with respect to devices, which was published in theof November 19, 1976 (41 FR 51065). A device is subject to the requirements set forth in:

(1) FIFRA sec. 2(q)(1) and part 156 of this chapter, with respect to labeling;

(2) FIFRA sec. 7 and part 167 of this chapter, with respect to establishment registration and reporting;

(3) FIFRA sec. 8 and part 169 of this chapter, with respect to books and records;

(4) FIFRA sec. 9, with respect to inspection of establishments;

(5) FIFRA sec. 12, 13, and 14, with respect to violations, enforcement activities, and penalties;

(6) FIFRA sec. 17, with respect to import and export of devices;

(7) FIFRA sec. 25(c)(3), with respect to child-resistant packaging; and

(8) FIFRA sec. 25(c)(4), with respect to the Agency's authority to declare devices subject to certain provisions of the Act.
