
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 154 - SPECIAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 154.15 Docket for the Special Review.
####### Contents of the docket.

(b)For each pre-Special Review or Special Review, the docket shall contain:

(1) The Notice of Special Review, any Notice of Preliminary Determination, and any Notice of Final Determination.

(2) Any notice issued under § 154.21 or § 154.23.

(3) Any documents (other than information claimed to be confidential business information) referred to by the Agency in those notices as relied upon by the Agency in reaching its determination.

(4) Copies of all written comments or materials (other than information claimed to be confidential business information) responding to any notice furnished under § 154.21 or § 154.23 or submitted at any time during the Special Review process by any person outside of government.

(5) Any written response to the Notice of Preliminary Determination from the Secretary of Agriculture or the Scientific Advisory Panel.

(6) A transcript of all public meetings held by the Scientific Advisory Panel or conducted by the Agency for the purpose of gathering information.

(7) A memorandum describing each meeting between Agency personnel and any person or party outside of government which concerns a pending pre-Special Review or Special Review decision. Each such memorandum shall be based on notes taken at the meeting and shall specify the date and time of the meeting, the participants and their affiliations, who requested the meeting, the subject matter of the meeting, and the person who prepared the memorandum. Except for information claimed to be confidential business information, each memorandum shall describe fully and accurately all significant positions taken, arguments made, and facts presented by each participant in the meeting, and shall identify all documents, proposals, or other materials distributed or exchanged at the meeting. Any discussion of claimed confidential business information shall be identified in meeting notes and referenced in the memorandum.

(8) All comments, correspondence, or other materials concerning a pending pre-Special Review or Special Review decision provided to the Agency by a person or party outside of government (other than information claimed to be confidential business information).

(9) All documents, proposals, or other materials concerning a pending pre-Special Review or Special Review decision, provided by the Agency to any person or party outside of government (other than information claimed to be confidential business information).
