
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 154 - SPECIAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Procedures
###### § 154.25 Public announcement of final decision whether to initiate a Special Review.

(a) The Administrator shall evaluate the available information and the comments received in response to the notice under § 154.21 and any notice issued under § 154.23, and shall issue for publication in thea notice under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.

(b) If the Administrator determines after having given notice under § 154.21 not to initiate a Special Review, he shall issue his decision for publication in thewith a statement of reasons.

(c) If the Administrator determines after having given notice under § 154.21 that one or more of the risk criteria set forth in § 154.7 have been satisfied, the Agency shall issue a notice for publication in thewhich shall include:

(1) Identification of the pesticide uses for which a Special Review has been initiated and an identification of the criteria which have been satisfied.

(2) A brief discussion of the Agency's reasons for determining that the criteria have been satisfied.

(3) A statement indicating that EPA has established a docket for the Special Review, the contents of the docket, the location of the docket, and the times during which the docket will be available for inspection and copying.

(4) An invitation to all interested persons to submit further information concerning the risks and benefits associated with each use of the pesticide subject to the Special Review.

(5) A brief description of the Special Review process and a statement that registrants and applicants bear an affirmative burden of supporting registration of a pesticide product.

(6) A date by which information in response to the Agency's request for further information must be submitted.

(d) In his discretion, the Administrator may request that the Scientific Advisory Panel hold a public meeting to review the scientific issues related to the Special Review.
