
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 154 - SPECIAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 154.15 Docket for the Special Review.
####### Assertion of confidential business information claims.

(c)(1) Information, comments, data, or other written material submitted to the Agency concerning a Special Review may be claimed by the submitter to be confidential business information. The burden of identifying claimed confidential business information rests with the submitter, or, in meetings, with the participants who wish to assert a claim of confidentiality.

(2) To assert a claim of confidentiality for all or any part of a written submission concerning a Special Review, the submitter must furnish three copies of the material. Two copies must be complete, with claimed confidential business information clearly marked in the text. Items in the document that are claimed confidential should be numbered consecutively throughout the text. The third copy must have the claimed confidential business information excised from the text without closing up or paraphrasing the remaining text. The deletions should be consecutively numbered to correspond to the numbering of the complete copies. Each copy must be marked on the cover as to whether it contains claimed confidential business information.

(3) Any written material concerning a Special Review received by the Agency that is not marked as confidential will be deemed to be nonconfidential, and may be made available through the public docket or otherwise disclosed without prior notice to the submitter.
