
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 154 - SPECIAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 154.15 Docket for the Special Review.
####### Access to the docket.

(f)(1)(i) For each chemical in Special Review, the docket shall be available for public inspection and copying and its index kept current and made available to the public on request. The docket and index for any pesticide for which the Agency has issued a pre-Special Review notification under § 154.21 will only be made available for public inspection and copying following issuance of a proposed decision not to start a Special Review under § 154.23, a Notice of Special Review under § 154.25(c), or as otherwise specified in § 154.34.

(ii) The docket and index will be available at the OPP Regulatory Public Docket located as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(c).

(2) Information contained in the docket shall not be disclosed to the public to the extent that FIFRA or any other statute or regulation (including, but not limited to, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3) or (4)) prohibits its disclosure.

(3) The Agency will distribute a compendium of indices for new materials in the public docket by mail, on a monthly basis, to those members of the public who have specifically requested such material. The Agency will announce the availability of docket indices both annually in theand in eachNotice concerning pre-Special Review or Special Review for specific pesticides. The Agency may also periodically require parties on the mailing list to renew their previous request for such materials.
