
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 154 - SPECIAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Procedures
###### § 154.31 Notices of Preliminary Determination.
####### Contents of notice.

(a)The Notice of Preliminary Determination shall respond to all significant comments submitted in response to the Notice of Special Review. For each use of a pesticide product that was the subject of the Notice of Special Review, the Notice of Preliminary Determination shall also include, as appropriate:

(1) A determination whether the use satisfies any of the risk criteria set forth in § 154.7, and a discussion of the reasons for the determination.

(2) A determination of whether any changes in the composition, packaging, labeling, or restrictions on use of a pesticide product that were proposed in an application for new or amended registration submitted after issuance of the Notice of Special Review would reduce the risk so that the use no longer would satisfy any of the risk criteria in § 154.7.

(3) If the use satisfies any of the risk criteria set forth in § 154.7, a determination of whether the adverse effects posed by the use are unreasonable, taking into account the economic, social, and environmental costs and benefits of the use of the product, and a discussion of reasons for the determination.

(4) If the use is determined to pose an unreasonable adverse effect, a statement of the regulatory action, if any, which the Agency intends to initiate with respect to the use, and a discussion of the reasons for initiating that regulatory action.

(5) A statement that the Administrator is requesting comments from the Secretary of Agriculture and the Scientific Advisory Panel on the notices and analysis specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and that the notices and analysis are available on request.

(6) Instructions to interested persons on how to submit comments (including the deadline for submission of comments).

(7) The location of the docket under § 154.15 and the times during which the docket will be available for inspection and copying.
