
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 155 - REGISTRATION STANDARDS AND REGISTRATION REVIEW
##### Subpart B - Docketing and Public Participation Procedures
###### ยง 155.30 Meetings and communications.
####### Information submitted to the Agency concerning a Registration Standard under development.

(c)(1) Information, comments, data, or other written material submitted to the Agency at any time concerning a Registration Standard under development may be claimed by the submitter to be confidential business information. The burden of identifying claimed confidential business information rests with the submitter, or, in meetings, with the participants from outside of government who wish to assert a claim of confidentiality.

(2) To assert a claim of confidentiality for all or any part of a written submission concerning a Registration Standard under development, the submitter must furnish three copies of the material. Two copies must be complete, with claimed confidential business information clearly marked in the text. Items in the document that are claimed confidential should be numbered consecutively throughout the document. The third copy must have the claimed confidential business information excised from the text without closing up or paraphrasing the remaining text. The deletions should be consecutively numbered to correspond to the numbering of the complete copies. Each copy must be marked on the cover as to whether it contains claimed confidential business information.

(3) Any written material received by the Agency that is not marked as confidential will be deemed to be nonconfidential, and may be made available through the public docket or otherwise disclosed without prior notice to the submitter.
