
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 155 - REGISTRATION STANDARDS AND REGISTRATION REVIEW
##### Subpart B - Docketing and Public Participation Procedures
###### ยง 155.32 Public docket.
####### Contents of docket.

(b)The docket will contain, within the time frames indicated, all of the following documents and information (except that information claimed to be confidential business information will not be included):

(1) An index of its contents (refer to paragraph (c) of this section).

(2) A copy of each comment received in response to the notice described in ยง 155.25 that pertains to a pesticide for which the notice indicated a Registration Standard was under development (within 10 working days after receipt by the Agency, or 15 working days if the submitter has asserted a confidential business information claim concerning the material).

(3) A copy of each memorandum of a meeting between the Agency and persons or parties outside of government, prepared in accordance with ยง 155.30(d) (within 10 working days after the meeting).

(4) A copy of each document, comment, item of correspondence or other written material concerning the Registration Standard submitted to the Agency by any person or party outside of government, whether in a meeting or separately (within 10 working days after receipt, or 15 working days if the submitter has asserted a confidential business information claim concerning the material).

(5) A copy of each document, proposal, or other item of written material concerning the Registration Standard provided by the Agency to any person or party outside of government (within 15 working days after the item is made available to such person or party).

(6) A copy of the Registration Standard;

(7) With respect to a Registration Standard for which the Agency has determined that a substantially complete chronic health and teratology data base exists, a copy of thenotice concerning availability of a proposed Registration Standard, and a copy of each comment received in response to that notice (within 10 working days after receipt by the Agency, or 15 working days if the submitter has asserted a confidential business information claim concerning the material).

(8) A copy of thenotice announcing the issuance of the Registration Standard (within 10 working days after the publication of the notice).
