
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### ยง 51.358 Test equipment.
####### Performance features of computerized emission test systems.

(a)The emission test equipment shall be certified by the program, and newly acquired emission test systems shall be subjected to acceptance test procedures to ensure compliance with program specifications.

(1) Emission test equipment shall be capable of testing all subject vehicles and shall be updated from time to time to accommodate new technology vehicles as well as changes to the program. In the case of OBD-based testing, the equipment used to access the onboard computer shall be capable of testing all MY 1996 and newer, OBD-equipped light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks.

(2) At a minimum, emission test equipment:

(i) Shall make automatic pass/fail decisions;

(ii) Shall be secured from tampering and/or abuse;

(iii) Shall be based upon written specifications; and

(iv) Shall be capable of simultaneously sampling dual exhaust vehicles in the case of tailpipe-based emission test equipment.

(3) The vehicle owner or driver shall be provided with a record of test results, including all of the items listed in 40 CFR part 85, subpart W as being required on the test record (as applicable). The test report shall include:

(i) A vehicle description, including license plate number, vehicle identification number, and odometer reading;

(ii) The date and time of test;

(iii) The name or identification number of the individual(s) performing the tests and the location of the test station and lane;

(iv) The type(s) of test(s) performed;

(v) The applicable test standards;

(vi) The test results, by test, and, where applicable, by pollutant;

(vii) A statement indicating the availability of warranty coverage as required in section 207 of the Clean Air Act;

(viii) Certification that tests were performed in accordance with the regulations and, in the case of decentralized programs, the signature of the individual who performed the test; and

(ix) For vehicles that fail the emission test, information on the possible cause(s) of the failure.
