
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 155 - REGISTRATION STANDARDS AND REGISTRATION REVIEW
##### Subpart C - Registration Review Procedures
###### ยง 155.50 Initiate a pesticide's registration review.
####### Submission of data and other information during the comment period.

(c)The Agency may identify, either in the notice published under paragraph (b) of this section, or at any other time, data or information that it does not have but which may be useful, if available, for consideration in the registration review. Any person may submit data or information in response to such identification. In order to be considered during a pesticide's registration review, the submitted data or information must meet the requirements listed below.

(1) In order to ensure that the Agency will consider data or information in the conduct of a registration review, interested persons must submit the data or information during the comment period established in the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section. The Agency may, at its discretion, consider data or information submitted at a later date.

(2) The data or information must be presented in a legible and useable form. For example, an English translation must accompany any material that is not in English and a written transcript must accompany any information submitted as an audiographic or videographic record. Written material may be submitted in paper or electronic form.

(3) Submitters must clearly identify the source of any submitted data or information.

(4) Submitters may request the Agency to reconsider data or information that the Agency rejected in a previous review. However, submitters must explain why they believe the Agency should reconsider the data or information in the pesticide's registration review.

(d) For the purposes of this subpart, the provisions of subpart B do not apply.
