
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 155 - REGISTRATION STANDARDS AND REGISTRATION REVIEW
##### Subpart C - Registration Review Procedures
###### ยง 155.53 Conduct of a pesticide's registration review.
####### Public participation during a pesticide's registration review.

(c)The Agency will generally make available for public review and comment a draft risk assessment for a pesticide if a new risk assessment has been conducted. The Agency will publish a notice in theannouncing the availability of the draft risk assessment and provide a comment period of at least 30 calendar days. The Agency will publish a notice in theannouncing the availability of a revised risk assessment, an explanation of any changes to the proposed document, and its response to comments. If the revised risk assessment indicates risks of concern, the Agency may, in the notice announcing the availability of the revised risk assessment, provide a comment period of at least 30 calendar days for the public to submit suggestions for mitigating the risk identified in the revised risk assessment.

(1) The Agency might not request comments on a draft risk assessment in cases where the Agency's initial screening of a pesticide indicates that it has low use/usage, affects few if any stakeholders or members of the public, poses low risk, and/or requires little or no risk mitigation. In such cases, the Agency will make a draft risk assessment available for public review and comment when it issues a proposed decision on the registration review case.

(2) If the Agency finds that it is not necessary to conduct a new risk assessment, it will issue a proposed decision on the registration review case as described in ยง 155.58.
