
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 156 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 156.10 Labeling requirements.
####### Contents of Directions for Use.

(2)The directions for use shall include the following, under the headings "Directions for Use":

(i) The statement of use classification as prescribed in paragraph (j) of this section immediately under the heading "Directions for Use."

(ii) Immediately below the statement of use classification, the statement "It is a violation of Federal law to use this product in a manner inconsistent with its labeling."

(iii) The site(s) of application, as for example the crops, animals, areas, or objects to be treated.

(iv) The target pest(s) associated with each site.

(v) The dosage rate associated with each site and pest.

(vi) The method of application, including instructions for dilution, if required, and type(s) of application apparatus or equipment required.

(vii) The frequency and timing of applications necessary to obtain effective results without causing unreasonable adverse effects on the environment.

(viii) Worker protection statements meeting the requirements of subpart K of this part.

(ix) Specific directions concerning the storage, residue removal and disposal of the pesticide and its container, in accordance with subpart H of this part. These instructions must be grouped and appear under the heading, "Storage and Disposal." This heading must be set in type of the same minimum sizes as required for the child hazard warning. (See table in ยง 156.60(b))

(x) Any limitations or restrictions on use required to prevent unreasonable adverse effects, such as:

(A) Required intervals between application and harvest of food or feed crops.

(B) Rotational crop restrictions.

(C) Warnings as required against use on certain crops, animals, objects, or in or adjacent to certain areas.

(D) For total release foggers as defined in ยง 156.78(d)(1), the following statements must be included in the "Directions for Use."

(E) For restricted use pesticides, a statement that the pesticide may be applied under the direct supervision of a certified applicator who is not physically present at the site of application but nonetheless available to the person applying the pesticide, unless the Agency has determined that the pesticide may only be applied under the direct supervision of a certified applicator who is physically present.

(F) Other pertinent information which the Administrator determines to be necessary for the protection of man and the environment.
