
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 156 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Environmental Hazard and Precautionary Statements
###### ยง 156.85 Non-target organisms.
####### Examples.

(b)The statements in this paragraph illustrate the types of hazard statements that EPA may require and the circumstances under which they are typically required. These statements are not comprehensive; other statements may be required if more appropriate to the formulation or use.

(1) If a pesticide intended for outdoor use contains an active ingredient with a mammalian acute oral LDof 100 mg/kg or less, the statement, "This pesticide is toxic to wildlife" is required.

(2) If a pesticide intended for outdoor use contains an active ingredient with a fish acute LCof 1 ppm or less, the statement, "This pesticide is toxic to fish" is required.

(3) If a pesticide intended for outdoor use contains an active ingredient with an avian acute oral LDof 100 mg/kg or less, or a subacute dietary LCof 500 ppm or less, the statement, "This pesticide is toxic to wildlife" is required.

(4) If either accident history or field studies demonstrate that the use of the pesticide may result in fatality to birds, fish or mammals, the statement, "This pesticide is extremely toxic to wildlife (fish)" is required.

(5) If a product is intended for or involves foliar application to agricultural crops, forests or shade trees, or mosquito abatement treatments, and contains a pesticide toxic to pollinating insects, the label must bear appropriate label cautions.

(6) If a product is intended for outdoor use other than aquatic applications, the label must bear the caution, "Keep out of lakes, ponds or streams. Do not contaminate water by cleaning of equipment or disposal of wastes."
