
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 156 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart H - Container Labeling
###### ยง 156.146 Residue removal instructions for nonrefillable containers - rigid containers with dilutable pesticides.
####### Pressure rinse instructions.

(c)The label of each dilutable pesticide product packaged in rigid nonrefillable containers may include one of the following sets of instructions, and one of them must be used if the statement in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is used. If one of these statements is included on the label, it must immediately follow the triple rinse instructions specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) For liquid dilutable pesticide products, use the following label instruction: "Pressure rinse as follows: Empty the remaining contents into application equipment or a mix tank and continue to drain for 10 seconds after the flow begins to drip. Hold container upside down over application equipment or mix tank or collect rinsate for later use or disposal. Insert pressure rinsing nozzle in the side of the container, and rinse at about 40 PSI for at least 30 seconds. Drain for 10 seconds after the flow begins to drip."

(2) For solid dilutable pesticide products, use the following label instruction: "Pressure rinse as follows: Empty the remaining contents into application equipment or a mix tank. Hold container upside down over application equipment or mix tank or collect rinsate for later use or disposal. Insert pressure rinsing nozzle in the side of the container, and rinse at about 40 PSI for at least 30 seconds. Drain for 10 seconds after the flow begins to drip."
