
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 156 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart H - Container Labeling
###### ยง 156.146 Residue removal instructions for nonrefillable containers - rigid containers with dilutable pesticides.
####### Triple rinse instructions.

(b)The label of each dilutable pesticide product packaged in rigid nonrefillable containers must include one of the following sets of instructions.

(1) For liquid dilutable pesticide products in containers small enough to shake, use the following instructions: "Triple rinse as follows: Empty the remaining contents into application equipment or a mix tank and drain for 10 seconds after the flow begins to drip. Fill the container 1/4 full with water and recap. Shake for 10 seconds. Pour rinsate into application equipment or a mix tank or store rinsate for later use or disposal. Drain for 10 seconds after the flow begins to drip. Repeat this procedure two more times."

(2) For solid dilutable pesticide products in containers small enough to shake, use the following instructions: "Triple rinse as follows: Empty the remaining contents into application equipment or a mix tank. Fill the container 1/4 full with water and recap. Shake for 10 seconds. Pour rinsate into application equipment or a mix tank or store rinsate for later use or disposal. Drain for 10 seconds after the flow begins to drip. Repeat this procedure two more times."

(3) For containers that are too large to shake, use the following instructions: "Triple rinse as follows: Empty remaining contents into application equipment or a mix tank. Fill the container 1/4 full with water. Replace and tighten closures. Tip container on its side and roll it back and forth, ensuring at least one complete revolution, for 30 seconds. Stand the container on its end and tip it back and forth several times. Turn the container over onto its other end and tip it back and forth several times. Empty the rinsate into application equipment or a mix tank or store rinsate for later use or disposal. Repeat this procedure two more times."
