
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 156 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart H - Container Labeling
###### ยง 156.146 Residue removal instructions for nonrefillable containers - rigid containers with dilutable pesticides.
####### Non-water diluent.

(d)(1) A registrant who wishes to require users to clean a container with a diluent other than water (e.g., solvents) must submit to EPA a written request to modify the residue removal instructions of this section. The registrant may not distribute or sell the pesticide with the modified residue removal instructions until EPA approves the request in writing.

(2) The registrant must indicate why a non-water diluent is necessary for efficient residue removal, and must propose residue removal instructions and disposal instructions that are appropriate for the characteristics and formulation of the pesticide product and non-water diluent. The proposed residue removal instructions must identify the diluent. If the Directions for Use permit the application of a mixture of the pesticide and the non-water diluent, the instructions may allow the rinsate to be added to the application equipment or mix tank. If the Directions for Use do not identify the non-water diluent as an allowable addition to the pesticide, the instructions must require collection and storage of the rinsate in a rinsate collection system.

(3) EPA may approve the request if EPA finds that the proposed instructions are necessary and appropriate.
