
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 156 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart H - Container Labeling
###### ยง 156.156 Residue removal instructions for refillable containers.
####### Residue removal instructions prior to container disposal.

(b)(1) Instructions for cleaning each refillable container prior to disposal are required. The residue removal instructions must be appropriate for the characteristics and formulation of the pesticide product and must be adequate to protect human health and the environment.

(2) Subject to meeting the standard in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the statement on residue removal instructions could include any one of the following:

(i) The refilling residue removal procedure developed by the registrant for the pesticide product.

(ii) Standard industry practices for cleaning refillable containers.

(iii) For pesticides that require dilution prior to application, the following statement: "To clean the container before final disposal, empty the remaining contents from this container into application equipment or a mix tank. Fill the container about 10 percent full with water. Agitate vigorously or recirculate water with the pump for 2 minutes. Pour or pump rinsate into application equipment or rinsate collection system. Repeat this rinsing procedure two more times."

(iv) Any other statement the registrant considers appropriate.
