
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 156 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart K - Worker Protection Statements
###### ยง 156.208 Restricted-entry statements.
####### Restricted-entry interval based on toxicity of active ingredient,Determination of toxicity category.

(c)-(1)A restricted-entry interval shall be established based on the acute toxicity of the active ingredients in the product. For the purpose of setting the restricted-entry interval, the toxicity category of each active ingredient in the product shall be determined by comparing the obtainable data on the acute dermal toxicity, eye irritation effects, and skin irritation effects of the ingredient to the criteria of ยง 156.62. The most toxic of the applicable toxicity categories that are obtainable for each active ingredient shall be used to determine the restricted-entry interval for that product. If no acute dermal toxicity data are obtainable, data on acute oral toxicity also shall be considered in this comparison. If no applicable acute toxicity data are obtainable on the active ingredient, the toxicity category corresponding to the signal word of any registered manufacturing-use product that is the source of the active ingredient in the end-use product shall be used. If no acute toxicity data are obtainable on the active ingredients and no toxicity category of a registered manufacturing-use product is obtainable, the toxicity category of the end-use product (corresponding to the signal word on its labeling) shall be used.
