
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 156 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart K - Worker Protection Statements
###### ยง 156.212 Personal protective equipment statements.
####### Personal protective equipment statements for pesticide handlers.

(d)(1) The table in paragraph (e) of this section specifies minimum requirements for personal protective equipment (as defined in ยง 170.240 of this chapter) and work clothing for pesticide handlers. This personal protective equipment requirement applies to any product that presents a hazard through any route of exposure identified in the table (acute dermal toxicity, skin irritation potential, acute inhalation toxicity, and eye irritation potential).

(2) The requirement for personal protective equipment is based on the acute toxicity category of the end-use product for each route of exposure as defined by ยง 156.62. If data to determine the acute dermal toxicity or the acute inhalation toxicity are not obtainable, the acute oral toxicity shall be used as a surrogate to determine the personal protective equipment requirements for that route of exposure. If data to determine the acute toxicity of the product by a specific route of exposure (including acute oral toxicity in lieu of acute dermal or acute inhalation toxicity) are not obtainable, the toxicity category corresponding to the signal word of the end-use product shall be used to determine personal protective equipment requirements for that route of exposure. If the signal word is "CAUTION," toxicity category III will be used.

(3) The minimum personal protective equipment and work clothing requirements specified in this section shall be included in a statement such as the following: "Applicators and other handlers must wear: (body protection statement); (glove statement, if applicable); (footwear statement, if applicable); (protective eyewear statement, if applicable); (respirator statement, if applicable)." The format of statements given in this paragraph is optional, but it is recommended for clarity.
