
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 157 - PACKAGING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Child-Resistant Packaging
###### ยง 157.24 Exemptions.
####### Exemption based upon technical factors.

(3)The Agency may grant an exemption from the requirements of this subpart based upon technical considerations. If granted, the exemption will be for a specified length of time, and will apply to other products of substantially similar composition and intended uses. A notice of the granting of an exemption will be issued in theIn considering whether to grant an exemption, the Agency will consider, among other things, the following:

(i) Whether the toxicity of the product is such that it should not be allowed to be distributed or sold except in child-resistant packaging.

(ii) Whether child-resistant packaging is technically feasible, practicable, or appropriate. An exemption may be granted if the Agency determines that any one of these criteria has not been met.

(iii) Whether the composition or use pattern of the product necessitates a particular form of packaging for proper use.

(iv) Whether child-resistant packaging that is technically feasible, practicable, and appropriate is available for the product or can reasonably be made available to the registrant in sufficient quantities to meet his packaging needs. This determination does not include a consideration of whether the packaging would be adaptable to a registrant's existing package type or packaging equipment.

(v) Whether the registrant has made a timely and good faith effort to obtain child-resistant packaging for the product.

(vi) If child-resistant packaging which is technically feasible, practicable, and appropriate is not yet available, when such packaging is likely to be available.

(4) An exemption may be withdrawn by the Agency at any time if the lack of child-resistant packaging results in serious illnesses or injuries to children. If the Agency determines that an exemption should be withdrawn, it will notify the registrant, stating the basis for its determination. The registrant will then have 30 days to request a hearing on the Agency's determination. Thereafter the Agency will decide whether to withdraw the exemption, and will notify the registrant of its decision.
