
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 157 - PACKAGING REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES AND DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Child-Resistant Packaging
###### ยง 157.36 Recordkeeping.

For as long as the registration of a pesticide product required to be in child-resistant packaging is in effect, the registrant must retain the records listed in this section. The registrant must, upon request by the Agency, make them available to Agency representatives for inspection and copying, or must submit them to the Agency.

(a) A description of the package, including a description of:

(1) The container and its dimensions and composition.

(2) The closure or child-resistant mechanism, including the name of its manufacturer and the manufacturer's designation for the closure or the physical working of the child-resistant packaging mechanism.

(b) A copy of the certification statement required by ยง 157.34.

(c) One of the following types of records verifying that each package for the product is child-resistant:

(1) Test data on the package based on the Consumer Product Safety Commission protocol in 16 CFR 1700.20.

(2) Test data, not conforming to the protocol in 16 CFR 1700.20, or a set of measurements on the package, together with an explanation as to why such data or measurements demonstrate that the package is child-resistant.

(3) Test data, whether or not conforming to the protocol in 16 CFR 1700.20, on a different package, together with an explanation of why such data demonstrate that the package being used is child-resistant.

(4) Written evidence that verifies that testing on the package has been conducted according to the protocol in 16 CFR 1700.20. Written evidence may be one of the following:

(i) A letter or literature from the packaging supplier;

(ii) A letter from the facility that conducted the testing; or

(iii) A specification in the contract between the registrant or applicant and the packaging supplier;

(5) When the container and closure are purchased separately by the registrant:

(i) Information of the kinds described in paragraphs (c) (1) through (4) of this section showing that the closure is child-resistant; and

(ii) A written explanation of why the container is child-resistant; and

(iii) Information showing that the closure and container are compatible with each other, and a written explanation of why the resulting package is child-resistant.

(6) A combination of the records listed in paragraphs (c) (1) through (5).

(d) Records verifying that the package meets the compatibility and durability standards of ยง 157.32(b) and (c).
