
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 158 - DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES
##### Subpart B - How To Use Data Tables
###### ยง 158.110 Required and conditionally required data.

The tables in this part use the descriptors R (required), CR (conditionally required), and NR (not required) as a general indication of the applicability of a data requirement. In all cases, the test notes referred to in the table must be consulted to determine the actual applicability of the data requirement.

(a) EPA requires data designated as "required"(R) for products with a given use pattern in order to evaluate the risks or benefits of a product having that use pattern under any conditions established by the test notes.

(b) Data designated as "conditionally required" (CR) for products with a given use pattern are required by EPA to evaluate the risks or benefits of a product having that use pattern if the product meets the conditions specified in the notes accompanying the requirement. The determination of whether the data must be submitted is based on the product's use pattern, physical or chemical properties, expected exposure of nontarget organisms, and/or results of previous testing (for example, tier testing). Applicants must evaluate each applicable test note for the conditions and criteria to be considered in determining whether conditionally required data must be submitted.

(c) Data not required for the Agency's assessment of the risks and benefits of a particular use pattern are designated "not required" (NR) in data tables.
