
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 158 - DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES
##### Subpart B - How To Use Data Tables
###### ยง 158.120 Determining data requirements.
####### Identifying required studies.

(b)To determine the specific kinds of data needed to support the registration use of each pesticide product, the applicant may:

(1) Refer to the applicable subpart(s) of this part. These subparts describe the data requirements including data tables for each subject area.

(2) Select the general use pattern(s) that best cover the use pattern(s) specified on the pesticide product label as explained in ยง 158.100. All applicable use patterns must be included.

(3) Proceed down the appropriate general use pattern column in the table and note which tests are required (R), conditionally required (CR), or not required (NR). Required and conditionally required studies are described in ยง 158.110.

(4) Review the notes for each requirement to determine its applicability to the specific product proposed for registration.

(5)(i) Proceed down the Test substance columns and determine the appropriate test substance needed for that study. If the data are intended to support a manufacturing-use product, use the MP column. If the data are intended to support an end-use product, use the EP column.

(ii) The test substances columns specify which substance is to be used for testing. Applicants should note that the substance that must be used when performing the study may or may not be the product itself. For example, the data from a certain study may be required to support the registration of an end-use product, but the test substance column may state that the particular test shall be performed using the technical grade of the active ingredient(s) in the end-use product.

(iii) Manufacturing-use products (MP) and end-use products (EP) containing a single active ingredient and no intentionally added inert ingredients are considered identical in composition to each other, and to the technical grade of the active ingredient (TGAI) from which they were derived. Therefore, the data from a test conducted using any one of these as the test substance is also suitable to meet the requirement (if any) for the same test to be conducted using either of the other substances.

(6) Refer to the Pesticide Assessment Guideline reference number for each study located in the first column. See ยง 158.70(c) for information pertaining to the guidelines and how to obtain copies.
