
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 158 - DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES
##### Subpart D - Product Chemistry
###### § 158.340 Discussion of formation of impurities.
####### Technical grade active ingredients and products produced by an integrated system.

(a)(1) Each impurity associated with the active ingredient which was found to be present in any analysis of the product conducted by or for the applicant.

(2) Each other impurity which the registrant or applicant has reason to believe may be present in his product at any time before use at a level ≥0.1 percent (1,000 ppm) by weight of the technical grade of the active ingredient, based on what he knows about the following:

(i) The composition (or composition range) of each starting material used to produce his product.

(ii) The impurities which the applicant knows are present (or believes are likely to be present) in the starting materials, and the known or presumed level (or range of levels) of these impurities.

(iii) The intended reactions and side reactions which may occur in the production of the product, and the relative amounts of byproduct impurities produced by such reactions.

(iv) The possible degradation of the ingredients in the product after its production but prior to its use.

(v) Post-production reactions between the ingredients in the product.

(vi) The possible migration of components of packaging materials into the pesticide.

(vii) The possible carryover of contaminants from use of production equipment previously used to produce other products or substances.

(viii) The process control, purification and quality control measures used to produce the product.
