
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 158 - DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES
##### Subpart D - Product Chemistry
###### ยง 158.325 Description of materials used to produce the product.
####### Products produced by an integrated system.

(b)(1) The information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section concerning each active ingredient that is derived from an EPA-registered product (if any).

(2) The following information concerning each active ingredient that is not derived from an EPA-registered product:

(i) The name and address of the producer of the ingredient (if different from the applicant).

(ii) Information about each starting material used to produce the active ingredient, as follows:

(A) Each brand name, trade name, or other commercial designation of the starting material.

(B) The name and address of the person who produces the starting material or, if that information is not known to the applicant, the name and address of each person who supplies the starting material.

(C) All information that the applicant knows (or that is reasonably available to him), concerning the composition (and if requested by the Agency, chemical or physical properties) of the starting material, including a copy of all technical specifications, data sheets, or other documents describing it.

(3) The information required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section concerning each inert ingredient.
