
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 158 - DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES
##### Subpart D - Product Chemistry
###### ยง 158.350 Certified limits.
####### Applicant proposed limits.

(c)(1) The applicant may propose a certified limit for an active or inert ingredient that differs from the standard certified limit calculated according to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) If certified limits are required for impurities, the applicants must propose a certified limit. The standard certified limits may not be used for such substances.

(3) Certified limits should:

(i) Be based on a consideration of the variability of the concentration of the ingredient in the product when good manufacturing practices and normal quality control procedures are used.

(ii) Allow for all sources of variability likely to be encountered in the production process.

(iii) Take into account the stability of the ingredient in the product and the possible formation of impurities between production and sale or distribution.

(4) The applicant may include an explanation of the basis of his proposed certified limits, including how the certified limits were arrived at (e.g., sample analysis, quantitative estimate based on production process), and its accuracy and precision. This will be particularly useful if the range of the certified limit for an active or inert ingredient is greater than the standard certified limits.
