
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 158 - DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES
##### Subpart R - Product Performance for Products Claiming Effectiveness Against Invertebrate Pests
###### ยง 158.1704 Performance standards for data acceptability.
####### Skin-applied insect repellent labeling claims.

(b)(1) For skin-applied insect repellent labeling claims, the performance standard must be greater than or equal to 2-hours complete protection time.

(2) Any testing required under this part which involves any human subjects must comply with all applicable requirements under 40 CFR part 26. For example, 40 CFR part 26 requirements are pertinent to the part 158 testing requirement if the testing involves intentional exposure of human subjects. Protocols for such testing must be submitted to EPA for review prior to study initiation. Those protocols determined by EPA to involve intentional exposure of human subjects also require review by EPA's Human Studies Review Board (HSRB)) prior to study initiation. If you are uncertain about the applicability of the 40 CFR part 26 requirements to this 40 CFR part 158 testing requirement or uncertain about the nature of your planned testing (such as, for example, whether the testing would involve intentional exposure of human subjects or whether the testing would be an observational study), you should contact the Agency prior to initiating the testing.
