
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 158 - DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES
##### Subpart W - Antimicrobial Pesticide Data Requirements
###### ยง 158.2200 Applicability.

Part 158, subpart W establishes data requirements for any pesticide product that is:

(a) A pesticide that is intended for use as an "antimicrobial pesticide" within the meaning of FIFRA sec. 2(mm)(1)(A), regardless of whether it also meets the criterion of FIFRA sec. 2(mm)(1)(B). That criterion excludes from the definition any antimicrobial product that is intended for a food-use requiring a tolerance or exemption under FFDCA sec. 408 or a food additive regulation or clearance under FFDCA sec. 409. EPA will apply this subpart to all products intended for an antimicrobial use, purpose or function; the exclusion in FIFRA sec. 2(mm)(1)(B) does not exclude products from the data requirements of this subpart.

(b) A product that bears both antimicrobial and non-antimicrobial uses or claims is subject to the data requirements for pesticides in subparts C through O, R, and U or V of this part with respect to its non-antimicrobial uses and claims, and to the requirements of this subpart with respect to its antimicrobial uses and claims.

(c) A wood preservative, including a product that is intended to prevent wood degradation problems due to fungal rot or decay, sapstain, or molds.

(d) An antifoulant, including a product that is intended to kill or repel organisms that can attach to underwater surfaces, such as boat bottoms.
