
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 158 - DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR PESTICIDES
##### Subpart W - Antimicrobial Pesticide Data Requirements
###### ยง 158.2240 Nontarget organisms.
####### i.e.

ii. When based on probabilistic modeling results: If the estimated 10th percentile 7Q10 Surface Water Concentration based on probabilistic modeling exceeds for 20 days or more the chronic concentration of concern (, one-tenth the NOAEC or NOAEL) determined in the fish early-life stage or invertebrate life cycle tests.

iii. If studies of other organisms indicate that the reproductive physiology of fish may be affected.

13. Not required when:

i. The octanol/water partition coefficients of the pesticide and its major degradates are less than 1,000;

ii. There are no potential exposures to fish and other nontarget aquatic organisms; or

iii. The hydrolytic half-life is less than 5 days at pH 5, 7, and 9.

14. Environmental chemistry methods used to generate data associated with this study must include results of a successful confirmatory method trial by an independent laboratory. Test standards and procedures for independent laboratory validation are available as addenda to the guideline for this test requirement.

15. Protocols must be approved by the Agency prior to the initiation of the study.

16. Data are required if the intended use pattern, and the physical/chemical properties and environmental fate characteristics of the antimicrobial indicate significant potential exposure, and, based on the results of the acute and chronic aquatic organism testing, significant impairment of nontarget aquatic organisms could result.

17. Data are required if the half-life of the pesticide in the sediment is equal to or less than 10 days in either the aerobic soil or aquatic metabolism studies, and if one or more of the following conditions are met:

i. The soil partition coefficient (K) is equal to or greater than 50 L/kg.

ii. The log Kis equal to or greater than 3.

iii. The Kis equal to or greater than 1,000.

18. Data are required if the EEC in sediment is greater than 0.1 of the acute LCECvalues and if one or more of the following conditions are met:

i. The soil partition coefficient (K) is equal to or greater than 50 L/kg.

ii. The log Kis equal to or greater than 3.

iii. The Kis equal to or greater than 1,000.

19. Sediment testing with estuarine/marine test species is required if the product is intended for direct application to the estuarine or marine environment or the product is expected to enter this environment in significant concentrations either by runoff or erosion, because of its expected use or mobility pattern.

20. For the all other use patterns category (as specified in ยง 158.2240(a)(5)), data are required only for beehive applications when the beehive (empty or occupied) may be treated.

21. A study similar to "Honey Bee Toxicity of Residues on Foliage" is required using treated wood instead of the foliage. Protocols must be approved by the Agency prior to the initiation of the study.
