
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 159 - STATEMENTS OF POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reporting Requirements for Risk/Benefit Information
###### § 159.155 When information must be submitted.

(a) The following reportable information must be received by EPA not later than the 30th calendar day after the registrant first possesses or knows of the information:

(1) Scientific studies described in § 159.165.

(2) Information about discontinued studies described in § 159.167.

(3) Human epidemiological and exposure studies described in § 159.170.

(4) Detection of a pesticide in or on food or feed described in § 159.178(a).

(5) Detection of metabolites, degradates, contaminates, impurities described in § 159.179.

(6) Failure of performance studies described in § 159.188(a)(2), (b)(2), and (c).

(7) Other information described in § 159.195.

(b) Reportable information concerning detections of pesticides in water described in § 159.178(b), adverse effects incidents described in § 159.184(a), and efficacy failure incidents described in § 159.188(a)(1) and (b)(1) must be reported according to the time frames set forth in § 159.184(d).

(c) EPA may, in its discretion, notify a registrant in writing of a different reporting period that will apply to specific types of reportable information or eliminate reporting requirements entirely. Such notification supersedes otherwise applicable reporting requirements set forth in this part.

(d) For purposes of this part, a registrant possesses or knows of information at the time any officer, employee, agent, or other person acting for the registrant first comes into possession of, or knows of, such information; provided that, such person performs any activities for the registrant related to the development, testing, sale or registration of a pesticide or the person could be reasonably expected to come into possession of information otherwise reportable under this part. In the case of information known to or possessed by an agent or other person acting for the registrant, a registrant is responsible for such information only if the agent or other person acquired such information while acting for the registrant.
