
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 159 - STATEMENTS OF POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reporting Requirements for Risk/Benefit Information
###### § 159.159 Information obtained before promulgation of the rule.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, information held by registrants on August 17, 1998 which has not been previously submitted to the Agency, but which is reportable under the terms of this part, must be submitted to the Agency if it meets any of the following criteria:

(1) Information is otherwise reportable under § 159.184, and pertains to an incident that is alleged to have occurred on or after January 1, 1994, and to have involved any of the following:

(i) A fatality or hospitalization of a human being.

(ii) A fatality of a domestic animal.

(iii) A fatality or fatalities to fish or wildlife, if the incident meets the criteria for the exposure type and severity category designation "W-A" set forth in § 159.184(c)(5)(iii).

(2) Submission of the information is requested by the Agency pursuant to § 159.195(c).

(b) If a registrant possesses information required to be submitted by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the registrant must submit on or before June 16, 1999 in accordance with § 159.156(c), (d), and (e) an inventory of the incidents that meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) of this section. Such an inventory must include the separate number of incidents that meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(1)(ii), and (a)(1)(iii) of this section, and for each type of incident, the total numbers of fatalities or hospitalizations involved.

(c) If a registrant possesses information required to be submitted by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the information must be submitted in accordance with any schedule contained in the Agency's request for the information.
