
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 159 - STATEMENTS OF POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reporting Requirements for Risk/Benefit Information
###### ยง 159.165 Toxicological and ecological studies.
####### Ecological studies.

(b)The results of a study of the toxicity of a pesticide to terrestrial or aquatic wildlife or plants if, relative to all previously submitted studies, they show an adverse effect under any of the following conditions:

(1) At levels 50 percent or more lower than previous acute toxicity studies with similar species, including determinations of the median lethal dose (LD), median lethal concentration (LC), or median effective concentration (EC).

(2) At lower levels in a chronic study than previous studies with similar species.

(3) In a study with a previously untested species the results indicate the chronic no observed effect level (NOEL) is 10 percent or less of the lowest LCor LDfor a similar species.

(4) For plants when tested at the maximum label application rate or less, if either of the following conditions is met:

(i) More than 25 percent of terrestrial plants show adverse effects on plant life cycle functions and growth such as germination, emergence, plant vigor, reproduction and yields.

(ii) More than 50 percent of aquatic plants show adverse effects on plant life cycle functions and growth such as germination, emergence, plant vigor, reproduction and yields.

(c) Results from a study that demonstrates any toxic effect (even if corroborative of information already known to the Agency), must be submitted if the pesticide is or has been the subject of a Formal Review based on that effect within 5 years of the time the results are received. Within 30 calendar days of the publication of a Notice of Commencement of a Formal Review in theall information which has become reportable due to the commencement of the Formal Review must be submitted.
