
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 159 - STATEMENTS OF POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reporting Requirements for Risk/Benefit Information
###### ยง 159.178 Information on pesticides in or on food, feed or water.
####### Water.

(b)(1) Information must be submitted if it shows that a pesticide is present above the water reference level in any of the following instances:

(i) Waters of the United States, as defined in ยง 122.2 of this chapter, except paragraph (d) of ยง 122.2.

(ii) Ground water.

(iii) Finished drinking water.

(2) If the lowest detectable amount of the pesticide is reported, the detection limit must also be reported.

(3) Information need not be submitted regarding the detection of a pesticide in waters of the United States or finished drinking water if the pesticide is registered for use in finished drinking water or surface water and the amount detected does not exceed the amounts reported by a registrant in its application for registration, as resulting in those waters from legal applications of the pesticide.

(4) Information need not be submitted concerning detections of pesticides in waters of the United States, ground water or finished drinking water if the substance detected is an inert ingredient, or a metabolite, degradate, contaminant or impurity of a pesticide product, unless EPA has established or proposed a maximum contaminant level (MCL) or health advisory level (HAL) for that substance, or has estimated a health advisory level based on an established reference dose (RfD) for that substance, and notified registrants of that level.

(5) Information to be submitted is the same as that required in ยง 159.184(c)(1), (2), (3), (4)(iv) and (v), and (5)(vi).
