
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 159 - STATEMENTS OF POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reporting Requirements for Risk/Benefit Information
###### ยง 159.184 Toxic or adverse effect incident reports.
####### Required information on individual incidents.

(c)To the extent that the registrant has any of the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section, the registrant must supply the information on each pesticide incident that meets the requirements outlined in paragraph (a) of this section. If the registrant acquires additional information concerning an incident previously reported to the Agency under this part, such information shall be reported if it meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (f) of this section. In the future, the Agency may by notice specify a format for such submissions. The Administrative, Pesticide, Circumstance and Exposure Type(s) of information must be reported for individual incidents, except where the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section allow for aggregated summary forms of reporting, or if EPA in the future grants permission in writing for alternative reporting formats. The registrant must also provide one or more Exposure Type and Severity categories and their designations for each incident as set forth in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, depending on the applicability of the criteria listed below. The criteria listed should be used in assigning a category. For example, an incident which allegedly caused serious but non-fatal effects to human beings and domestic animals might be designated "H-B: D-B." When a single incident involves multiple pesticides, the registrant need only report on their specific product. However, if a single incident involves more than one type of non-target organism-for example, both humans and domestic animals are involved-all appropriate available information dealing with each of the victims must also be reported. The informational items below are grouped by sections for ease in reporting pesticide incidents.
