
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 159 - STATEMENTS OF POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reporting Requirements for Risk/Benefit Information
###### ยง 159.184 Toxic or adverse effect incident reports.
####### i.e.

(F) If plant, type of plant life (, crop, forest, orchard, home garden, ornamental, forage).

(G) Formulation of pesticide if not indicated by brand name (granular, flowable).

(H) Distance from treatment site.

(I) If laboratory test(s) performed, list name of test(s) and results.

(J) If available, submit laboratory report(s).

(iv) If surface water:

(A) If raw water samples, water bodies sampled and approximate locations in each water body.

(B) If raw water samples, proximity of sampling locations to drinking water supply intakes and identities of systems supplied.

(C) If finished water samples, water supply systems sampled.

(D) If finished water samples, percent surface water source by specific surface water sources to water supply system(s).

(E) Sample type (grab, composite).

(F) Sampling times/frequency.

(G) Pesticides and degredates analyzed for, the detection limits, and the amount detected.

(H) Method of analysis.

(v) If ground water:

(A) Pesticides and degredates analyzed for, the analytical method used, the detection limits, and the amount detected.

(B) Sample date.

(C) Amount pesticide applied (lbs-ai/acre).

(D) Date of last application.

(E) Depth to water.

(F) Latitude/longitude.

(G) Soil series and texture (sand/silt/clay).

(H) Frequency of applications per year.

(I) Aquifer description (confined/unconfined).

(J) Method of application.

(K) Years pesticide used.

(L) Well use and well identifier.

(M) Screened interval.

(N) Annual cumulative rainfall (inches).

(O) Maximum rainfall and date.

(P) Cumulative irrigation (inches).

(Q) Hydrologic group.

(R) Hydraulic conductivity.

(S) pH.

(T) Organic matter or organic carbon (percent).

(vi) If property damage.

(A) Provide description.

(B) [Reserved]
