
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 159 - STATEMENTS OF POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reporting Requirements for Risk/Benefit Information
###### ยง 159.184 Toxic or adverse effect incident reports.
####### Other incident specific information.

(4)Pesticide incident reports must be submitted if the registrant possesses or receives any of the following information, and the incident meets the minimum requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section:

(i) If the incident involves humans:

(A) Route of exposure (skin, eye, respiratory, oral).

(B) List signs/symptoms/adverse effects.

(C) If laboratory tests were performed, list name of test(s) and results.

(D) If available, submit laboratory report(s).

(E) Time between exposure and onset of symptoms.

(F) Was adverse effect the result of suicide/homicide or attempted suicide/homicide.

(G) Type of medical care sought, (e.g., none, Poison Control Center, hospital emergency department, hospital inpatient, private physician, clinic, other).

(H) Demographics (sex, age, occupation).

(I) If female, pregnant?

(J) Exposure data: amount of pesticide; duration of exposure; weight of victim.

(K) Was exposure occupational; days lost due to illness.

(L) Was protective clothing worn (specify).

(ii) If domestic animal:

(A) Type of animal (e.g., livestock, poultry, bird, fish, household pet e.g., dog/cat etc.).

(B) List signs/symptoms/adverse effects.

(C) Breed/species (name and number affected, per adverse effect).

(D) Route of exposure (e.g., skin, eye, respiratory, oral).

(E) Time between exposure and onset of symptoms.

(F) If laboratory test(s) performed, list name of tests and results.

(G) If available, submit laboratory report(s).

(iii) If fish, wildlife, plants or other non-target organisms:

(A) List species affected, and number of individuals per species.

(B) List symptoms or adverse effects.

(C) Magnitude of the effect (e.g., miles of streams, square area of terrestrial habitat).

(D) Pesticide application rate, intended use site (e.g., corn, turf), and method of application.

(E) Description of the habitat and the circumstances under which the incident occurred.
