
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 159 - STATEMENTS OF POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reporting Requirements for Risk/Benefit Information
###### ยง 159.188 Failure of performance information.
####### Animals that pose a risk to human health.

(b)For the purposes of this section, any animal (including insects) poses a risk to human health if it may cause disease in humans, either directly or as a disease vector; produce toxins that are harmful to humans; or cause direct physical harm to humans. Information must be submitted which concerns either incidents described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or a study described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(1) Information which concerns an incident which meets all of the following conditions:

(i) The registrant has been informed by municipal, State, or Federal public health officials that a pesticide product may not have performed as claimed against target animals.

(ii) The possible failures of the pesticide to perform as claimed involved the use against animals that pose a risk to human health.

(iii) The registrant has or could obtain information concerning where the incident occurred, the pesticide or product involved, and the name of a person to contact regarding the incident.

(2) A study which indicates that the pesticide may not perform in accordance with one or more claims by the registrant regarding uses intended for control of animals that pose a risk to human health, including any of the public health pesticides identified in part 158 of this chapter.
