
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### ยง 51.373 Implementation deadlines.

I/M programs shall be implemented as expeditiously as practicable.

(a) Decentralized basic programs shall be fully implemented by January 1, 1994, and centralized basic programs shall be fully implemented by July 1, 1994. More implementation time may be approved by the Administrator if an enhanced I/M program is implemented.

(b) For areas newly required to implement basic I/M as a result of designation under the 8-hour ozone standard, the required program shall be fully implemented no later than 4 years after the effective date of designation and classification under the 8-hour ozone standard.

(c) All requirements related to enhanced I/M programs shall be implemented by January 1, 1995, with the following exceptions.

(1) Areas switching from an existing test-and-repair network to a test-only network may phase in the change between January of 1995 and January of 1996. Starting in January of 1995 at least 30% of the subject vehicles shall participate in the test-only system (in States with multiple I/M areas, implementation is not required in every area by January 1995 as long as statewide, 30% of the subject vehicles are involved in testing) and shall be subject to the new test procedures (including the evaporative system checks, visual inspections, and tailpipe emission tests). By January 1, 1996, all applicable vehicle model years and types shall be included in the test-only system. During the phase-in period, all requirements of this subpart shall be applied to the test-only portion of the program; existing requirements may continue to apply for the test-and-repair portion of the program until it is phased out by January 1, 1996.

(2) Areas starting new test-only programs and those with existing test-only programs may also phase in the new test procedures between January 1, 1995 and January 1, 1996. Other program requirements shall be fully implemented by January 1, 1995.

(d) For areas newly required to implement enhanced I/M as a result of designation under the 8-hour ozone standard, the required program shall be fully implemented no later than 4 years after the effective date of designation and classification under the 8-hour ozone standard.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) Areas that choose to implement an enhanced I/M program only meeting the requirements of ยง 51.351(h) shall fully implement the program no later than July 1, 1999. The availability and use of this late start date does not relieve the area of the obligation to meet the requirements of ยง 51.351(h)(11) by the end of 1999.

(g) On-Board Diagnostic checks shall be implemented in all basic, low enhanced and high enhanced areas as part of the I/M program by January 1, 2002. Alternatively, states may elect to phase-in OBD-I/M testing for one test cycle by using the OBD-I/M check to screen clean vehicles from tailpipe testing and require repair and retest for only those vehicles which proceed to fail the tailpipe test. An additional alternative is also available to states with regard to the deadline for mandatory testing, repair, and retesting of vehicles based upon the OBD-I/M check. Under this third option, if a state can show good cause (and the Administrator takes notice-and-comment action to approve this good cause showing), up to an additional 12 months' extension may be granted, establishing an alternative start date for such states of no later than January 1, 2003. States choosing to make this showing will also have available to them the phase-in approach described in this section, with the one-cycle time limit to begin coincident with the alternative start date established by Administrator approval of the showing, but no later than January 1, 2003. The showing of good cause (and its approval or disapproval) will be addressed on a case-by-case basis.

(h) For areas newly required to implement either a basic or enhanced I/M program as a result of being designated and classified under the 8-hour ozone standard, such programs shall begin OBD testing on subject OBD-equipped vehicles coincident with program start-up.
