
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 162 - STATE REGISTRATION OF PESTICIDE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - Regulations Pertaining to State Registration of Pesticides To Meet Special Local Needs
###### ยง 162.152 State registration authority.
####### New products.

(2)(i) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) and subparagraphs (b)(2) (ii) and (iii) of this section, a State may issue registrations to meet special local needs for the following types of new end-use products:

(A) A product which is identical in composition to a federally registered product, but which has differences in packaging, or in the identity of the formulator.

(B) A product which contains the same active and inert ingredients as a federally registered product, but in different percentages.

(C) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, a product containing a new combination of active, or active and inert, ingredients.

(ii) A State may register a new product only if each of the active ingredients in the new product is present because of the use of one or more federally registered products and if each of the inert ingredients in the new product is contained in a federally registered product.

(iii) A State may not register a new manufacturing-use product.

(iv) A State may register any use of a new product containing an ingredient described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if the new product registration is for a formulation or a use not included in the denial, disapproval, suspension, or cancellation, or if the federally registered use was voluntarily cancelled without a prior notice of intent to cancel by the Administrator. However, a formulation or use of such a new product which was not considered by the Administrator during such proceedings, or which was not the subject of a notice of intent to cancel, may be registered by a State only after the State consults with appropriate EPA personnel regarding the registration application.
