
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 162 - STATE REGISTRATION OF PESTICIDE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - Regulations Pertaining to State Registration of Pesticides To Meet Special Local Needs
###### ยง 162.153 State registration procedures.
####### Notification and submission of data.

(h)(1) Within ten working days from the date a State issues, amends, or revokes a registration, the State shall notify EPA, in writing, of the action. Notification of State registrations, or amendments thereto, shall include the effective date of the registration or amendment, a confidential statement of the formula of any new product, and a copy of the draft labeling reviewed and approved by the State, provided that labeling previously approved by the Administrator as part of a federal registration need not be submitted.

(2) Notification of State registrations or amendments shall be supplemented by the State sending to EPA a copy of the final printed labeling approved by the State within 60 days after the effective date of the registration or amendment.

(3) Notification of revocation of a registration by a State shall indicate the effective date of revocation, and shall state the reasons for revocation.

(4) The Administrator or his designee may request, when appropriate, that a State submit to EPA any data used by the State to determine that unreasonable adverse effects will not be caused when the State registers any use described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Within 15 working days of receipt of such a request from EPA, the State shall submit two copies of the requested data.
