
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 162 - STATE REGISTRATION OF PESTICIDE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - Regulations Pertaining to State Registration of Pesticides To Meet Special Local Needs
###### ยง 162.153 State registration procedures.
####### Labeling requirements.

(e)(1) Prior to issuing any registration, the State shall review the proposed labeling submitted with the application to determine compliance with this paragraph. In addition, the State shall review a copy of the final printed labeling as soon as practical after a registration is issued in order to verify compliance with this paragraph.

(2) For a new product, the State must, as a condition of the registration, require that the product be accompanied from the time it enters the stream of commerce by labeling meeting all applicable criteria of ยง 156.10 of this chapter. New product labeling must all contain:

(i) A statement identifying the State where registration is to be valid.

(ii) The special local need registration number assigned by the State.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, as a condition for a registration of an additional use of a federally registered product, the State must require that at the time of sale to users, labeling from the federally registered product be accompanied by supplemental labeling which contains:

(i) A statement identifying the State where registration is valid.

(ii) Directions for use to meet the special local need which satisfy the criteria of ยง 156.10(i) of this chapter.

(iii) The trade name of the product.

(iv) The name and address of the section 24(c) registrant.

(v) The EPA registration number of the federally registered product.

(vi) The special local need registration number assigned by the State.

(vii) A statement prohibiting use of the product in a manner inconsistent with all applicable directions, restrictions, and precautions found in the labeling of the federally registered product and accompanying supplemental labeling.

(4) When a federally registered product is already in the stream of commerce at the time the State issues a registration for an additional use of that product, the State must ensure that supplemental labeling for the additional use, meeting the criteria of paragraph (e)(3) of this section, is made available to purchasers and users of the product within 45 days of the date on which the State approves the final printed supplemental labeling.

(5) If a State classifies for restricted use a product or use registered by the State, which is not required to be so classified by paragraph (g) of this section, then the State may require supplemental labeling for the product or use containing additional appropriate precautions, and a statement that the product or use is for restricted use within that State.
