
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 162 - STATE REGISTRATION OF PESTICIDE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - Regulations Pertaining to State Registration of Pesticides To Meet Special Local Needs
###### ยง 162.155 Suspension of State registration authority.
####### Procedures for suspension.

(c)(1) Prior to suspending the registration authority of any State, the Administrator will notify the State lead agency, in writing, of the Administrator's intent to suspend, and of the specific grounds for suspension. The notice of intent will specify whether the suspension will be complete or partial, and will provide the State an opportunity to respond and a reasonable amount of time, not less than 30 days from the date the notice is received, in which to correct the deficiencies specified in the notice. If the State does not correct the specified deficiencies within the reasonable time allowed by the notice, or if the Administrator has not withdrawn the notice of intent before that time, the notice of intent will be published in theand the public given an opportunity to comment thereon.

(2) If requested by the affected State lead agency within 30 days of receipt of the notice of intent to suspend, an informal consultation between appropriate State and EPA officials will be held to discuss the proposed suspension. In such a case, the Administrator shall not make a final decision on the proposed suspension until after the consultation. The Administrator shall consider all relevant information presented at the consultation, or in any other appropriate manner, in determining whether to suspend the State's authority. If the Administrator determines, on the basis of such information, that the deficiencies listed in the notice of intent no longer exist, or will be corrected in a reasonable time, then the Administrator will withdraw, in writing, the notice of intent to suspend.

(3) Within ten days of the date a notice of intent to suspend is published in thea State may request a public hearing to consider the proposed suspension. If a hearing is requested, the Administrator will:

(i) Schedule a public hearing to be held in that State.

(ii) Publish in thea notice announcing the date, time, and location of the hearing.

(iii) Appoint a presiding officer who shall preside over the hearing.

(iv) Prescribe additional, appropriate procedures for the conduct of the hearing, including procedures for the presentation of relevant material evidence from the State, EPA, or members of the public who would be affected by the outcome of the hearing. Evidence may be presented in either oral or written form, at the discretion of the Administrator.

(4) Following the close of any hearing held under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the presiding officer shall make a recommended decision that the State's authority to register pesticides under sec. 24(c) of FIFRA be suspended, in whole or in part, or that the State's authority not be suspended and that the notice of intent to suspend be withdrawn.

(5) Any recommended decision made by a presiding officer under paragraph (c)(4) of this section may be appealed to the Administrator within 30 days after its issuance by the State or by EPA. Any recommended decision which is not appealed, or which the Administrator does not review on his own initiative, will become a final Agency action 30 days after its issuance.

(6) If no hearing is requested under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, or if a recommended decision is appealed to the Administrator under paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the Administrator shall issue a final order either suspending the State's authority to register pesticides under section 24(c) of FIFRA, in whole or in part, or withdrawing the notice of intent to suspend.

(7) Any final order suspending State registration authority, issued under paragraph (c) (5) or (6) of this section, will specify the grounds therefor and an effective date for the suspension. If the suspension is merely partial, the notice of suspension will specify the types of registrations which will not be recognized as valid under sec. 24(c). All final orders issued under paragraph (c) (5) or (6) will be published in the
