
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 162 - STATE REGISTRATION OF PESTICIDE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - Regulations Pertaining to State Registration of Pesticides To Meet Special Local Needs
###### ยง 162.155 Suspension of State registration authority.
####### Grounds for suspension.

(b)(1) The Administrator may suspend a State's registration authority due to lack of, or failure to exercise, adequate control by the State over its sec. 24(c) registration program. Adequate control includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:

(i) Access to appropriate scientific and technical personnel to review data and make determinations as required by ยง 162.153.

(ii) Registration procedures satisfying ยง 162.153.

(iii) Complete and accurate records of State registrations.

(iv) Adequate legal authority. (A) To deny, suspend, revoke, or amend a State registration when the registration is not in compliance with FIFRA, this subpart, or State law, or when necessary to prevent unreasonable adverse effects on the environment.

(B) To enter, at reasonable times, by consent, warrant, or other legal means, any establishment where pesticides are produced or held for distribution or sale, to inspect, sample, and observe whether pesticides are being produced or distributed in compliance with FIFRA, this subpart, State law, and the terms of any State registration.

(2) The Administrator may suspend a State's registration authority if the State fails to exercise the controls specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or if the State refuses to correct within a reasonable time any other significant deficiencies in its regulatory program, as specified by the Administrator in a notice of intent to suspend.
