
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix A to Subpart S of Part 51 - Calibrations, Adjustments and Quality Control
####### Gas calibration.,i.e.

(d)(1) On each operating day in high-volume stations, analyzers shall automatically require and successfully pass a two-point gas calibration for HC, CO, and CO2 and shall continually compensate for changes in barometric pressure. Calibration shall be checked within four hours before the test and the analyzer adjusted if the reading is more than 2% different from the span gas value. In low-volume stations, analyzers shall undergo a two-point calibration within seventy-two hours before each test, unless changes in barometric pressure are compensated for automatically and statistical process control demonstrates equal or better quality control using different frequencies. Gas calibration shall be accomplished by introducing span gas that meets the requirements of paragraph (I)(d)(3) of this appendix into the analyzer through the calibration port. If the analyzer reads the span gas within the allowable tolerance range (, the square root of sum of the squares of the span gas tolerance described in paragraph (I)(d)(3) of this appendix and the calibration tolerance, which shall be equal to 2%), no adjustment of the analyzer is necessary. The gas calibration procedure shall correct readings that exceed the allowable tolerance range to the center of the allowable tolerance range. The pressure in the sample cell shall be the same with the calibration gas flowing during calibration as with the sample gas flowing during sampling. If the system is not calibrated, or the system fails the calibration check, the analyzer shall lock out from testing.
