
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 164 - RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING HEARINGS, UNDER THE FEDERAL INSECTICIDE, FUNGICIDE, AND RODENTICIDE ACT, ARISING FROM REFUSALS TO REGISTER, CANCELLATIONS OF REGISTRATIONS, CHANGES OF CLASSIFICATIONS, SUSPENSIONS OF REGISTRATIONS AND OTHER HEARINGS CALLED PURSUANT TO SECTION 6 OF THE ACT
##### Subpart B - General Rules of Practice Concerning Proceedings (Other Than Expedited Hearings)
###### Prehearing Procedures and Discovery
####### ยง 164.50 Prehearing conference and primary discovery.
######## Preparation of questions.

(2)On determining an affirmative intent, the Administrative Law Judge shall direct all parties to file and serve, within a time period subject to his discretion, proposed questions of scientific fact accompanied by reasons supporting their submission to said committee. Within 10 days of the service of such proposed questions, together with their supporting reasons, any party may respond in writing to the proposed submission of the questions to the said committee. The Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether or not a reference of questions of scientific fact to said committee is necessary or desirable. In the event he decides such reference is necessary or desirable, he shall so inform the National Academy in writing, and shall prepare in his discretion appropriate questions. If any of the questions prepared are not in substance based upon the submissions of the parties, the Administrative Law Judge shall permit any party 10 days after their preparation to respond in writing to the proposed submission of said question or questions. He shall then determine whether such questions should be referred to the committee.
