
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 164 - RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING HEARINGS, UNDER THE FEDERAL INSECTICIDE, FUNGICIDE, AND RODENTICIDE ACT, ARISING FROM REFUSALS TO REGISTER, CANCELLATIONS OF REGISTRATIONS, CHANGES OF CLASSIFICATIONS, SUSPENSIONS OF REGISTRATIONS AND OTHER HEARINGS CALLED PURSUANT TO SECTION 6 OF THE ACT
##### Subpart B - General Rules of Practice Concerning Proceedings (Other Than Expedited Hearings)
###### Appeals
####### ยง 164.101 Appeals from or review of initial decisions.
######## Exceptions and request for oral argument.

(a)(1) Within 20 days after the filing of the Administrative Law Judge's initial decision, each party may take exception to any matter set forth in such decision or to any adverse order or ruling to which he objected during the hearing and may appeal such exceptions to the Environmental Appeals Board for decision by filing them in writing with the hearing clerk, including a section containing proposed findings of fact, conclusions, orders, or rulings. Within the same period of time each party filing exceptions and amicus curiae shall file with the hearing clerk a brief concerning each of the exceptions being appealed. The party shall include, in its brief, page references to the relevant portions of the record and to the Administrative Law Judge's initial decision.

(2) Within 7 days of the service of exceptions, and of a brief under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, any other party or amicus curiae may file and serve a brief responding to exceptions or arguments raised by any other party. Such brief shall include references to the relevant portions of the record. Such brief shall not, however, raise additional exceptions.

(3) Five copies of all material filed under this section shall be filed with the hearing clerk.
