
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 164 - RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING HEARINGS, UNDER THE FEDERAL INSECTICIDE, FUNGICIDE, AND RODENTICIDE ACT, ARISING FROM REFUSALS TO REGISTER, CANCELLATIONS OF REGISTRATIONS, CHANGES OF CLASSIFICATIONS, SUSPENSIONS OF REGISTRATIONS AND OTHER HEARINGS CALLED PURSUANT TO SECTION 6 OF THE ACT
##### Subpart D - Rules of Practice for Applications Under Sections 3 and 18 To Modify Previous Cancellation or Suspension Orders
###### ยง 164.131 Review by Administrator.

(a) The Administrator will review applications subject to this subpart D and supporting data submitted by the applicant to determine whether reconsideration of the Administrator's prior cancellation or suspension order is warranted. The Administrator shall determine that such reconsideration is warranted when he finds that: (1) The applicant has presented substantial new evidence which may materially affect the prior cancellation or suspension order and which was not available to the Administrator at the time he made his final cancellation or suspension determination and (2) such evidence could not, through the exercise of due diligence, have been discovered by the parties to the cancellation or suspension proceeding prior to the issuance of the final order.

(b) If after review of the application and other supporting data submitted by the applicant, the Administrator determines, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, that reconsideration of his prior order is not warranted, then the application will be denied without requirement for an administrative hearing. The Administrator shall publish notice in theof the denial briefly describing the basis for his determination as soon as practicable. Such denial shall constitute final agency action.

(c) If after review of the application and other supporting data submitted by the applicant, the Administrator determines, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, that reconsideration of his prior order is warranted, he will then publish notice in thesetting forth his determination and briefly describing the basis for the determination. Such notice shall announce that a formal public hearing will be held in accordance with 5 U.S.C. section 554. The notice shall specify: (1) The date on which the hearing will begin and end, (2) the issues of fact and law to be adjudicated at the hearing, (3) the date on which the presiding officer shall submit his recommendations, including findings of fact and conclusions, to the Administrator, and (4) the date on which a decision by the Administrator is anticipated.
