
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix A to Subpart S of Part 51 - Calibrations, Adjustments and Quality Control
####### Analyzer system,Calibration checks.

(c)-(1)(A) Upon initial operation, calibration curves shall be generated for each analyzer. The calibration curve shall consider the entire range of the analyzer as one curve. At least 6 calibration points plus zero shall be used in the lower portion of the range corresponding to an average concentration of approximately 2 gpm for HC, 30 gpm for CO, 3 gpm for NO, and 400 gpm for CO. For the case where a low and a high range analyzer is used, the high range analyzer shall use at least 6 calibration points plus zero in the lower portion of the high range scale corresponding to approximately 100% of the full-scale value of the low range analyzer. For all analyzers, at least 6 calibration points shall also be used to define the calibration curve in the region above the 6 lower calibration points. Gas dividers may be used to obtain the intermediate points for the general range classifications specified. The calibration curves generated shall be a polynomial of no greater order than 4th order, and shall fit the date within 0.5% at each calibration point.

(B) For all calibration curves, curve checks, span adjustments, and span checks, the zero gas shall be considered a down-scale reference gas, and the analyzer zero shall be set at the trace concentration value of the specific zero gas used.

(2) The basic curve shall be checked monthly by the same procedure used to generate the curve, and to the same tolerances.

(3) On a daily basis prior to vehicle testing-

(A) The curve for each analyzer shall be checked by adjusting the analyzer to correctly read a zero gas and an up-scale span gas, and then by correctly reading a mid-scale span gas within 2% of point. If the analyzer does not read the mid-scale span point within 2% of point, the system shall lock out. The up-scale span gas concentration for each analyzer shall correspond to approximately 80 percent of full scale, and the mid-point concentration shall correspond to approximately 15 percent of full scale; and

(B) After the up-scale span check, each analyzer in a given facility shall analyze a sample of a random concentration corresponding to approximately 0.5 to 3 times the cut point (in gpm) for the constituent. The value of the random sample may be determined by a gas blender. The deviation in analysis from the sample concentration for each analyzer shall be recorded and compared to the historical mean and standard deviation for the analyzers at the facility and at all facilities. Any reading exceeding 3 sigma shall cause the analyzer to lock out.
