
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart B - Nonrefillable Container Standards: Container Design and Residue Removal
###### ยง 165.25 Nonrefillable container standards.
####### Can I obtain a waiver from or a modification to any of the nonrefillable container standards?

(g)Yes, it is possible for you to obtain a waiver from or a modification to the nonrefillable container standards, as follows:

(1) EPA may waive or modify the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section regarding the DOT standards for pesticide products that are not DOT hazardous materials if EPA determines that an alternative (partial or modified) set of standards or pre-existing requirements achieves a level of safety that is at least equal to that specified in the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) EPA may waive or modify the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section regarding the DOT standards for pesticide products that are DOT hazardous materials if EPA determines that an alternative (partial or modified) set of standards or pre-existing requirements achieves a level of safety that is at least equal to that specified in the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. EPA will modify or waive the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section only after consulting with DOT to ensure consistency with DOT regulations and exemptions.

(3) EPA may approve a non-standard closure (that is, a closure not listed in paragraph (d) of this section) if EPA determines that both of the following conditions are satisfied:

(i) The non-standard closure is necessary for the proper mixing, loading, or application of the pesticide product.

(ii) The non-standard closure offers exposure protection to handlers during mixing and loading that is the same or greater than that provided by the standard closures.

(4) EPA may waive or modify the container dispensing capability standards in paragraph (e) of this section if EPA determines that at least one of the following conditions is satisfied:

(i) The product is typically removed from the container by a method other than pouring.

(ii) Compliance with the container dispensing capability standards would increase exposure to the pesticide container handler.

(5) EPA may waive or modify the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section regarding the residue removal standard if EPA determines that both of the following conditions are satisfied:

(i) The residue remaining in the container would not cause an unreasonable adverse effect on the environment; and

(ii) The product offers significant benefits and cannot be economically reformulated or repackaged.
