
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart C - Refillable Container Standards: Container Design
###### ยง 165.45 Refillable container standards.
####### How do I obtain a waiver from or a modification to any of the refillable container standards?

(h)To obtain a waiver from or a modification to any of the refillable container standards, you must submit a written request for a waiver or a modification to the EPA to the following address: Office of Pesticide Programs (7504P); U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; Ariel Rios Building; 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460. You cannot distribute or sell the pesticide product in a refillable container that does not comply with all of the refillable container standards unless and until EPA approves the request for the waiver or modification in writing. You must include two copies of the following information (which may be part of an application for registration or amended registration) with your written request:

(1) The name and address of the registrant; the date; and the name, title, signature, and phone number of the company official making the request.

(2) The name and EPA registration number of the pesticide product for which the waiver or modification is requested.

(3) A statement specifying the requirement or requirements from which you are requesting a waiver or a modification.

(4) A description of the refillable container or containers for which the waiver or modification is requested.

(5) Documentation or justification to demonstrate that the applicable waiver or modification criteria in paragraph (g) of this section are satisfied.
