
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart D - Standards for Repackaging Pesticide Products into Refillable Containers
###### ยง 165.63 Scope of pesticide products included.
####### How will EPA determine if an antimicrobial pesticide product otherwise exempted must be subject to the regulations in this subpart to prevent an unreasonable adverse effect on the environment?

(e)(1) EPA may determine that an antimicrobial pesticide product otherwise exempted by paragraph (c) of this section must be subject to the repackaging regulations in this subpart to prevent an unreasonable adverse effect on the environment if all of the following conditions exist:

(i) EPA obtains information, data or other evidence of a problem with the containers of a certain pesticide product or related group of products.

(ii) The information, data or other evidence is reliable and factual.

(iii) The problem causes or could reasonably be expected to cause an unreasonable adverse effect on the environment.

(iv) Complying with the container regulations could reasonably be expected to eliminate the problem.

(2) If EPA determines that an antimicrobial pesticide product otherwise exempted by paragraph (c) of this section must be subject to the repackaging regulations in this subpart to prevent an unreasonable adverse effect on the environment, EPA may require, by rule, that the product be repackaged in compliance with all or some of the requirements in this subpart. Alternatively, EPA may notify the applicant or registrant of its intent to make such a determination. After allowing the applicant or registrant a reasonable amount of time to reply, EPA may require, by notification and as a condition of registration, that the product be repackaged in compliance with all or some of the requirements in this subpart. For the purpose of the previous sentence, 60 days would be a reasonable amount of time to reply, although EPA may, in its discretion, provide more time. EPA may deny registration or initiate cancellation proceedings if the registrant fails to comply with the repackaging regulations within the time frames established by EPA in the rule or in its notification.
