
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart D - Standards for Repackaging Pesticide Products into Refillable Containers
###### ยง 165.65 Registrants who distribute or sell pesticide products in refillable containers.
####### What requirements must my individual establishments follow regarding repackaging a pesticide product into refillable containers?

(d)A refiller at your individual establishment that repackages a pesticide product into refillable containers for distribution or sale must comply with all of the following provisions.

(1) The establishment must be registered with EPA as a producing establishment as required by ยง 167.20 of this chapter.

(2) The refiller must not change the pesticide formulation unless the refiller has a registration for the new formulation.

(3) The refiller must repackage a pesticide product only into a refillable container that is identified on your description of acceptable containers for that pesticide product.

(4) The refiller may repackage any quantity of a pesticide product into a refillable container up to the rated capacity of the container. In addition, there are no general limits on the size of the refillable containers that the refiller can use.

(5) The refiller must have all of the following items at the establishment before repackaging a pesticide product into any refillable container for distribution or sale:

(i) The pesticide product's label and labeling.

(ii) The written refilling residue removal procedure for the pesticide product.

(iii) The written description of acceptable containers for the pesticide product.

(6) Before repackaging a pesticide product into any refillable container for distribution or sale, the refiller must identify the pesticide product previously contained in the refillable container to determine whether a residue removal procedure must be conducted in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. The refiller may identify the previous pesticide product by referring to the label or labeling.

(7) The refiller must inspect each refillable container according to paragraph (e) of this section.

(8) The refiller must clean each refillable container according to paragraph (f) or (g) of this section, if required by either paragraph.

(9) The refiller must ensure that each refillable container is properly labeled according to paragraph (h) of this section.

(10) The establishment must maintain records in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.

(11) The establishment must maintain records as required by part 169 of this chapter.

(12) The establishment must report as required by part 167 of this chapter.
