
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart D - Standards for Repackaging Pesticide Products into Refillable Containers
###### ยง 165.65 Registrants who distribute or sell pesticide products in refillable containers.
####### How must my individual establishments inspect refillable containers?

(e)Before repackaging a pesticide product into any refillable container, a refiller at your establishment must visually inspect the exterior and (if possible) the interior of the container and the exterior of appurtenances. The purpose of the inspection is to determine whether the container meets the necessary criteria with respect to continued container integrity, required markings, and openings. If the condition in paragraph (e)(1) of this section exists, the container fails the inspection and must not be refilled unless the container is repaired, reconditioned, or remanufactured in compliance with the relevant DOT requirement. If the condition in paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section exists (or both), the container fails the inspection and must not be refilled until the container meets the standards specified in subpart C of this part. The conditions are:

(1) The integrity of the container is compromised in at least one of the following ways:

(i) The container shows signs of rupture or other damage which reduces its structural integrity.

(ii) The container has visible pitting, significant reduction in material thickness, metal fatigue, damaged threads or closures, or other significant defects.

(iii) The container has cracks, warpage, corrosion or any other damage which might render it unsafe for transportation.

(iv) There is damage to the fittings, valves, tamper-evident devices or other appurtenances that may cause failure of the container.

(2) The container does not bear the markings required by ยง 165.45(a), (b) and (d), or such markings are not legible.

(3) The container does not have an intact and functioning one-way valve or tamper-evident device on each opening other than a vent, if required.
