
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart D - Standards for Repackaging Pesticide Products into Refillable Containers
###### ยง 165.65 Registrants who distribute or sell pesticide products in refillable containers.
####### What information must I develop?

(c)For each pesticide product distributed or sold in refillable containers, you must develop both of the following documents in writing.

(1) You must develop a refilling residue removal procedure that describes how to remove pesticide residue from a refillable container (portable or stationary pesticide container) before it is refilled.

(i) The refilling residue removal procedure must be adequate to ensure that the composition of the pesticide product does not differ at the time of its distribution or sale from the composition described in its confidential statement of formula that is required under FIFRA section 3.

(ii) If the refilling residue removal procedure requires the use of a solvent other than the diluent used for applying the pesticide as specified on the labeling under "Directions for Use," or if there is no diluent used for application, the refilling residue removal procedure must describe how to manage any rinsate resulting from the procedure in accordance with applicable Federal and State regulations.

(2) You must develop a description of acceptable refillable containers (portable or stationary pesticide containers) that can be used for distributing or selling that pesticide product.

(i) An acceptable container is one that you have determined meets the standards in subpart C of this part and is compatible with the pesticide formulation intended to be distributed and sold using the refillable container.

(ii) You must identify the containers by specifying the container materials of construction that are compatible with the pesticide formulation and specifying information necessary to confirm compliance with the refillable container requirements in subpart C of this part.
