
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart D - Standards for Repackaging Pesticide Products into Refillable Containers
###### ยง 165.65 Registrants who distribute or sell pesticide products in refillable containers.
####### What recordkeeping must my individual establishments do?

(i)Each of your individual establishments that repackages a pesticide product into refillable containers for distribution or sale must maintain all of the records listed in this section in addition to the applicable records identified in parts 167 and 169 of this chapter. The establishment must furnish these records for inspection and copying upon request by an employee of EPA or any entity designated by EPA, such as a State, another political subdivision or a Tribe.

(1) For each pesticide product distributed or sold in refillable containers, both of the following records must be maintained for the current operating year and for 3 years after that:

(i) The written refilling residue removal procedure for the pesticide product.

(ii) The written description of acceptable containers for the pesticide product.

(2) Each time a refiller at your establishment repackages a pesticide product into a refillable container and distributes or sells the product, the following records must be generated and maintained for at least 3 years after the date of repackaging:

(i) The EPA registration number of the pesticide product distributed or sold in the refillable container.

(ii) The date of the repackaging.

(iii) The serial number or other identifying code of the refillable container.
