
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart D - Standards for Repackaging Pesticide Products into Refillable Containers
###### ยง 165.67 Registrants who distribute or sell pesticide products to refillers for repackaging.
####### Under what conditions can I allow a refiller to repackage my pesticide product into refillable containers?

(b)You may allow a refiller to repackage your pesticide product into refillable containers and to distribute or sell such repackaged product under your existing registration if all of the following conditions are satisfied:

(1) The repackaging results in no change to the pesticide formulation.

(2) One of the following conditions regarding a registered refilling establishment is satisfied:

(i) The pesticide product is repackaged at a refilling establishment registered with EPA as required by ยง 167.20 of this chapter.

(ii) The pesticide product is repackaged by a refilling establishment registered with EPA as required by ยง 167.20 of this chapter at the site of a user who intends to use or apply the product.

(3) You have entered into a written contract with the refiller to repackage the pesticide product and to use the label of your pesticide product.

(4) The pesticide product is repackaged only into refillable containers that meet the standards of subpart C of this part.

(5) The pesticide product is labeled with the product's label with no changes except the addition of an appropriate net contents statement and the refiller's EPA establishment number.
