
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart D - Standards for Repackaging Pesticide Products into Refillable Containers
###### ยง 165.70 Refillers who are not registrants.
####### What requirements must I follow regarding repackaging a pesticide product into refillable containers?

(e)You must comply with all of the following provisions.

(1) Your establishment must be registered with EPA as a producing establishment as required by ยง 167.20 of this chapter.

(2) You must not change the pesticide formulation unless you have a registration for the new formulation.

(3) You must repackage a pesticide product only into a refillable container that is identified on the description of acceptable containers for that pesticide product provided by the registrant.

(4) You may repackage any quantity of a pesticide product into a refillable container up to the rated capacity of the container. In addition, there are no general limits on the size of the refillable containers that you can use.

(5) You must have all of the following items at your establishment before repackaging a pesticide product into any refillable container for distribution or sale:

(i) The written contract referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section from the pesticide product's registrant.

(ii) The pesticide product's label and labeling.

(iii) The registrant's written refilling residue removal procedure for the pesticide product.

(iv) The registrant's written description of acceptable containers for the pesticide product.

(6) Before repackaging a pesticide product into any refillable container for distribution or sale, you must identify the pesticide product previously contained in the refillable container to determine whether a residue removal procedure must be conducted in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. You may identify the previous pesticide product by referring to the label or labeling.

(7) You must inspect each refillable container according to paragraph (f) of this section.

(8) You must clean each refillable container according to paragraph (g) or (h) of this section, if required by either paragraph.

(9) You must ensure that each refillable container is properly labeled according to paragraph (i) of this section.

(10) You must maintain records in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.

(11) You must maintain records as required by part 169 of this chapter.

(12) You must report as required by part 167 of this chapter.

(13) The stationary pesticide containers at your establishment must meet the standards in ยง 165.45(f).

(14) You may be required to comply with the containment standards in subpart E of this part.
