
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix A to Subpart S of Part 51 - Calibrations, Adjustments and Quality Control
####### Analytical gases.

(14)Zero gases shall meet the requirements of ยง 86.114-79(a)(5) of this chapter. NOcalibration gas shall be a single blend using nitrogen as the diluent. Calibration gas for the flame ionization detector shall be a single blend of propane with a diluent of air. Calibration gases for CO and COshall be single blends using nitrogen or air as a diluent. Multiple blends of HC, CO, and COin air may be used if shown to be stable and accurate.

On a daily basis each purge flow meter shall be checked with a simulated purge flow against a reference flow measuring device with performance specifications equal to or better than those specified for the purge meter. The check shall include a mid-scale rate check, and a total flow check between 10 and 20 liters. Deviations greater than +/-5% shall be corrected. On a monthly basis, the calibration of purge meters shall be checked for proper rate and total flow with three equally spaced points across the flow rate and the totalized flow range. Deviations exceeding the specified accuracy shall be corrected. The dynamometer quality assurance checks required under paragraph (II) of this appendix shall also apply to the dynamometer used for purge tests.

(a) On a weekly basis pressure measurement devices shall be checked against a reference device with performance specifications equal to or better than those specified for the measurement device. Deviations exceeding the performance specifications shall be corrected. Flow measurement devices, if any, shall be checked according to paragraph III of this appendix.

(b) Systems that monitor evaporative system leaks shall be checked for integrity on a daily basis by sealing and pressurizing.
