
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart E - Standards for Pesticide Containment Structures
###### ยง 165.82 Scope of pesticide dispensing areas included.
####### What pesticide dispensing areas are subject to the regulations in this subpart?

(a)A pesticide dispensing area is subject to the containment regulations in this subpart and must have a containment pad that complies with the requirements of this subpart if any of the following activities occur:

(1) Refillable containers of agricultural pesticide are emptied, cleaned or rinsed.

(2) Agricultural pesticides are dispensed from a stationary pesticide container designed to hold undivided quantities of agricultural pesticides equal to or greater than 500 gallons (1,890 liters) of liquid pesticide or equal to or greater than 4,000 pounds (1,818 kilograms) of dry pesticide for any purpose, including refilling or emptying for cleaning. This applies when pesticide is dispensed from the container into any vessel, including, but not limited to:

(i) Refillable containers;

(ii) Service containers;

(iii) Transport vehicles;

(iv) Application equipment.

(3) Agricultural pesticides are dispensed from a transport vehicle for purposes of filling a refillable container.

(4) Agricultural pesticides are dispensed from any other container for the purpose of refilling a refillable container for sale or distribution. Containment requirements do not apply if the agricultural pesticide is dispensed from such a container for use, application or purposes other than refilling for sale or distribution.
