
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 165 - PESTICIDE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
##### Subpart E - Standards for Pesticide Containment Structures
###### ยง 165.85 Design and capacity requirements for new structures.
####### For new containment pads in pesticide dispensing areas, what are the specific design requirements?

(e)Each new containment pad in a pesticide dispensing area must:

(1) Be designed and constructed to intercept leaks and spills of pesticides which may occur in the pesticide dispensing area.

(2) Have enough surface area to extend completely beneath any container on it, with the exception of transport vehicles dispensing pesticide for sale or distribution to a stationary pesticide container. For such vehicles, the surface area of the containment pad must accommodate at least the portion of the vehicle where the delivery hose or device couples to the vehicle. This exception does not apply to transport vehicles that are used for prolonged storage or repeated on-site dispensing of pesticides.

(3) Allow, in conjunction with its sump, for removal and recovery of spilled, leaked, or discharged material and rainfall, such as by a manually activated pump. Automatically-activated pumps which lack automatic overflow cutoff switches for the receiving container are prohibited.

(4) Have its surface sloped toward an area where liquids can be collected for removal, such as a liquid-tight sump or a depression, in the case of a single-pour concrete pad.
