
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 168 - STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart B - Advertising
###### ยง 168.22 Advertising of unregistered pesticides, unregistered uses of registered pesticides and FIFRA section 24(c) registrations.

(a) FIFRA sections 12(a)(1) (A) and (B) make it unlawful for any person to "offer for sale" any pesticide if it is unregistered, or if claims made for it as part of its distribution or sale differ substantially from any claim made for it as part of the statement required in connection with its registration under FIFRA section 3. EPA interprets these provisions as extending to advertisements in any advertising medium to which pesticide users or the general public have access.

(b) EPA regards it as unlawful for any person who distributes, sells, offers for sale, holds for sale, ships, delivers for shipment, or receives and (having so received) delivers or offers to deliver any pesticide, to place or sponsor advertisements which recommend or suggest the purchase or use of:

(1) Any pesticide for a use authorized under a FIFRA section 5 experimental use permit (EUP).

(2) Any pesticide for a use authorized under a FIFRA section 18 emergency exemption, except for advertisements that:

(i) Are placed in media which address primarily persons in the geographical area to which the exemption applies.

(ii) State the name and address of one or more retail dealers who stock the pesticide.

(iii) Contain a prominent notice of the limitations on use under the section 18 emergency exemption.

(3) Any pesticide for any use authorized only by a FIFRA section 24(c) special local need registration, unless the advertisement contains a prominent notice of the limitations on use under the section 24(c) registrations.

(4) Any unregistered pesticide for any use unless the advertisement is one permitted by paragraph (b) (2) or (3) of this section.

(5) A registered pesticide product for an unregistered use, unless the advertisement is one permitted by paragraph (b) (2) or (3) of this section. However, as a matter of policy, the Agency will not regard as unlawful the advertisement of uses permitted by FIFRA section 2(ee) provided the product is not an antimicrobial pesticide targeted against human pathogens (see 51 FR 19174; May 28, 1986).

(c) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a "prominent notice of the limitations on use" is one which sets forth the limitations on use in a manner reasonably likely to be understood by persons to whom the advertisement is addressed. For printed advertising, this criterion will be met by a legend in 6-point or larger type.
