
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 168 - STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides
###### § 168.70 Unregistered export pesticide products.

(a) Any export pesticide product that does not meet the terms of § 168.69 is an unregistered export pesticide product for purposes of this subpart.

(b) Each unregistered export pesticide product must bear labeling that complies with all requirements of this section or collateral labeling in compliance with § 168.66.

(1) The labeling must comply with all of the prominence and legibility requirements of § 156.10(a)(2) of this chapter.

(2) The labeling must comply with all the language requirements in §§ 168.69(c) and 156.10(a)(3) of this chapter.

(3) The labeling must bear the following information:

(i) The name and address of the producer, in accordance with the requirements of § 156.10(c) of this chapter;

(ii) The net weight or measure of contents, in accordance with the requirements of § 156.10(d) of this chapter;

(iii) The pesticide producing establishment number, in accordance with the requirements of § 156.10(f) of this chapter;

(iv) An ingredients statement, in accordance with the requirements of § 156.10(g) of this chapter, except that:

(A) The ingredients statement need not appear in a second language besides English if English is the official or predominant language in the importing country and the country of final destination, if known; and

(B) An export pesticide product intended solely for research and development purposes, (and which bears the statement "For research and development purposes only. Not for distribution, sale, or use," or similar language) may bear coded ingredient information to protect confidentiality.

(v) Human hazard and precautionary statements in accordance with the requirements of subpart D of part 156 of this chapter. The statements must be true and accurate translations of the English statements.

(vi) The statement "Not Registered for Use in the United States of America," which may be amplified by additional statements accurately describing the reason(s) why the export pesticide product is not registered in the United States, or is not registered for particular uses in the United States.

(c) This section also applies to all unregistered pesticide products and devices that are intended solely for export and that are transferred, distributed, or sold between registered establishments operated by the same producer according to § 152.30(a) of this chapter if:

(1) The transfer, distribution or sale occurs between a point in the United States and a point outside the United States, or

(2) The transfer occurs within the United States solely for the purpose of export from the United States.
