
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 168 - STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides
###### ยง 168.75 Procedures for exporting unregistered pesticides - purchaser acknowledgement statements.
####### Packaging.

(2)(i) Certain changes may be made to a product's labeling or packaging without affecting the registration status of the product, as specified in ยง 152.46(b) of this chapter and this policy. These changes include any changes in package size and label net contents, provided no change in use directions or requirement for child-resistant packaging would be necessary for the product to be registered for use in the United States. For example, if child-resistant packaging is required for a particular pesticide product in the United States, and the product will be exported without child-resistant packaging, the product would be considered unregistered and therefore subject to all the requirements of FIFRA section 17(a), as described in ยง 168.75 of this chapter including the requirement for a purchaser acknowledgement statement.

(ii) If an exporter needed to repackage a product in a size to meet a foreign purchaser's specifications, that modification would not affect the registration status of the export product. Other modifications to the label used for export purposes which will not affect the export product's registration status are: the use of metric units for net contents, dosages, and other numeric expressions; the use of a different format for the label, provided that the information does not contradict the U.S. label; revision of non-mandatory U.S. label statements, consistent with 40 CFR part 156, including additions or changes required by other Federal statutes or regulations; a change of the name or address of the registrant, except for a change resulting from transfer of ownership, which requires that a registrant keep his name and address current with the Agency; and any correction of typographical or printing errors that appeared on the U.S. labeling. (See ยง 152.46(b)).
