
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 168 - STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides
###### ยง 168.75 Procedures for exporting unregistered pesticides - purchaser acknowledgement statements.
####### Contents of the purchaser acknowledgement statements.

(1)The purchaser acknowledgement statement must include the following information in a format that is clearly understandable:

(i) Name, address, and EPA identification number, if applicable, of the exporter.

(ii) Name and address of the foreign purchaser.

(iii) Identity of the product and the active ingredient(s), including:

(A) The Chemical Abstract Services (CAS) Registry number for each active ingredient.

(B) The chemical nomenclature for each active ingredient as used by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemists (IUPAC).

(C) Other known chemical or common names; or if the export involves a research product, a code name or identification number that can be used by EPA to identify the product from the exporter's records. If a code name or identification number is used, additional information must be attached to the certification statement submitted with the purchaser acknowledgement statement which will enable EPA to identify the product. This attached information may be claimed as confidential, and EPA will not forward this information with the purchaser acknowledgement statement to foreign governments.
