
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 168 - STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides
###### ยง 168.75 Procedures for exporting unregistered pesticides - purchaser acknowledgement statements.
####### Annual reporting procedures.

(ii)Unless the exporter chooses to follow the per-shipment reporting option described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the exporter must follow the procedures for annual summary reporting which include the requirement of a purchaser acknowledgement statement for the first shipment each calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser, and an annual summary of shipments to that purchaser. The annual summary reporting procedures are as follows:

(A) Prior to the first shipment each calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser in a foreign country, the exporter must provide the foreign purchaser with instructions about the required information on a purchaser acknowledgement statement, and inform the foreign purchaser that the pesticide product cannot be exported from the United States until the exporter has received from the foreign purchaser a properly completed, signed, and dated purchaser acknowledgement statement.

(B) The exporter must obtain, prior to the first shipment each calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser in a foreign country, a signed purchaser acknowledgement statement which contains the information set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(C) The exporter must sign a statement certifying that export did not take place until a signed purchaser acknowledgement statement was received, indicating that this statement is for the first shipment to a particular purchaser in a specific country for that calendar year, and that the exporter will meet all the purchaser acknowledgement statement requirements as described in this paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. The exporter must also specify the chemical identity of any research product which is referred to by code in the purchaser acknowledgement statement. The information regarding the specific identity of research products, which may be included in the statement or consist of an attachment to the certification, may be claimed as confidential.

(D) The exporter must submit the signed acknowledgement statement from the foreign purchaser, and the accompanying certification by the exporter including attachments, to EPA within 7 working days of the exporter's receipt of the purchaser acknowledgement statement, or by the date of export, whichever occurs first. This information must be transmitted to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b), Attention: Purchaser Acknowledgement Statement.

(E) The exporter, who has chosen to comply with the requirements of this paragraph instead of providing per-shipment purchaser acknowledgement statements in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, must submit an annual summary report to EPA. An annual summary report is required for each unregistered pesticide exported within the preceding calendar year. The report must be in writing, signed by the exporter, and include the following information:
