
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 168 - STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides
###### ยง 168.75 Procedures for exporting unregistered pesticides - purchaser acknowledgement statements.
####### Labeling statements.

(3)The following statements which appear on any of the product labels or labeling will not affect the status of the product, provided that they do not contradict the approved FIFRA section 3 labeling:

(i) It is permissible to add explanatory language which accurately explains the meaning of a use classification. For example, the statement "restricted use pesticide" may be expanded to read: "Restricted in the United States of America to use by certified applicators" or "Restricted Use Pesticide. In The United States this product is restricted to use by applicators determined by each state to be competent in pesticide application and the human health and environmental consequences of misuse." If the explanatory language falsely represents or is misleading regarding the U.S. use classification, the product will be considered misbranded. In addition, a use classification can only be listed if one has been assigned pursuant to the U.S. registration.

(ii) An exporter who is also the manufacturer of a U.S. registered pesticide may add new uses to the label of that product for export purposes, without triggering the requirements of section 17(a)(2), as long as the new uses are within the same general use patterns as those for the registered product. The general pesticide use patterns are: terrestrial food crop and terrestrial non-food crop; greenhouse food crop and greenhouse nonfood crop; aquatic food crop and aquatic nonfood crop' indoor use' and forestry use. Adding new uses to the label which change the use pattern, such as changes from nonfood to food use, outdoor to indoor use, or terrestrial to aquatic use, render the product unregistered and subject to the requirements of section 17 for unregistered products. If the new use added to the label is a food or feed use, a tolerance must already be established for the use of that pesticide in or on that commodity.
