
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 168 - STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides
###### ยง 168.75 Procedures for exporting unregistered pesticides - purchaser acknowledgement statements.
####### Per-shipment purchaser acknowledgment statement.

(i)Unless the exporter chooses to follow the procedures described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for the annual reporting procedures, the exporter must obtain and submit to EPA, a signed purchaser acknowledgement statement prior to each shipment of an unregistered pesticide according to the following procedures:

(A) Prior to each shipment in a calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser in a foreign country, the exporter must provide the foreign purchaser with instructions about the required information on a purchaser acknowledgement statement, and inform the foreign purchaser that the pesticide product cannot be exported from the United States until the exporter has received from the foreign purchaser a properly completed, signed, and dated acknowledgment statement.

(B) The exporter must obtain, prior to each shipment in a calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser in a foreign country, a signed purchaser acknowledgment statement which contains the information set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(C) The exporter must sign a statement certifying that export did not take place until a signed purchaser acknowledgement statement was received. The exporter must also specify the chemical identity of any research product which is referred to by code in the purchaser acknowledgement statement. The information regarding the specific identity of research products, which may be included in the statement or consist of an attachment to the certification, may be claimed as confidential.

(D) The exporter must submit the signed acknowledgement statement from the foreign purchaser, and the accompanying certification by the exporter including attachments, to EPA within 7 working days of the exporter's receipt of the purchaser acknowledgement statement, or by the date of export, whichever occurs first. This information must be transmitted to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b), Attention: Purchaser Acknowledgement Statement.
