
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 168 - STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides
###### ยง 168.75 Procedures for exporting unregistered pesticides - purchaser acknowledgement statements.
####### Research and development products.

(5)An unregistered pesticide product exported only for research and development purposes is subject to the notification requirements of this section, unless its use fits within the criteria described in this paragraph.

(i) An unregistered pesticide product exported solely for research and development purposes will not be considered to be in violation of the notification requirements if the export of the research and development product:

(A) Would not involve land uses of more than 10 acres (4.05 hectares), or be used on or affect food or feed crops which are intended for consumption.

(B) Would not involve aquatic uses of more than 1 acre (0.405 hectares), or any aquatic uses which involve water used for irrigation, drinking or recreation, or be used on or affect plants or animals taken for food or feed from such waters.

(C) Would not involve tests on animals intended for food or feed.

(ii) Shipments to different purchasers, to different countries of final destination, or which occur more than a calendar year apart will be evaluated separately. When determining whether total shipments exceed the criteria described in this paragraph, EPA will evaluate the total amount of shipments by a single exporter during a calendar year for use in a particular country.

(iii) An exporter bears the burden of demonstrating that the product meets these criteria before the research product is shipped. This may be met by documenting before the product is shipped and maintaining records for the time period required by ยง 169.2(h) of this chapter from the date of the last shipment relevant to such records. The records to be maintained consist of:

(A) The identity of the purchaser and country of intended use of the research product.

(B) The amount shipped.

(C) The intended research use by the purchaser, including the type of application site, rate of application, and measures taken for protection of humans from direct or dietary exposure.
