
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 168 - STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
##### Subpart D - Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides
###### § 168.75 Procedures for exporting unregistered pesticides - purchaser acknowledgement statements.
####### Composition.

(4)EPA will not treat a registered product as unregistered for the purposes of the purchaser acknowledgement statement requirement under the following specific circumstances:

(i) The formula of the exported product is within certified limits of the formula of the U.S. registered product.

(ii) An exporter, who is also the manufacturer of a U.S. registered pesticide, may decrease the percentage of the active ingredient(s) of that product by adding a List 4 inert ingredient, without causing the product to be treated as "unregistered" and triggering the requirement to obtain a purchaser acknowledgement statement as a condition for export. In EPA's Policy Statement on Inert Ingredients in Pesticide Products, EPA included inert ingredients on List 4-a list of inert ingredients posing minimal hazard or risk-if the inert ingredients were generally regarded as innocuous. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to those pesticide products intended for public health uses which are required or conditionally required to submit efficacy data pursuant to § 158.400 or § 161.640 of this chapter, as applicable. Any differences in formula or composition caused by adding a List 4 inert must be reflected in records which show the complete formula of the export product in accordance with the requirements of § 169.2 and this policy.

(iii) A change in the color or fragrance of the export product will not affect the product's registration status as long as the following conditions are met. The change in color must result only from the addition of a dye included on the list of the chemicals exempted from the requirement of a tolerance at 40 CFR 180.910, 180.920, 180.930, and 180.950, and the dye must not be a List 1 inert. (List 1 inerts are those inerts which the Agency has identified as presenting toxicological concerns. The classification of inerts is explained in EPA's Policy Statement on Inert Ingredients in Pesticide Products. The change in fragrance must result only from the addition of a chemical included on the list of the chemicals exempted from the requirement of a tolerance at 40 CFR 180.910, 180.920, 180.930, and 180.950, and the chemical must not be a List 1 inert. The change in fragrance must not result in a pesticide product containing a food or food-like fragrance. (See "Food Fragrances in Pesticide Formulations," EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs Policy and Criteria Notice number 2155.1, November 20, 1975.) Any difference in color or fragrance of the export product in accordance with this section must be reflected in records which show the complete formula of the export product in accordance with the requirements of § 169.2 and this policy.
