
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix B to Subpart S of Part 51 - Test Procedures
####### Test sequence.

(b)(1) The test sequence shall consist of a first-chance test and a second-chance test as follows:

(i) The first-chance test, as described under paragraph (II)(c) of this appendix, shall consist of an idle mode followed by a high-speed mode.

(ii) The second-chance high-speed mode, as described under paragraph (II)(c) of this appendix, shall immediately follow the first-chance high-speed mode. It shall be performed only if the vehicle fails the first-chance test. The second-chance idle mode, as described under paragraph (II)(d) of this appendix, shall follow the second-chance high-speed mode and be performed only if the vehicle fails the idle mode of the first-chance test.

(2) The test sequence shall begin only after the following requirements are met:

(i) The vehicle shall be tested in as-received condition with the transmission in neutral or park and all accessories turned off. The engine shall be at normal operating temperature (as indicated by a temperature gauge, temperature lamp, touch test on the radiator hose, or other visual observation for overheating).

(ii) For all pre-1996 model year vehicles, a tachometer shall be attached to the vehicle in accordance with the analyzer manufacturer's instructions. For 1996 and newer model year vehicles the OBD data link connector will be used to monitor RPM. In the event that an OBD data link connector is not available or that an RPM signal is not available over the data link connector, a tachometer shall be used instead.

(iii) The sample probe shall be inserted into the vehicle's tailpipe to a minimum depth of 10 inches. If the vehicle's exhaust system prevents insertion to this depth, a tailpipe extension shall be used.

(iv) The measured concentration of CO plus COshall be greater than or equal to six percent.
