
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 169 - BOOKS AND RECORDS OF PESTICIDE PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION
##### ยง 169.2 Maintenance of records.

All producers of pesticides, devices, or active ingredients used in producing pesticides subject to this Act, including pesticides produced pursuant to an experimental use permit and pesticides, devices, and pesticide active ingredients produced for export, shall maintain the following records:

(a) Records showing the product name, EPA Registration Number, Experimental Permit Number if the pesticide is produced under an Experimental Use Permit, amounts per batch and batch identification (numbers, letters, etc.) of all pesticides produced. In cases where the product is an active ingredient used in producing a pesticide or where the product is a pesticide which is not registered, is not the subject of an application for registration, or is not produced under an Experimental Use Permit, the records shall also show the complete formula. The batch identification shall appear on all production control records. These records shall be retained for a period of two (2) years.

(b) Records showing the brand names and quantities of devices produced. These records shall be retained for a period of two (2) years.

(c) Records showing the following information regarding the receipt, by the producer, of all pesticides, devices, and active ingredients used in producing pesticides:

(1) Brand name of the pesticide or device, or common or chemical name of the pesticide active ingredient;

(2) Name and address of shipper;

(3) Name of delivering carrier;

(4) Date received; and

(5) Quantities received.

(d) Records showing the following information regarding the shipment of all pesticides, devices, and active ingredients used in producing pesticides:

(1) Brand name of pesticide or device, or the common or chemical name of the pesticide active ingredient;

(2) Name and address of consignee;

(3) Where the pesticide is produced pursuant to an experimental use permit (FIFRA section 5), a special exemption (section 18), or a special local need (section 24), the information required under these sections and any regulations promulgated thereto regarding the distribution of such pesticides;

(4) Name of originating carrier;

(5) Date shipped or delivered for shipment; and

(6) Quantities shipped or delivered for shipment.

(e) Inventory records with respect to the types and amounts of pesticides or pesticide active ingredients, or quantities of devices in stock which he has produced. These records may be disposed of when a more current inventory record is prepared.

(f) Copies of all domestic advertising of the restricted uses of any pesticide registered for restricted use which the producer caused to have prepared, including any radio or television scripts for all such pesticides. These records shall be retained for a period of two (2) years.

(g) Copies of all guarantees given pursuant to section 12(a)(2)(C) of the Act. These records shall be retained for a period of one (1) year after expiration of the guarantee.

(h) In the case of all pesticides, devices, and active ingredients used in producing pesticides intended solely for export to any foreign country:

(1) Copies of the specification or directions of the foreign purchaser for the production of such pesticides, devices, or pesticide active ingredients;

(2) Copies of labels or labeling required to comply with section 17(a)(1) of the Act; and

(3) For any pesticide other than a pesticide registered under section 3 or sold under section 6(a)(1) of the Act, copies of a statement signed by the foreign purchaser of the pesticide acknowledging that the purchaser understands that such pesticide is not registered for use in the United States and cannot be sold in the United States under this Act.

(i) Records on the method of disposal (burial, incineration, etc.) date or dates of disposal, location of the disposal sites, and the types and amounts of pesticides or pesticide active ingredients disposed of by the producer or his contractor. With regard to the disposal of containers accumulated during production, the Agency will consider satisfactory a statement, attested to by a responsible firm official, describing in general terms the method and location of disposal, e.g., all containers are taken periodically to a certain site. Records of deviations from normal practice must be maintained. In addition, any records on the disposal of pesticides or pesticide active ingredients and/or containers specified pursuant to section 19 of the Act and any regulations promulgated thereto shall also be maintained. The above requirements apply to those products bearing label instructions for disposal and to any other products specified under any regulations promulgated pursuant to section 19. These records shall be retained for twenty (20) years or may be forwarded after three (3) years to the Environmental Protection Agency Regional Administrator for maintenance. Notwithstanding these record keeping requirements, whenever any producer of pesticides or pesticide active ingredients is complying with a rule promulgated under the authority of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA) (Pub. L. 94-580, 90 Stat. 2795, October 21, 1976), for the handling or disposal of hazardous wastes, as defined by RCRA or any regulations promulgated thereunder, such producer will no longer be required to maintain records in accordance with this subsection.

(j) Records of any tests conducted on human beings whether performed by the producer himself or authorized and/or paid for by the producer. Such records shall include: The names and addresses of subjects tested, dates of tests, types of tests, written consent of subjects to test, and all information and instructions given to the subjects regarding the nature and purpose of the tests and of any physical and mental health consequences which were reasonably foreseen therefrom, and any adverse effects of the test on the subjects, including any such effects coming to the attention of the producer after completion of the tests. These records shall be retained for twenty (20) years or may be forwarded after three (3) years to the Environmental Protection Agency Regional Administrator for maintenance.
