
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 170.3 Definitions.
####### Handler

means any person, including a self-employed person:

(1) Who is employed for any type of compensation by an agricultural establishment or commercial pesticide handling establishment to which subpart C of this part applies and who is:

(i) Mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides.

(ii) Disposing of pesticides or pesticide containers.

(iii) Handling opened containers of pesticides.

(iv) Acting as a flagger.

(v) Cleaning, adjusting, handling, or repairing the parts of mixing, loading, or application equipment that may contain pesticide residues.

(vi) Assisting with the application of pesticides.

(vii) Entering a greenhouse or other enclosed area after the application and before the inhalation exposure level listed in the labeling has been reached or one of the ventilation criteria established by this part (ยง 170.110(c)(3)) or in the labeling has been met:

(A) To operate ventilation equipment.

(B) To adjust or remove coverings used in fumigation.

(C) To monitor air levels.

(viii) Entering a treated area outdoors after application of any soil fumigant to adjust or remove soil coverings such as tarpaulins.

(ix) Performing tasks as a crop advisor:

(A) During any pesticide application.

(B) Before the inhalation exposure level listed in the labeling has been reached or one of the ventilation criteria established by this part (ยง 170.110(c)(3)) or in the labeling has been met.

(C) During any restricted-entry interval.

(2) The term does not include any person who is only handling pesticide containers that have been emptied or cleaned according to pesticide product labeling instructions or, in the absence of such instructions, have been subjected to triple-rinsing or its equivalent.
