
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 170.9 Violations of this part.
####### et seq.

(a) Under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136) (FIFRA) section 12(a)(2)(G) it is unlawful for any person "to use any registered pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its labeling." When this part is referenced on a label, users must comply with all of its requirements except those that are inconsistent with product-specific instructions on the labeling. For the purposes of this part, EPA interprets the term "use" to include:

(1) Preapplication activities, including, but not limited to:

(i) Arranging for the application of the pesticide;

(ii) Mixing and loading the pesticide; and

(iii) Making necessary preparations for the application of the pesticide, including responsibilities related to worker notification, training of handlers, decontamination, use and care of personal protective equipment, emergency information, and heat stress management.

(2) Application of the pesticide.

(3) Post-application activities necessary to reduce the risks of illness and injury resulting from handlers' and workers' occupational exposures to pesticide residues during the restricted-entry interval plus 30 days. These activities include, but are not limited to, responsibilities related to worker training, notification, and decontamination.

(4) Other pesticide-related activities, including, but not limited to, providing emergency assistance, transporting or storing pesticides that have been opened, and disposing of excess pesticides, spray mix, equipment wash waters, pesticide containers, and other pesticide-containing materials.

(b) A person who has a duty under this part, as referenced on the pesticide product label, and who fails to perform that duty, violates FIFRA section 12(a)(2)(G) and is subject to a civil penalty under section 14. A person who knowingly violates section 12(a)(2)(G) is subject to section 14 criminal sanctions.

(c) FIFRA section 14(b)(4) provides that a person is liable for a penalty under FIFRA if another person employed by or acting for that person violates any provision of FIFRA. The term "acting for" includes both employment and contractual relationships.

(d) The requirements of this part, including the decontamination requirements, shall not, for the purposes of section 653(b)(1) of title 29 of the U.S. Code, be deemed to be the exercise of statutory authority to prescribe or enforce standards or regulations affecting the general sanitary hazards addressed by the OSHA Field Sanitation Standard, 29 CFR 1928.110, or other agricultural, nonpesticide hazards.
