
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart B - Standard for Workers
###### ยง 170.120 Notice of applications.
####### Posted warning signs.

(c)The agricultural employer shall post warning signs in accordance with the following criteria:

(1) The warning sign shall have a background color that contrasts with red. The words "DANGER" and "PELIGRO," plus "PESTICIDES" and "PESTICIDAS," shall be at the top of the sign, and the words "KEEP OUT" and "NO ENTRE" shall be at the bottom of the sign. Letters for all words must be clearly legible. A circle containing an upraised hand on the left and a stern face on the right must be near the center of the sign. The inside of the circle must be red, except that the hand and a large portion of the face must be in a shade that contrasts with red. The length of the hand must be at least twice the height of the smallest letters. The length of the face must be only slightly smaller than the hand. Additional information such as the name of the pesticide and the date of application may appear on the warning sign if it does not detract from the appearance of the sign or change the meaning of the required information. A black-and-white example of a warning sign meeting these requirements, other than the size requirements, follows:

(2) The standard sign shall be at least 14 inches by 16 inches with letters at least 1 inch in height. Farms and forests shall use the standard size sign unless a smaller sign is necessary because the treated area is too small to accommodate a sign of this size. In nurseries and greenhouses, the agricultural employer may, at any time, use a sign smaller than the standard size sign. Whenever a small sign is used on any establishment, there are specific posting distances depending on the size of the lettering and symbol on the sign. If a sign is used with DANGER and PELIGRO in letters at leastinch in height and the remaining letters at leastinch in height and a red circle at least 3 inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face, the signs shall be no further than 50 feet apart. If a sign is used with DANGER and PELIGRO in letters at leastinch in height and the remaining letters at leastinch in height and a red circle at least 1inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face, the signs shall be no further than 25 feet apart. A sign with DANGER and PELIGRO in letters less thaninch in height or with any words in letters less thaninch in height or a red circle smaller than 1inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face will not satisfy the requirements of the rule. All signs must meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) The employer may replace the Spanish portion of the warning sign with a non-English language read by the largest group of workers who do not read English. The replacement sign must be in the same format as the original sign and be visible and legible.

(4) On farms and in forests and nurseries, the signs shall be visible from all usual points of worker entry to the treated area, including at least each access road, each border with any labor camp adjacent to the treated area, and each footpath and other walking route that enters the treated area. When there are no usual points of worker entry, signs shall be posted in the corners of the treated area or in any other location affording maximum visibility.

(5) In greenhouses, the signs shall be posted so they are visible from all usual points of worker entry to the treated area including each aisle or other walking route that enters the treated area. When there are no usual points of worker entry to the treated area, signs shall be posted in the corners of the treated area or in any other location affording maximum visibility.

(6) The signs shall:

(i) Be posted no sooner than 24 hours before the scheduled application of the pesticide.

(ii) Remain posted throughout the application and any restricted-entry interval.

(iii) Be removed within 3 days after the end of the application and any restricted-entry interval and before agricultural-worker entry is permitted, other than entry permitted by ยง 170.112.

(7) The signs shall remain visible and legible during the time they are posted.

(8) When several contiguous areas are to be treated with pesticides on a rotating or sequential basis, the entire area may be posted. Worker entry, other than entry permitted by ยง 170.112, is prohibited for the entire area while the signs are posted.
