
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart C - Standard for Pesticide Handlers
###### ยง 170.240 Personal protective equipment.
####### Cleaning and maintenance.

(f)(1) The handler employer shall assure that all personal protective equipment is cleaned according to the manufacturer's instructions or pesticide product labeling instructions before each day of reuse. In the absence of any such instructions, it shall be washed thoroughly in detergent and hot water.

(2) If any personal protective equipment cannot be cleaned properly, the handler employer shall dispose of the personal protective equipment in accordance with any applicable Federal, State, and local regulations. Coveralls or other absorbent materials that have been drenched or heavily contaminated with an undiluted pesticide that has the signal word DANGER or WARNING on the label shall be not be reused.

(3) The handler employer shall assure that contaminated personal protective equipment is kept separately and washed separately from any other clothing or laundry.

(4) The handler employer shall assure that all clean personal protective equipment shall be either dried thoroughly before being stored or shall be put in a well ventilated place to dry.

(5) The handler employer shall assure that all personal protective equipment is stored separately from personal clothing and apart from pesticide-contaminated areas.

(6) The handler employer shall assure that when dust/mist filtering respirators are used, the filters shall be replaced:

(i) When breathing resistance becomes excessive.

(ii) When the filter element has physical damage or tears.

(iii) According to manufacturer's recommendations or pesticide product labeling, whichever is more frequent.

(iv) In the absence of any other instructions or indications of service life, at the end of each day's work period.

(7) The handler employer shall assure that when gas- or vapor-removing respirators are used, the gas- or vapor-removing canisters or cartridges shall be replaced:

(i) At the first indication of odor, taste, or irritation.

(ii) According to manufacturer's recommendations or pesticide product labeling, whichever is more frequent.

(iii) In the absence of any other instructions or indications of service life, at the end of each day's work period.

(8) The handler employer shall inform any person who cleans or launders personal protective equipment:

(i) That such equipment may be contaminated with pesticides.

(ii) Of the potentially harmful effects of exposure to pesticides.

(iii) Of the correct way(s) to clean personal protective equipment and to protect themselves when handling such equipment.

(9) The handler employer shall assure that handlers have a clean place(s) away from pesticide storage and pesticide use areas where they may:

(i) Store personal clothing not in use.

(ii) Put on personal protective equipment at the start of any exposure period.

(iii) Remove personal protective equipment at the end of any exposure period.

(10) The handler employer shall not allow or direct any handler to wear home or to take home personal protective equipment contaminated with pesticides.
