
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart D - General Provisions
###### § 170.303 Applicability of this part.

(a) This regulation applies whenever a pesticide product bearing a label requiring compliance with this part is used in the production of agricultural plants on an agricultural establishment, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) This regulation does not apply when a pesticide product bearing a label requiring compliance with this part is used on an agricultural establishment in any of the following circumstances:

(1) As part of government-sponsored public pest control programs over which the owner, agricultural employer and handler employer have no control, such as mosquito abatement and Mediterranean fruit fly eradication programs.

(2) On plants other than agricultural plants, which may include plants in home fruit and vegetable gardens and home greenhouses, and permanent plantings for ornamental purposes, such as plants that are in ornamental gardens, parks, public or private landscaping, lawns or other grounds that are intended only for aesthetic purposes or climatic modification.

(3) For control of vertebrate pests, unless directly related to the production of an agricultural plant.

(4) As attractants or repellents in traps.

(5) On the harvested portions of agricultural plants or on harvested timber.

(6) For research uses of unregistered pesticides.

(7) On pasture and rangeland where the forage will not be harvested for hay.

(8) In a manner not directly related to the production of agricultural plants, including, but not limited to structural pest control and control of vegetation in non-crop areas.

(c) Where a pesticide product's labeling-specific directions for use or other labeling requirements are inconsistent with requirements of this part, users must comply with the pesticide product labeling, except as provided for in §§ 170.601, 170.603 and 170.607.
