
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart D - General Provisions
###### ยง 170.311 Display requirements for pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information.
####### Content prior to January 1, 2018.

(2)Prior to January 1, 2018, the safety information must include all of the following points:

(i) Help keep pesticides from entering your body. Avoid getting on your skin or into your body any pesticides that may be on plants and soil, in irrigation water, or drifting from nearby applications.

(ii) Wash before eating, drinking, using chewing gum or tobacco, or using the toilet.

(iii) Wear work clothing that protects the body from pesticide residues (long-sleeved shirts, long pants, shoes and socks, and a hat or scarf).

(iv) Wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and put on clean clothes after work.

(v) Wash work clothes separately from other clothes before wearing them again.

(vi) Wash immediately in the nearest clean water if pesticides are spilled or sprayed on the body. As soon as possible, shower, shampoo, and change into clean clothes.

(vii) Follow directions about keeping out of treated or restricted areas.

(viii) The name, address, and telephone number of a nearby operating medical care facility capable of providing emergency medical treatment. This information must be clearly identified as emergency medical contact information on the display.

(ix) There are Federal rules to protect workers and handlers, including a requirement for safety training.
