
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart D - General Provisions
###### ยง 170.311 Display requirements for pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information.
####### Access to pesticide application and hazard information by a designated representative.

(9)

(i) Any worker's or handler's designated representative may request access to or a copy of any information required to be retained for two years by ยง 170.311(b)(6) on behalf of a worker or handler employed on the establishment during the period that the information was required to be displayed. The agricultural employer must provide access to or a copy of the requested information applicable to the worker's or handler's time of employment on the establishment within 15 days after receiving any such request, provided the request meets the requirements specified in ยง 170.311(b)(9)(ii).

(ii) A request by a designated representative for access to or a copy of any pesticide application and/or hazard information must be in writing and must contain all of the following:

(A) The name of the worker or handler being represented.

(B) A description of the specific information being requested. The description should include the dates of employment of the worker or handler, the date or dates for which the records are requested, type of work conducted by the worker or handler (e.g., planting, harvesting, applying pesticides, mixing or loading pesticides) during the period for which the records are requested, and the specific application and/or hazard information requested.

(C) A written statement clearly designating the representative to request pesticide application and hazard information on the worker's or handler's behalf, bearing the worker's or handler's printed name and signature, the date of the designation, and the printed name and contact information for the designated representative.

(D) If the worker or handler requests that the pesticide application and/or the hazard information be sent, direction for where to send the information (e.g., mailing address or email address).

(iii) If the written request from a designated representative contains all of the necessary information specified in ยง 170.313(b)(9)(ii), the employer must provide a copy of or access to all of the requested information applicable to the worker's or handler's time of employment on the establishment to the designated representative within 15 days of receiving the request.
