
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart D - General Provisions
###### § 170.313 Commercial pesticide handler employer duties.

Commercial pesticide handler employers must:

(a) Ensure that any pesticide is used in a manner consistent with the pesticide product labeling, including the requirements of this part, when applied on an agricultural establishment by a handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment.

(b) Ensure each handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment and subject to this part receives the protections required by this part.

(c) Ensure that any handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment is at least 18 years old.

(d) Provide to each person, including labor contractors, who supervises any handlers employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment, information and directions sufficient to ensure that each handler receives the protections required by this part. Such information and directions must specify the tasks for which the supervisor is responsible in order to comply with the provisions of this part.

(e) Require each person, including labor contractors, who supervises any handlers employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment, to provide sufficient information and directions to each handler to ensure that the handler can comply with the provisions of this part.

(f) Ensure that before any handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment uses any equipment for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides, the handler is instructed in the safe operation of such equipment.

(g) Ensure that, before each day of use, equipment used by their employees for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides is inspected for leaks, obstructions, and worn or damaged parts, and any damaged equipment is repaired or is replaced.

(h) Ensure that whenever a handler who is employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment will be on an agricultural establishment, the handler is provided information about, or is aware of, the specific location and description of any treated areas where a restricted-entry interval is in effect, and the restrictions on entering those areas.

(i) Provide the agricultural employer all of the following information before the application of any pesticide on an agricultural establishment:

(1) Specific location(s) and description of the area(s) to be treated.

(2) The date(s) and start and estimated end times of application.

(3) Product name, EPA registration number, and active ingredient(s).

(4) The labeling-specified restricted-entry interval applicable for the application.

(5) Whether posting, oral notification or both are required under § 170.409.

(6) Any restrictions or use directions on the pesticide product labeling that must be followed for protection of workers, handlers, or other persons during or after application.

(j) If there are any changes to the information provided in § 170.313(i)(1), § 170.313(i)(4), § 170.313(i)(5), § 170.313(i)(6) or if the start time for the application will be earlier than originally forecasted or scheduled, ensure that the agricultural employer is provided updated information prior to the application. If there are any changes to any other information provided pursuant to § 170.313(i), the commercial pesticide handler employer must provide updated information to the agricultural employer within two hours after completing the application. Changes to the estimated application end time of less than one hour need not be reported to the agricultural employer.

(k) Provide emergency assistance in accordance with this paragraph. If there is reason to believe that a handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment has experienced a potential pesticide exposure during his or her employment by the commercial pesticide handling establishment or shows symptoms similar to those associated with acute exposure to pesticides during or within 72 hours after his or her employment by the commercial pesticide handling establishment, and needs emergency medical treatment, the commercial pesticide handler employer must do all of the following promptly after learning of the possible poisoning or injury:

(1) Make available to that person transportation from the commercial pesticide handling establishment, or any agricultural establishment on which that handler may be working on behalf of the commercial pesticide handling establishment, to an operating medical care facility capable of providing emergency medical treatment to a person exposed to pesticides.

(2) Provide all of the following information to the treating medical personnel:

(i) Copies of the applicable safety data sheet(s) and the product name(s), EPA registration number(s) and active ingredient(s) for each pesticide product to which the person may have been exposed.

(ii) The circumstances of application or use of the pesticide.

(iii) The circumstances that could have resulted in exposure to the pesticide.

(l) Ensure that persons directly employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment do not clean, repair, or adjust pesticide application equipment, unless trained as a handler under § 170.501. Before allowing any person not directly employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment to clean, repair, or adjust equipment that has been used to mix, load, transfer, or apply pesticides, the commercial pesticide handler employer must provide all of the following information to such persons:

(1) Notice that the pesticide application equipment may be contaminated with pesticides.

(2) The potentially harmful effects of exposure to pesticides.

(3) Procedures for handling pesticide application equipment and for limiting exposure to pesticide residues.

(4) Personal hygiene practices and decontamination procedures for preventing pesticide exposures and removing pesticide residues.

(m) Provide any records or other information required by this part for inspection and copying upon request by an employee of EPA or any duly authorized representative of a Federal, State or Tribal government agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.
