
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart E - Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Workers
###### ยง 170.405 Entry restrictions associated with pesticide applications.
####### Enclosed space production pesticide applications.

(b)(1) During any enclosed space production pesticide application described in column A of the Table under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the agricultural employer must not allow or direct any worker or other person, other than an appropriately trained and equipped handler involved in the application, to enter or to remain in the area specified in column B of the Table under paragraph (b)(4) of this section during the application and until the time specified in column C of the Table under paragraph (b)(4) of this section has expired.

(2) After the time specified in column C of the Table under paragraph (b)(4) of this section has expired, the area subject to the labeling-specified restricted-entry interval and the post-application entry restrictions specified in ยง 170.407 is the area specified in column D of the Table under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(3) When column C of the Table under paragraph (b)(4) of this section specifies that ventilation criteria must be met, ventilation must continue until the air concentration is measured to be equal to or less than the inhalation exposure level required by the labeling. If no inhalation exposure level is listed on the labeling, ventilation must continue until after one of the following conditions is met:

(i) Ten air exchanges are completed.

(ii) Two hours of ventilation using fans or other mechanical ventilating systems.

(iii) Four hours of ventilation using vents, windows, or other passive ventilation.

(iv) Eleven hours with no ventilation followed by one hour of mechanical ventilation.

(v) Eleven hours with no ventilation followed by two hours of passive ventilation.

(vi) Twenty-four hours with no ventilation.

(4) The following Table applies to paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.
