
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart E - Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Workers
###### ยง 170.405 Entry restrictions associated with pesticide applications.
####### Outdoor production pesticide applications.

(a)(1) The application exclusion zone is defined as follows:

(i) The application exclusion zone is the area that extends 100 feet horizontally from the point(s) of pesticide discharge from the application equipment in all directions during application when the pesticide is applied by any of the following methods:

(A) Aerially.

(B) Air blast or air-propelled applications.

(C) As a fumigant, smoke, mist, or fog.

(ii) The application exclusion zone is the area that extends 25 feet horizontally from the point(s) of pesticide discharge from the application equipment in all directions during application when the pesticide is sprayed from a height of greater than 12 inches from the soil surface or planting medium and not as in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.

(iii) There is no application exclusion zone when the pesticide is applied in a manner other than those covered in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) During any outdoor production pesticide application, the agricultural employer must not allow or direct any worker or other person to enter or to remain in the treated area or an application exclusion zone that is within the boundaries of the establishment until the application is complete, except for:

(i) Appropriately trained and equipped handlers involved in the application, and

(ii) Persons not employed by the establishment in an area subject to an easement that prevents the agricultural employer from temporarily excluding those persons from that area.

(iii) Owners of the agricultural establishment and their immediate family members who remain inside closed buildings, housing, or shelters on the establishment under the conditions specified in ยง 170.601(a)(1)(vi).

(3) After the application is complete, the area subject to the labeling-specified restricted-entry interval and the post-application entry restrictions specified in ยง 170.407 is the treated area.
