
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart E - Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Workers
###### ยง 170.409 Oral and posted notification of worker entry restrictions.
####### Content.

(2)(i) The warning sign must have a white background. The words "DANGER" and "PELIGRO," plus "PESTICIDES" and "PESTICIDAS," must be at the top of the sign, and the words "KEEP OUT" and "NO ENTRE" must be at the bottom of the sign. Letters for all words must be clearly legible. A circle containing an upraised hand on the left and a stern face on the right must be near the center of the sign. The inside of the circle must be red, except that the hand and a large portion of the face must be in white. The length of the hand must be at least twice the height of the smallest letters. The length of the face must be only slightly smaller than the hand. Additional information such as the name of the pesticide and the date of application may appear on the warning sign if it does not detract from the size and appearance of the sign or change the meaning of the required information. An example of a warning sign meeting these requirements, other than the size and color requirements, follows:

(ii) The agricultural employer may replace the Spanish language portion of the warning sign with equivalent terms in an alternative non-English language if that alternative language is the language read by the largest group of workers at that agricultural establishment who do not read English. The alternative language sign must be in the same format as the original sign and conform to all other requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
