
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart E - Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Workers
###### § 170.409 Oral and posted notification of worker entry restrictions.
####### Oral warnings,Requirement.

(c)-If oral notification is required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the agricultural employer must provide oral warnings to workers in a manner that the workers can understand. If a worker will be on the establishment when an application begins, the warning must be given before the application begins. If a worker arrives on the establishment while an application is taking place or a restricted-entry interval for a pesticide application is in effect, the warning must be given at the beginning of the worker's work period. The warning must include all of the following:

(1) The location(s) and description of any treated area(s) subject to the entry restrictions during and after application specified in §§ 170.405 and 170.407.

(2) The dates and times during which entry is restricted in any treated area(s) subject to the entry restrictions during and after application specified in §§ 170.405 and 170.407.

(3) Instructions not to enter the treated area or an application exclusion zone during application, and that entry to the treated area is not allowed until the restricted-entry interval has expired and all treated area warning signs have been removed or covered, except for entry permitted by § 170.603 of this part.
