
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart F - Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Pesticide Handlers
###### ยง 170.507 Personal protective equipment.
####### Cleaning and maintenance.

(d)(1) The handler employer must ensure that all personal protective equipment is cleaned according to the manufacturer's instructions or pesticide product labeling instructions before each day of reuse. In the absence of any such instructions, it must be washed thoroughly in detergent and hot water.

(2) If any personal protective equipment cannot or will not be cleaned properly, the handler employer must ensure the contaminated personal protective equipment is made unusable as apparel or is made unavailable for further use by employees or third parties. The contaminated personal protective equipment must be disposed of in accordance with any applicable laws or regulations. Coveralls or other absorbent materials that have been drenched or heavily contaminated with a pesticide that has the signal word "DANGER" or "WARNING" on the label must not be reused and must be disposed of as specified in this paragraph. Handler employers must ensure that any person who handles contaminated personal protective equipment described in this paragraph wears the gloves specified on the pesticide product labeling for mixing and loading the product(s) comprising the contaminant(s) on the equipment. If two or more pesticides are included in the contaminants, the gloves worn must meet the requirements for mixing and loading all of the pesticide products.

(3) The handler employer must ensure that contaminated personal protective equipment is kept separate from non-contaminated personal protective equipment, other clothing or laundry and washed separately from any other clothing or laundry.

(4) The handler employer must ensure that all washed personal protective equipment is dried thoroughly before being stored or reused.

(5) The handler employer must ensure that all clean personal protective equipment is stored separately from personal clothing and apart from pesticide-contaminated areas.

(6) The handler employer must ensure that when filtering facepiece respirators are used, they are replaced when one of the following conditions is met:

(i) When breathing resistance becomes excessive.

(ii) When the filter element has physical damage or tears.

(iii) According to manufacturer's recommendations or pesticide product labeling, whichever is more frequent.

(iv) In the absence of any other instructions or indications of service life, at the end of eight hours of cumulative use.

(7) The handler employer must ensure that when gas- or vapor-removing respirators are used, the gas- or vapor-removing canisters or cartridges are replaced before further respirator use when one of the following conditions is met:

(i) At the first indication of odor, taste, or irritation.

(ii) When the maximum use time is reached as determined by a change schedule conforming to the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.134(d)(3)(iii)(B)(2).

(iii) When breathing resistance becomes excessive.

(iv) When required according to manufacturer's recommendations or pesticide product labeling instructions, whichever is more frequent.

(v) In the absence of any other instructions or indications of service life, at the end of eight hours of cumulative use.

(8) The handler employer must inform any person who cleans or launders personal protective equipment of all the following:

(i) That such equipment may be contaminated with pesticides and there are potentially harmful effects from exposure to pesticides.

(ii) The correct way(s) to clean personal protective equipment and how to protect themselves when handling such equipment.

(iii) Proper decontamination procedures that should be followed after handling contaminated personal protective equipment.

(9) The handler employer must ensure that handlers have a place(s) away from pesticide storage and pesticide use areas where they may do all of the following:

(i) Store personal clothing not worn during handling activities.

(ii) Put on personal protective equipment at the start of any exposure period.

(iii) Remove personal protective equipment at the end of any exposure period.

(10) The handler employer must not allow or direct any handler to wear home or to take home employer-provided personal protective equipment contaminated with pesticides.
