
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart F - Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Pesticide Handlers
###### ยง 170.507 Personal protective equipment.
####### Employer responsibilities for providing personal protective equipment.

(b)The handler employer must provide to the handler the personal protective equipment required by the pesticide product labeling in accordance with this section. The handler employer must ensure that the personal protective equipment is clean and in proper operating condition. For the purposes of this section, long-sleeved shirts, short-sleeved shirts, long pants, short pants, shoes, and socks are not considered personal protective equipment, although such work clothing must be worn if required by the pesticide product labeling.

(1) If the pesticide product labeling requires that "chemical-resistant" personal protective equipment be worn, it must be made of material that allows no measurable movement of the pesticide being used through the material during use.

(2) If the pesticide product labeling requires that "waterproof" personal protective equipment be worn, it must be made of material that allows no measurable movement of water or aqueous solutions through the material during use.

(3) If the pesticide product labeling requires that a "chemical-resistant suit" be worn, it must be a loose-fitting, one- or two-piece chemical-resistant garment that covers, at a minimum, the entire body except head, hands, and feet.

(4) If the pesticide product labeling requires that "coveralls" be worn, they must be loose-fitting, one- or two-piece garments that cover, at a minimum, the entire body except head, hands, and feet.

(5) Gloves must be the type specified on the pesticide product labeling.

(i) Gloves made of leather, cotton, or other absorbent materials may not be worn while performing handler activities unless gloves made of these materials are listed as acceptable for such use on the pesticide product labeling.

(ii) Separable glove liners may be worn beneath chemical-resistant gloves, unless the pesticide product labeling specifically prohibits their use. Separable glove liners are defined as separate glove-like hand coverings, made of lightweight material, with or without fingers. Work gloves made from lightweight cotton or poly-type material are considered to be glove liners if worn beneath chemical-resistant gloves. Separable glove liners may not extend outside the chemical-resistant gloves under which they are worn. Chemical-resistant gloves with non-separable absorbent lining materials are prohibited.

(iii) If used, separable glove liners must be discarded immediately after a total of no more than 10 hours of use or within 24 hours of when first put on, whichever comes first. The liners must be replaced immediately if directly contacted by pesticide. Used glove liners must not be reused. Contaminated liners must be disposed of in accordance with any Federal, State, or local regulations.

(6) If the pesticide product labeling requires that "chemical-resistant footwear" be worn, one of the following types of footwear must be worn:

(i) Chemical-resistant shoes.

(ii) Chemical-resistant boots.

(iii) Chemical-resistant shoe coverings worn over shoes or boots.

(7) If the pesticide product labeling requires that "protective eyewear" be worn, one of the following types of eyewear must be worn:

(i) Goggles.

(ii) Face shield.

(iii) Safety glasses with front, brow, and temple protection.

(iv) Full-face respirator.

(8) If the pesticide product labeling requires that a "chemical-resistant apron" be worn, a chemical-resistant apron that covers the front of the body from mid-chest to the knees must be worn.

(9) If the pesticide product labeling requires that "chemical-resistant headgear" be worn, it must be either a chemical-resistant hood or a chemical-resistant hat with a wide brim.

(10) The respirator specified by the pesticide product labeling must be used. Whenever a respirator is required by the pesticide product labeling, the handler employer must ensure that the requirements of paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section are met before the handler performs any handler activity where the respirator is required to be worn. The handler employer must maintain for two years, on the establishment, records documenting the completion of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Handler employers must provide handlers with fit testing using the respirator specified on the pesticide product labeling in a manner that conforms to the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.134.

(ii) Handler employers must provide handlers with training in the use of the respirator specified on the pesticide product labeling in a manner that conforms to the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.134(k)(1)(i) through(vi).

(iii) Handler employers must provide handlers with a medical evaluation by a physician or other licensed health care professional that conforms to the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.134 to ensure the handler's physical ability to safely wear the respirator specified on the pesticide product labeling.
