
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix B to Subpart S of Part 51 - Test Procedures
####### Second-chance idle mode.

(d)If the vehicle fails the first-chance idle mode and passes the high-speed mode, the test timer shall reset to zero (tt = 0) and a second-chance idle mode shall commence. The second-chance idle mode shall have an overall maximum test time of 145 seconds (tt = 145). The test shall consist of an idle mode only.

(1) The engines of 1981-1987 Ford Motor Company vehicles and 1984-1985 Honda Preludes shall be shut off for not more than 10 seconds and restarted. The probe may be removed from the tailpipe or the sample pump turned off if necessary to reduce analyzer fouling during the restart procedure. This procedure may also be used for 1988-1989 Ford Motor Company vehicles but should not be used for other vehicles.

(2) The mode timer shall start (mt = 0) when the vehicle engine speed is between 350 and 1100 rpm. If the engine speed exceeds 1100 rpm or falls below 350 rpm the mode timer shall reset to zero and resume timing. The minimum second-chance idle mode length shall be determined as described in paragraph (II)(d)(3) of this appendix. The maximum second-chance idle mode length shall be 90 seconds elapsed time (mt = 90).

(3) The pass/fail analysis shall begin after an elapsed time of 10 seconds (mt = 10). A pass or fail determination shall be made for the vehicle and the second-chance idle mode shall be terminated as follows:

(i) The vehicle shall pass the second-chance idle mode and the test shall be immediately terminated if, prior to an elapsed time of 30 seconds (mt = 30), any measured values are less than or equal to 100 ppm HC and 0.5 percent CO.

(ii) The vehicle shall pass the second-chance idle mode and the test shall be terminated at the end of an elapsed time of 30 seconds (mt = 30) if, prior to that time, the criteria of paragraph (II)(d)(3)(i) of this appendix are not satisfied, and the measured values are less than or equal to the applicable short test standards as described in paragraph (II)(a)(2) of this appendix.

(iii) The vehicle shall pass the second-chance idle mode and the test shall be immediately terminated if, at any point between an elapsed time of 30 seconds (mt = 30) and 90 seconds (mt = 90), the measured values are less than or equal to the applicable short test standards as described in paragraph (II)(a)(2) of this appendix.

(iv) The vehicle shall fail the second-chance idle mode and the test shall be terminated if none of the provisions of paragraph (II)(d)(3)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this appendix is satisfied by an elapsed time of 90 seconds (mt = 90).
