
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart G - Exemptions, Exceptions and Equivalency
###### ยง 170.607 Exceptions to personal protective equipment requirements specified on pesticide product labeling.
####### Closed systems.

(d)(1) When pesticides are being mixed or loaded using a closed system that meets all of the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and the handler employer meets the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the following exceptions to labeling-specified personal protective equipment are permitted:

(i) Handlers using a closed system to mix or load pesticides with a signal word of "DANGER" or "WARNING" may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes and socks, chemical-resistant apron, protective eyewear, and any protective gloves specified on the labeling for handlers for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment.

(ii) Handlers using a closed system to mix or load pesticides other than those specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section may substitute protective eyewear, long-sleeved shirt, long pants, and shoes and socks for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment.

(2) The exceptions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section apply only in the following situations:

(i) Where the closed system removes the pesticide from its original container and transfers the pesticide product through connecting hoses, pipes and couplings that are sufficiently tight to prevent exposure of handlers to the pesticide product, except for the negligible escape associated with normal operation of the system.

(ii) When loading intact, sealed, water soluble packaging into a mixing tank or system. If the integrity of a water soluble packaging is compromised (for example, if the packaging is dissolved, broken, punctured, torn, or in any way allows its contents to escape), it is no longer a closed system and the labeling-specified personal protective equipment must be worn.

(3) The exceptions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section apply only where the handler employer has satisfied the requirements of ยง 170.313 and all of the following conditions:

(i) Each closed system must have written operating instructions that are clearly legible and include: Operating procedures for use, including the safe removal of a probe; maintenance, cleaning and repair; known restrictions or limitations relating to the system, such as incompatible pesticides, sizes (or types) of containers or closures that cannot be handled by the system; any limits on the ability to measure a pesticide; and special procedures or limitations regarding partially-filled containers.

(ii) The written operating instructions for the closed system must be available at the mixing or loading site and must be made available to any handlers who use the system.

(iii) Any handler operating the closed system must be trained in its use and operate the closed system in accordance with its written operating instructions.

(iv) The closed system must be cleaned and maintained as specified in the written operating instructions and as needed to make sure the system functions properly.

(v) All personal protective equipment specified in the pesticide product labeling is immediately available to the handler for use in an emergency.

(vi) Protective eyewear must be worn when using closed systems operating under pressure.
