
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart G - Exemptions, Exceptions and Equivalency
###### ยง 170.607 Exceptions to personal protective equipment requirements specified on pesticide product labeling.
####### Enclosed cabs.

(e)(1) If a handler applies a pesticide from inside a vehicle's enclosed cab, and if the conditions listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section are met, exceptions to the personal protective equipment requirements specified on the product labeling for applicators are permitted as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(2) All of the personal protective equipment required by the pesticide product labeling for applicators must be immediately available and stored in a sealed container to prevent contamination. Handlers must wear the applicator personal protective equipment required by the pesticide product labeling if they exit the cab within a treated area during application or when a restricted-entry interval is in effect. Once personal protective equipment is worn in a treated area, it must be removed before reentering the cab to prevent contamination of the cab.

(3) Handlers may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes and socks for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment for skin and eye protection. If a filtering facepiece respirator (NIOSH approval number prefix TC-84A) or dust/mist filtering respirator is required by the pesticide product labeling for applicators, then that respirator need not be worn inside the enclosed cab if the enclosed cab has a properly functioning air ventilation system which is used and maintained in accordance with the manufacture's written operating instructions. If any other type of respirator is required by the pesticide labeling for applicators, then that respirator must be worn.
