
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 170 - WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD
##### Subpart G - Exemptions, Exceptions and Equivalency
###### ยง 170.603 Exceptions for entry by workers during restricted-entry intervals.
####### Exception for an agricultural emergency.

(c)(1) An agricultural emergency means a sudden occurrence or set of circumstances that the agricultural employer could not have anticipated and over which the agricultural employer has no control, that requires entry into a treated area during a restricted-entry interval, and when no alternative practices would prevent or mitigate a substantial economic loss. A substantial economic loss means a loss in profitability greater than that which would be expected based on the experience and fluctuations of crop yields in previous years. Only losses caused by the agricultural emergency specific to the affected site and geographic area are considered. Losses resulting from mismanagement cannot be included when determining whether a loss is substantial.

(2) A worker may enter a treated area where a restricted-entry interval is in effect in an agricultural emergency to perform tasks necessary to mitigate the effects of the agricultural emergency, including hand labor tasks, if the agricultural employer ensures that all the following criteria are met:

(i) The State department of agriculture, or the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement declares an agricultural emergency that applies to the treated area, or agricultural employer has determined that the circumstances within the treated area are the same as circumstances the State department of agriculture, or the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement has previously determined would constitute an agricultural emergency.

(ii) The agricultural employer determines that the agricultural establishment is subject to the circumstances that result in an agricultural emergency meeting the criteria of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(iii) If the labeling of any pesticide product applied to the treated area requires workers to be notified of the location of treated areas by both posting and oral notification, then the agricultural employer must ensure that no individual worker spends more than four hours out of any 24-hour period in treated areas where such a restricted-entry interval is in effect.

(iv) No such entry is allowed during the first 4 hours after the application ends.

(v) No such entry is allowed until any inhalation exposure level listed in the pesticide product labeling has been reached or any ventilation criteria required by ยง 170.405(b)(3) or the pesticide product labeling have been met.
