
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix B to Subpart S of Part 51 - Test Procedures
####### Test sequence.

(b)(1) The test sequence shall consist of a loaded mode using a chassis dynamometer followed immediately by an idle mode as described under paragraphs (III)(c)(1) and (2) of this appendix.

(2) The test sequence shall begin only after the following requirements are met:

(i) The dynamometer shall be warmed up, in stabilized operating condition, adjusted, and calibrated in accordance with the procedures of appendix A to this subpart. Prior to each test, variable-curve dynamometers shall be checked for proper setting of the road-load indicator or road-load controller.

(ii) The vehicle shall be tested in as-received condition with all accessories turned off. The engine shall be at normal operating temperature (as indicated by a temperature gauge, temperature lamp, touch test on the radiator hose, or other visual observation for overheating).

(iii) The vehicle shall be operated during each mode of the test with the gear selector in the following position:

(A) In drive for automatic transmissions and in second (or third if more appropriate) for manual transmissions for the loaded mode;

(B) In park or neutral for the idle mode.

(iv) For all pre-1996 model year vehicles, a tachometer shall be attached to the vehicle in accordance with the analyzer manufacturer's instructions. For 1996 and newer model year vehicles the OBD data link connector will be used to monitor RPM. In the event that an OBD data link connector is not available or that an RPM signal is not available over the data link connector, a tachometer shall be used instead.

(v) The sample probe shall be inserted into the vehicle's tailpipe to a minimum depth of 10 inches. If the vehicle's exhaust system prevents insertion to this depth, a tailpipe extension shall be used.

(vi) The measured concentration of CO plus COshall be greater than or equal to six percent.
