
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix B to Subpart S of Part 51 - Test Procedures
####### Loaded mode,Ford Motor Company and Honda vehicles.

(1)-(i)(Optional) The engines of 1981-1987 Ford Motor Company vehicles and 1984-1985 Honda Preludes shall be shut off for not more than 10 seconds and restarted. This procedure may also be used for 1988-1989 Ford Motor Company vehicles but should not be used for other vehicles. The probe may be removed from the tailpipe or the sample pump turned off if necessary to reduce analyzer fouling during the restart procedure.

(ii) The mode timer shall start (mt = 0) when the dynamometer speed is within the limits specified for the vehicle engine size according to the following schedule. If the dynamometer speed falls outside the limits for more than five seconds in one excursion, or 15 seconds over all excursions, the mode timer shall reset to zero and resume timing. The minimum mode length shall be determined as described in paragraph (III)(c)(1)(iii)(A) of this appendix. The maximum mode length shall be 90 seconds elapsed time (mt = 90).

(iii) The pass/fail analysis shall begin after an elapsed time of 10 seconds (mt = 10). A pass or fail determination shall be made for the vehicle and the mode shall be terminated as follows:

(A) The vehicle shall pass the loaded mode and the mode shall be immediately terminated if, at any point between an elapsed time of 30 seconds (mt = 30) and 90 seconds (mt = 90), measured values are less than or equal to the applicable short test standards described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(B) The vehicle shall fail the loaded mode and the mode shall be terminated if paragraph (III)(c)(1)(iii)(A) of this appendix is not satisfied by an elapsed time of 90 seconds (mt = 90).
