
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart B - Certification Requirements for Applicators of Restricted Use Pesticides
###### ยง 171.103 Standards for certification of commercial applicators.
####### Examination standards.

(2)The certifying authority must ensure that examinations conform to all of the following standards:

(i) The examination must be presented and answered in writing.

(ii) The examination must be proctored by an individual designated by the certifying authority and who is not seeking certification at any examination session that he or she is proctoring.

(iii) Each person seeking certification must present at the time of examination valid, government-issued photo identification or other form of similarly reliable identification authorized by the certifying authority as proof of identity and age to be eligible for certification.

(iv) Candidates must be monitored throughout the examination period.

(v) Candidates must be instructed in examination procedures before beginning the examination.

(vi) Examinations must be kept secure before, during, and after the examination period so that only the candidates have access to the examination, and candidates have access only in the presence of the proctor.

(vii) Candidates must not have verbal or non-verbal communication with anyone other than the proctor during the examination period.

(viii) No portion of the examination or any associated reference materials described in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section may be copied or retained by any person other than a person authorized by the certifying authority to copy or retain the examination or any associated reference materials described in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section.

(ix) The only reference materials used during the examination are those that are approved by the certifying authority and provided and collected by the proctor.

(x) Reference materials provided to examinees are reviewed after the examination is complete to ensure that no portion of the reference material has been removed, altered, or destroyed.

(xi) The proctor reports to the certifying authority any examination administration inconsistencies or irregularities, including but not limited to cheating, use of unauthorized materials, and attempts to copy or retain the examination.

(xii) The examination must be conducted in accordance with any other requirements of the certifying authority related to examination administration.

(xiii) The certifying authority must notify each candidate of the results of his or her examination.
