
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart B - Certification Requirements for Applicators of Restricted Use Pesticides
###### ยง 171.105 Standards for certification of private applicators.
####### Label and labeling comprehension.

(1)Familiarity with pesticide labels and labeling and their functions, including all of the following:

(i) The general format and terminology of pesticide labels and labeling.

(ii) Understanding instructions, warnings, terms, symbols, and other information commonly appearing on pesticide labels and labeling.

(iii) Understanding that it is a violation of Federal law to use any registered pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its labeling.

(iv) Understanding when a certified applicator must be physically present at the site of the application based on labeling requirements.

(v) Understanding labeling requirements for supervising noncertified applicators working under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.

(vi) Understanding that applicators must comply with all use restrictions and directions for use contained in pesticide labels and labeling, including being certified in the appropriate category to use restricted use pesticides for fumigation or aerial application, or predator control devices containing sodium cyanide or sodium fluoroacetate, if applicable.

(vii) Understanding the meaning of product classification as either general or restricted use, and that a product may be unclassified.

(viii) Understanding and complying with product-specific notification requirements.

(ix) Recognizing and understanding the difference between mandatory and advisory labeling language.
