
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart B - Certification Requirements for Applicators of Restricted Use Pesticides
###### ยง 171.105 Standards for certification of private applicators.
####### Label and labeling comprehension.

(1)Familiarity with the pesticide labels and labeling for products used to perform soil fumigation, including all of the following:

(i) Labeling requirements specific to soil fumigants.

(ii) Requirements for certified applicators of fumigants, fumigant handlers and permitted fumigant handler activities, and the safety information that certified applicators must provide to noncertified applicators using fumigants under the direct supervision of certified applicators.

(iii) Entry-restricted period for different tarped and untarped field application scenarios.

(iv) Recordkeeping requirements imposed by product labels and labeling.

(v) Labeling provisions unique to products containing certain active ingredients.

(vi) Labeling requirements for fumigant management plans, such as when a fumigant management plan must be in effect, how long it must be kept on file, where it must be kept during the application, and who must have access to it; the elements of a fumigant management plan and resources available to assist the applicator in preparing a fumigant management plan; the person responsible for verifying that a fumigant management plan is accurate; and the elements, purpose and content of a post-application summary, who must prepare it, and when it must be completed.
