
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart B - Certification Requirements for Applicators of Restricted Use Pesticides
###### ยง 171.105 Standards for certification of private applicators.
####### Application.

(4)Selecting appropriate application methods and timing, including all of the following:

(i) Application methods, including but not limited to water-run and non-water-run applications, and equipment commonly used for each soil fumigant.

(ii) Site characteristics that influence fumigant exposure.

(iii) Understanding temperature inversions and their impact on soil fumigant application.

(iv) Weather conditions that could impact timing of soil fumigant application, such as air stability, air temperature, humidity, and wind currents, and labeling statements limiting applications during specific weather conditions.

(v) Conducting pre-application inspection of application equipment.

(vi) Understanding the purpose and methods of soil sealing, including the factors that determine which soil sealing method to use.

(vii) Understanding the use of tarps, including the range of tarps available, how to seal tarps, and labeling requirements for tarp removal, perforation, and repair.

(viii) Calculating the amount of product required for a specific treatment area.

(ix) Understanding the basic techniques for calibrating soil fumigant application equipment.
