
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart B - Certification Requirements for Applicators of Restricted Use Pesticides
###### ยง 171.105 Standards for certification of private applicators.
####### Application equipment.

(2)Understand how to choose and maintain aerial application equipment, including all of the following:

(i) The importance of inspecting application equipment to ensure it is in proper operating condition prior to beginning an application.

(ii) Selecting proper nozzles to ensure appropriate pesticide dispersal and to minimize drift.

(iii) Knowledge of the components of an aerial pesticide application system, including pesticide hoppers, tanks, pumps, and types of nozzles.

(iv) Interpreting a nozzle flow rate chart.

(v) Determining the number of nozzles for intended pesticide output using nozzle flow rate chart, aircraft speed, and swath width.

(vi) How to ensure nozzles are placed to compensate for uneven dispersal due to uneven airflow from wingtip vortices, helicopter rotor turbulence, and aircraft propeller turbulence.

(vii) Where to place nozzles to produce the appropriate droplet size.

(viii) How to maintain the application system in good repair, including pressure gauge accuracy, filter cleaning according to schedule, and checking nozzles for excessive wear.

(ix) How to calculate required and actual flow rates.

(x) How to verify flow rate using fixed timing, open timing, known distance, or a flow meter.

(xi) When to adjust and calibrate application equipment.
