
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart C - Supervision of Noncertified Applicators
###### ยง 171.201 Requirements for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified applicators.
####### Noncertified applicator training program.

(d)(1) General noncertified applicator training must be presented to noncertified applicators either orally from written materials or audiovisually. The information must be presented in a manner that the noncertified applicators can understand, such as through a translator. The person conducting the training must be present during the entire training program and must respond to the noncertified applicators' questions.

(2) The person who conducts the training must meet one of the following criteria:

(i) Be currently certified as an applicator of restricted use pesticides under this part.

(ii) Be currently designated as a trainer of certified applicators or pesticide handlers by EPA, the certifying authority, or a State, Tribal, or Federal agency having jurisdiction.

(iii) Have completed an EPA-approved pesticide safety train-the-trainer program for trainers of handlers under 40 CFR part 170.

(3) The noncertified applicator training materials must include the information that noncertified applicators need in order to protect themselves, other people, and the environment before, during, and after making a restricted use pesticide application. The noncertified applicator training materials must include, at a minimum, the following:

(i) Potential hazards from toxicity and exposure that pesticides present to noncertified applicators and their families, including acute and chronic effects, delayed effects, and sensitization.

(ii) Routes through which pesticides can enter the body.

(iii) Signs and symptoms of common types of pesticide poisoning.

(iv) Emergency first aid for pesticide injuries or poisonings.

(v) Routine and emergency decontamination procedures, including emergency eye flushing techniques. Noncertified applicators must be instructed that if pesticides are spilled or sprayed on the body, to immediately wash or to rinse off in the nearest clean water. Noncertified applicators must also be instructed to wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and change into clean clothes as soon as possible.

(vi) How and when to obtain emergency medical care.

(vii) After working with pesticides, wash hands before eating, drinking, using chewing gum or tobacco, or using the toilet.

(viii) Wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair and change into clean clothes as soon as possible after working with pesticides.

(ix) Potential hazards from pesticide residues on clothing.

(x) Wash work clothes before wearing them again and wash them separately from other clothes.

(xi) Do not take pesticides or pesticide containers used at work to your home.

(xii) Potential hazards to children and pregnant women from pesticide exposure.

(xiii) After working with pesticides, remove work boots or shoes before entering your home, and remove work clothes and wash or shower before physical contact with children or family members.

(xiv) How to report suspected pesticide use violations to the appropriate State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.

(xv) Format and meaning of information contained on pesticide labels and in labeling applicable to the safe use of the pesticide, including the location and meaning of the restricted use product statement, how to identify when the labeling requires the certified applicator to be physically present during the use of the pesticide, and information on personal protective equipment.

(xvi) Need for, and appropriate use and removal of, personal protective equipment.

(xvii) How to recognize, prevent, and provide first aid treatment for heat-related illness.

(xviii) Safety requirements for handling, transporting, storing, and disposing of pesticides, including general procedures for spill cleanup.

(xix) Environmental concerns such as drift, runoff, and wildlife hazards.

(xx) Restricted use pesticides may be used only by a certified applicator or by a noncertified applicator working under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.

(xxi) The certified applicator's responsibility to provide to each noncertified applicator instructions specific to the site and pesticide used. These instructions must include labeling directions, precautions, and requirements applicable to the specific use and site, and how the characteristics of the use site (e.g., surface and ground water, endangered species, local population, and risks) and the conditions of application (e.g., equipment, method of application, formulation, and risks) might increase or decrease the risk of adverse effects. The certified applicator must provide these instructions in a manner the noncertified applicator can understand.

(xxii) The certified applicator's responsibility to ensure that each noncertified applicator has access to the applicable product labeling at all times during its use.

(xxiii) The certified applicator's responsibility to ensure that where the labeling of a pesticide product requires that personal protective equipment be worn for mixing, loading, application, or any other use activities, each noncertified applicator has clean, labeling-required personal protective equipment in proper operating condition and that the personal protective equipment is worn and use correctly for its intended purpose.

(xxiv) The certified applicator's responsibility to ensure that before each day of use equipment used for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides is in proper operating condition as intended by the manufacturer, and can be used without risk of reasonably foreseeable adverse effects to the noncertified applicator, other persons, or the environment.

(xxv) The certified applicator's responsibility to ensure that a means to immediately communicate with the certified applicator is available to each noncertified applicator using restricted use pesticides under his or her direct supervision.
