
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart D - Certification Plans
###### § 171.305 Requirements for Federal agency certification plans.

(a) A Federal agency may certify applicators of restricted use pesticides only in accordance with a Federal agency certification plan approved by the Agency. Certification must be limited to the employees of the Federal agency covered by the certification plan and will be valid only for those uses of restricted use pesticides conducted in the performance of the employees' official duties.

(1) The Federal agency certification plan must include a full description of the proposed process the Federal agency will use to assess applicator competency to use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides.

(2) Employees certified by the Federal agency must meet the standards for commercial applicators.

(3) The Federal agency certification plan must list and describe the categories of certification from the certification categories listed in § 171.101 that will be included in the plan except that:

(i) A Federal agency certification plan may omit any unneeded certification categories.

(ii) A Federal agency certification plan may designate subcategories within the categories described in § 171.101 as it deems necessary.

(iii) A Federal agency certification plan may include additional certification categories not covered by the existing Federal categories described in § 171.101.

(iv) A Federal agency certification plan may combine the categories described in § 171.101(m) through (n) into a single general fumigation category for commercial applicators.

(4) For each of the categories adopted pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Federal agency plan must include standards for the certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides that meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 through 171.103, except as provided at paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(5) A Federal agency may adopt a limited use category for commercial applicators. A limited use category covers a small number of applicators engaged in a use that does not clearly fit within any of the categories in § 171.101, and allows only the use of a limited set of restricted use pesticides by specific application methods. A Federal agency adopting a limited use category must include all of the following in its certification plan:

(i) A definition of the limited use category, specifying the restricted use pesticide(s), use sites, and specific application methods permitted.

(ii) An explanation of why it is not practical to include the limited use category in any of the categories in § 171.101.

(iii) A requirement that candidates for certification in a limited use category pass the written examination covering the core standards at § 171.103(c) and demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticide(s) covered by the limited use category.

(iv) Specific competency standards for the limited use category.

(v) The process by which applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticides covered by the limited use category based on the competency standards identified in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section. This does not have to be accomplished by a written examination.

(vi) A description of the recertification standards for the limited use category and how those standards meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107.

(vii) A description of the limited use certification credential. The credential must clearly state that the applicator is only authorized to purchase and use the specific restricted use pesticide(s) identified in that credential.

(6) The Federal agency standards for certification examinations must meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.103(a)(2), including a description of any alternative identification that the Federal agency will authorize in addition to a valid, government-issued photo identification.

(7) The Federal agency standards for the recertification of applicators of restricted use pesticides must meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107.

(8) The Federal agency standards for the direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified private and commercial applicators of restricted use pesticides must meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201.

(9) The Federal agency certification plan must describe the credentials or documents the Federal agency will issue to each certified applicator verifying certification of applicators.

(10) A Federal agency may waive any or all of the procedures specified in § 171.103, § 171.105, and § 171.107 of this part when certifying applicators in reliance on valid current certifications issued by another State, Tribal, or Federal agency under an EPA-approved certification plan. The Federal agency certification plan must explain whether, and if so, under what circumstances, the Federal agency will certify applicators based in whole or in part on their holding a valid current certification issued by another State, Tribe or Federal agency. Such certifications are subject to all of the conditions listed at § 171.303(a)(9).
