
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart D - Certification Plans
###### ยง 171.303 Requirements for State certification plans.
####### Requirement to submit reports to the Agency.

(c)The State must agree to submit the following reports to the Agency in a manner and containing the information that the Agency requires:

(1) An annual report to be submitted by the State lead agency to the Agency by the date established by the Agency that includes all of the following information:

(i) The number of new general private applicator certifications and recertifications issued during the last 12 month reporting period, and total number of applicators holding a valid general private applicator certification at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.

(ii) For each private applicator category specified in the certification plan, the numbers of new certifications and recertifications issued during the last 12 month reporting period, and the total number holding valid certifications in each category at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.

(iii) The numbers of new commercial applicator certifications and recertifications issued during the last 12 month reporting period, and the total number of applicators certified in at least one commercial applicator certification category at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.

(iv) For each commercial applicator certification category or subcategory specified in the certification plan, the numbers of new certifications and recertifications issued during the last 12 month reporting period, and the total number of commercial applicators holding a valid certification in each category or subcategory at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.

(v) A description of any modifications made to the approved certification plan during the last 12 month reporting period that have not been previously evaluated by the Agency under ยง 171.309(a)(3).

(vi) A description of any proposed changes to the certification plan that the State anticipates making during the next reporting period that may affect the certification program.

(vii) A summary of enforcement activities related to the use of restricted use pesticides during the last 12 month reporting period.

(2) Any other reports reasonably required by the Agency in its oversight of restricted use pesticides.
