
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart D - Certification Plans
###### ยง 171.311 EPA-administered applicator certification programs.
####### Denial, suspension, modification, or revocation of a certification.

(e)

(1) The Agency may suspend all or part of a certified applicator's certification issued under an EPA-administered plan or, after opportunity for a hearing, may deny issuance of, or revoke or modify, an applicator's certification issued under an EPA-administered plan, if the Agency finds that the applicator has been convicted under FIFRA section 14(b), has been subject to a final order imposing a civil penalty under FIFRA section 14(a), or has committed any of the following acts:

(i) Used any registered pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its labeling.

(ii) Made available for use, or used, any registered pesticide classified for restricted use other than in accordance with FIFRA section 3(d) and any regulations promulgated thereunder.

(iii) Refused to keep and maintain any records required pursuant to this section.

(iv) Made false or fraudulent records, invoices or reports.

(v) Failed to comply with any limitations or restrictions on a valid current certificate.

(vi) Violated any other provision of FIFRA and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

(vii) Allowed a noncertified applicator to use a restricted use pesticide in a manner inconsistent with the requirements in ยง 171.201.

(viii) Violated any provision of a State, Tribal or Federal agency certification plan or its associated laws or regulations.

(2) If the Agency intends to deny, revoke, or modify an applicator's certification, the Agency will:

(i) Notify the applicator of all of the following:

(A) The legal and factual ground(s) upon which the denial, revocation, or modification is based.

(B) The time period during which the denial, revocation or modification is effective, whether permanent or otherwise.

(C) The conditions, if any, under which the applicator may become certified or recertified.

(D) Any additional conditions the Agency may impose.

(ii) Provide the applicator an opportunity to request an informal hearing prior to final Agency action to deny, revoke or modify the certification, and the opportunity to offer written statements of facts, explanations, comments, and arguments relevant to the proposed action.

(3) If a hearing is requested by an applicator pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, the Agency will appoint an attorney in the Agency as Presiding Officer to conduct an informal hearing. No person shall serve as Presiding Officer if he or she has had any prior connection with the specific case.

(4) The Presiding Officer appointed pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section shall do all of the following:

(i) Conduct a fair, orderly and impartial hearing, without unnecessary delay.

(ii) Provide such procedural opportunities as the Presiding Officer may deem necessary to a fair and impartial hearing.

(iii) Consider all relevant evidence, explanation, comment and argument properly submitted.

(iii) Promptly notify the parties of the final decision and order. Such an order is a final Agency action subject to judicial review in accordance with FIFRA section 16.

(5) If the Agency determines that the public health, interest or welfare warrants immediate action to suspend the certified applicator's certification during the course of the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(2) through (e)(4) of this section, the Agency will do all of the following:

(i) Notify the certified applicator of the ground(s) upon which the suspension action is based.

(ii) Notify the certified applicator of the time period during which the suspension is effective.

(iii) Notify the certified applicator of the Agency's intent to revoke or modify the certification, as appropriate, in accord with paragraph (e)(2) of this section. If such revocation or modification notice has not previously been issued, it must be issued at the same time the suspension notice is issued.

(6) In cases where the act constituting grounds for suspension of a certification is neither willful nor contrary to the public interest, health, or safety, the certified applicator may have additional procedural rights under 5 U.S.C. 558(c).

(7) Any notice, decision or order issued by the Agency under paragraph (e) of this section, and any documents and information considered by the Presiding Officer in issuing an order under paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section, shall be available to the public except as otherwise provided by FIFRA section 10 or by 40 CFR part 2. Any hearing at which oral testimony is presented shall be open to the public, except that the Presiding Officer may exclude the public to the extent necessary to allow presentation of information that may be entitled to confidentiality under FIFRA section 10 or under 40 CFR part 2.
