
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 171 - CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS
##### Subpart D - Certification Plans
###### ยง 171.311 EPA-administered applicator certification programs.
####### Implementation of EPA-administered plans in Indian country.

(d)

(1) In any area of Indian country where this section is applicable and consistent with the provisions of ยง 171.307(c), the Agency, in consultation with the appropriate Indian Tribe(s), may implement a plan for the certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides.

(2) An EPA-administered plan may be implemented in the Indian country of an individual Tribe or multiple Tribes located within a specified geographic area.

(3) Such a plan will meet the applicable requirements of ยง 171.303 and ยง 171.307(c). Prior to the implementation of the plan, the Agency will publish in thefor review and comment a summary of the proposed EPA-administered plan for the certification of applicators and will generally make available copies of the proposed plan within the area(s) of Indian country to be covered by the proposed plan. The summary will include all of the following:

(i) A description of the area(s) of Indian country to be covered by the proposed plan.

(ii) An outline of the proposed procedures and requirements for private and commercial applicator certification and recertification.

(iii) A description of the proposed categories and subcategories for certification.

(iv) A description of any proposed conditions for the recognition of State, Tribal, or Federal agency certifications.

(v) An outline of the proposed arrangements for coordination and communication between the Agency and the relevant Tribe(s) regarding applicator certifications and pesticide compliance monitoring and enforcement.
