
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 172 - EXPERIMENTAL USE PERMITS
##### Subpart A - Federal Issuance of Experimental Use Permits
###### ยง 172.3 Scope of requirement.

(a) An experimental use permit (EUP) is generally required for testing of any unregistered pesticide or any registered pesticide being tested for an unregistered use. However, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, certain of such tests are presumed not to involve unreasonable adverse effects and, therefore, do not require an EUP.

(b) Except as provided in subpart C of this part or as specifically determined by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), it may be presumed that EUPs are not required when:

(1) The experimental use of the pesticide is limited to:

(i) Laboratory or greenhouse tests,

(ii) Limited replicated field trials as described in paragraph (c) of this section to confirm such tests, or

(iii) Other tests as described in paragraph (c) of this section whose purpose is only to assess the pesticide's potential efficacy, toxicity, or other properties.

(2) The producer, applicator, or any other person conducting the test does not expect to receive any benefit in pest control from the pesticide's use.

(c) For purposes of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the following types of experimental tests are presumed not to need an EUP:

(1) A small-scale test involving use of a particular pesticide that is conducted on a cumulative total of no more than 10 acres of land per pest, except that:

(i) When testing for more than one target pest occurs at the same time and in the same locality, the 10 acre limitation shall encompass all of the target pests.

(ii) Any food or feed crops involved in, or affected by, such tests (including, but not limited to, crops subsequently grown on such land which may reasonably be expected to contain residues of the tested pesticides) shall be destroyed or consumed only by experimental animals unless an appropriate tolerance or exemption from a tolerance has been established under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) for residues of the pesticide.

(2) A small-scale test involving the use of a particular pesticide that is conducted on a cumulative total of no more than 1 surface acre of water per pest, except that:

(i) When the testing for more than one target pest occurs at the same time and in the same locality, the 1 acre limitation shall encompass all of the target pests.

(ii) Waters which are involved in or affected by such tests are not used for irrigation purposes, drinking water supplies, or body contact recreational activities.

(iii) Testing shall not be conducted in any waters which contain or affect fish, shellfish, plants, or animals taken for recreational or commercial purposes and used for food or feed, unless an appropriate tolerance or exemption from a tolerance has been established under the FFDCA for residues of the pesticide.

(3) Animal treatment tests involving the use of a particular pesticide that are conducted only on experimental animals which will not be used for food or feed, unless an appropriate tolerance or an exemption from a tolerance has been established for animal products and byproducts under the FFDCA for residues of the pesticide.

(d) The examples in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section are not all-inclusive and do not preclude testing in larger areas or larger numbers of units if the intended use meets the criteria of paragraph (a) of this section. However, tests which do not come within the examples in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section, absent a specific determination by EPA to the contrary, require an EUP. Persons intending to conduct tests who are uncertain whether the testing may be conducted without a permit may submit a request for determination to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b). Such a request shall include the information listed in ยง 172.4(b)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(iii) and in the case of an unregistered product, the information in ยง 172.4(b)(3)(i).

(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, EPA may, on a case-by-case basis, require that certain testing of a particular pesticide or class of pesticides be carried out under an EUP, if it is determined that such EPA oversight is warranted. If EPA determines that an EUP is required, it will notify the developer of the pesticide of the need for an EUP and provide opportunity for comment or objections before imposing the requirement.
