
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 172 - EXPERIMENTAL USE PERMITS
##### Subpart A - Federal Issuance of Experimental Use Permits
###### ยง 172.8 Program surveillance and reporting of data.

(a) The permittee shall supervise the test program and evaluate the results of testing at each site of application. It will further be the responsibility of the permittee to report immediately to the Administrator, or to any person designated by him, any adverse effects from use of, or exposure to, the pesticide.

(b) The permittee shall submit the following reports to the Registration Division during the experimental program.

(1) [Reserved]

(2) A final report shall be submitted within 180 days after the expiration of the permit, unless a request for extension of time is approved, and shall include:

(i) All data gathered during the testing program; field notes need not be submitted but must be maintained and submitted upon request;

(ii) A description of the disposition of any pesticide containers and any unused pesticides including amounts disposed of and the method and site of disposition; and

(iii) The method of disposition of affected food and/or feed.

(c) In addition to the reporting requirements provided for elsewhere in this part, in the case of any meat-producing animals or birds that receive a direct treatment or application of any experimental use pesticide, the name and location of the packing plant where the animals will be processed shall be sent to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Washington, DC 20250, at least 10 days before the animals are to be shipped for slaughter. This requirement may be waived, on request, by the USDA. These provisions do not exempt treated food-producing animals and their products from compliance with other applicable inspection requirements.

(d) Failure to submit required reports may constitute grounds for revocation of the permit.

(e) For the purpose of supervising the use of experimental use pesticides, the Agency may require the permittee or any participant to give reasonable advance notification of the intended dates, times, and sites on which such experimental use pesticide will be applied.

(f) The permittee or participants in the experimental use program will permit any authorized representative of the Agency, upon presentation of official identification, entry, at any reasonable time, to any premises involved in the testing program to inspect and to determine whether there has been compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit.
