
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 172 - EXPERIMENTAL USE PERMITS
##### Subpart B - State Issuance of Experimental Use Permits
###### ยง 172.26 EPA review of permits.
####### Revocation by EPA.

(c)(1) The Administrator may revoke an experimental use permit issued under this subpart if he finds:

(i) That its terms and conditions are being violated;

(ii) That its terms and conditions are inadequate to avoid unreasonable adverse effects on the environment;

(iii) That new evidence demonstrates that any tolerance upon which the permit is based will be inadequate to protect the public health, or that any exemption from the requirement for a tolerance is no longer appropriate; or

(iv) That a failure by the permittee to meet any other provisions of FIFRA or this subpart has occurred.

(2) The Administrator shall, prior to revoking a State experimental use permit, consult with the State agency which issued the permit, except in cases where continued use of the pesticide under the permit would create an imminent hazard to man or the environment.

(3) The Administrator shall notify the designated State agency, in writing, of the revocation, and the State agency shall notify the permittee, also in writing, of the revocation.

(4) The permittee shall notify all participants of the revocation within 10 days after he receives notice of revocation.

(5) The revocation of a permit shall not preclude the Administrator from initiating civil or criminal sanctions for violations of the permit conditions or other violations, as authorized by law.

(6) If a permittee wishes to contest the revocation of a State experimental use permit, he shall, within 30 days after receipt of notice of such revocation, file with the Administrator a written request for an opportunity to confer with the Administrator or his designee. The revocation of the permit shall remain effective pending the outcome of any conference requested under this paragraph.

(7) If a permittee requests a conference under paragraph (c)(6) of this section, the Administrator shall provide the permittee:

(i) With information as to the time, place and nature of the conference, and of the matters of fact and law asserted by the Agency as grounds for the revocation action;

(ii) An opportunity to offer a written statement of facts, explanations, and arguments relevant to the revocation action;

(iii) All other procedural opportunities to which the permittee may be entitled by law.

(8) The Administrator shall notify the affected permittee and State Agency, in writing, of his final decision on the revocation matter as expeditiously as possible and shall attempt to do so within 30 days after the conclusion of a conference conducted under paragraph (c)(7). The Administrator shall also provide the permittee and the State agency with a written statement of the reasons for his decision, which shall take into account the evidence presented pursuant to paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section.

(9) A decision to revoke a permit under paragraph (c)(8) of this section is a final Agency action subject to judicial review as provided by law.
