
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 172 - EXPERIMENTAL USE PERMITS
##### Subpart C - Notification for Certain Genetically Modified Microbial Pesticides
###### ยง 172.45 Requirement for a notification.
####### Selection and use of containment and inactivation controls.

(e)(1) Selection and use of containment and inactivation controls for a particular microbial pesticide shall take into account the following:

(i) Factors relevant to the microbial pesticide's ability to survive in the environment.

(ii) Potential routes of release in air, solids, and liquids; in or on waste materials and equipment; in or on people (including maintenance and custodial personnel); and in or on other organisms such as insects and rodents.

(iii) Procedures for transfer of materials between facilities.

(iv) Plans for routine or emergency clean-up and test termination.

(2) For purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, EPA will presume that compliance with the containment provisions of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) "Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules" (51 FR 16958, May 7, 1986) constitutes selection and use of adequate containment and inactivation controls.

(3) The selection of containment and inactivation controls shall be approved by an authorized official of the organization that is conducting the test prior to commencement of the test.

(4) Records shall be developed and maintained describing the selection and use of the containment and inactivation controls, including contingency plans for emergency clean-up and test termination, that will be used during the test. These records shall be available for inspection at the test facility. In addition, these records shall be submitted to EPA at EPA's request and within the time frame specified in EPA's request.

(5) Subsequent to any EPA review of the containment/inactivation controls selected under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, changes to the controls necessary to prevent unreasonable adverse effects must be made upon EPA request. Failure to comply with EPA's request shall result in automatic revocation of the exemption from the requirement to submit a Notification.
