
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 173 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING THE RESCISSION OF STATE PRIMARY ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR PESTICIDE USE VIOLATIONS
##### ยง 173.4 Informal conference and settlement.

(a) After receipt of a notice of intent to rescind, the State may request that an informal conference be held between appropriate State and EPA officials to discuss the findings made in the notice of intent to rescind. The informal conference shall then be held in the State. If the Administrator finds, on the basis of information submitted by the State at the conference, that the deficiencies specified in the notice did not exist or were corrected by the State, the Administrator shall issue an order withdrawing the notice of intent to rescind and terminating the rescission proceeding.

(b) At any time after receipt of a notice of intent to rescind and before the issuance of a final order, the State and EPA may resolve the issues raised in the notice by agreement. Any settlement agreement shall be in writing and signed by the parties and shall:

(1) Detail the deficiencies found in the State program;

(2) Specify the steps the State has taken or will take to remedy the deficiencies; and

(3) Set forth a precise schedule for each remedial action yet to be initiated.

(c) If a written agreement is signed by the parties, the Administrator shall issue an order withdrawing the notice of intent to rescind and terminating the rescission proceeding. If the State does not comply with the terms of the settlement agreement, the Administrator may reissue the notice of intent to rescind.
