
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix B to Subpart S of Part 51 - Test Procedures
####### First-chance high-speed mode.

(1)(i) The mode timer shall reset (mt = 0) when the vehicle engine speed is between 2200 and 2800 rpm. If the engine speed falls below 2200 rpm or exceeds 2800 rpm for more than two seconds in one excursion, or more than six seconds over all excursions within 30 seconds of the final measured value used in the pass/fail determination, the measured value shall be invalidated and the mode continued. If any excursion lasts for more than ten seconds, the mode timer shall reset to zero (mt = 0) and timing resumed. The high-speed mode length shall be 90 seconds elapsed time (mt = 90).

(ii) The pass/fail analysis shall begin after an elapsed time of 10 seconds (mt = 10). A pass or fail determination shall be made for the vehicle and the mode shall be terminated as follows:

(A) The vehicle shall pass the high-speed mode and the mode shall be terminated at an elapsed time of 90 seconds (mt = 90) if any measured values are less than or equal to the applicable short test standards as described in paragraph (VI)(a)(2) of this appendix.

(B) The vehicle shall fail the high-speed mode and the mode shall be terminated if the requirements of paragraph (VI)(c)(1)(ii)(A) of this appendix are not satisfied by an elapsed time of 90 seconds (mt = 90).
