
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix B to Subpart S of Part 51 - Test Procedures
####### Second-chance test.

(d)(1) If the vehicle fails either mode of the first-chance test, the test timer shall reset to zero (tt = 0) and a second-chance test shall commence. The second-chance test shall be performed based on the first-chance test failure mode or modes as follows:

(A) If the vehicle failed only the first-chance high-speed mode, the second-chance test shall consist of a second-chance high-speed mode as described in paragraph (VI)(d)(2) of this appendix. The overall maximum test time shall be 280 seconds (tt = 280).

(B) If the vehicle failed only the first-chance idle mode, the second-chance test shall consist of a second-chance pre-conditioning mode followed immediately by a second-chance idle mode as described in paragraphs (VI)(d) (3) and (4) of this appendix. The overall maximum test time shall be 425 seconds (tt = 425).

(C) If both the first-chance high-speed mode and first-chance idle mode were failed, the second-chance test shall consist of the second-chance high-speed mode followed immediately by the second-chance idle mode as described in paragraphs (VI)(d) (2) and (4) of this appendix. However, if during this second-chance procedure the vehicle fails the second-chance high-speed mode, then the second-chance idle mode may be eliminated. The overall maximum test time shall be 425 seconds (tt = 425).
