
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 178 - OBJECTIONS AND REQUESTS FOR HEARINGS
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Filing Objections and Requests for Hearing
###### ยง 178.25 Form and manner of submission of objections.

(a) To be considered by the Administrator, an objection must:

(1) Be in writing.

(2) Specify with particularity the provision(s) of the order, regulation, or denial objected to, the basis for the objection(s), and the relief sought.

(3) Be signed by the objector.

(4) State the objector's name and mailing address.

(5) Be accompanied by the fee prescribed by ยง 180.33(i) of this chapter, if the objection is to an order or regulation issued under part 180 of this chapter.

(6) Be submitted to the hearing clerk.

(7) Be received by the Hearing Clerk not later than the close of business of the 60th day following the date of the publication in theof the order to which the objection is taken (or, if such 60th day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, not later than the close of business of the next government business day after such 60th day).

(b) Submissions to the hearing clerk shall be made as follows:

(1) Mailed submissions should be addressed to: Office of the Hearing Clerk (1900L), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001.

(2) For hand/courier delivery the Office of the Hearing Clerk is located at Suite 350, 1099 14St., NW., Washington, DC 20005.
