
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart S - Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements
###### Appendix B to Subpart S of Part 51 - Test Procedures
####### Second-chance high-speed mode,Ford Motor Company and Honda vehicles.

(2)-(i)The engines of 1981-1987 Ford Motor Company vehicles and 1984-1985 Honda Preludes shall be shut off for not more than 10 seconds and then shall be restarted. The probe may be removed from the tailpipe or the sample pump turned off if necessary to reduce analyzer fouling during the restart procedure. This procedure may also be used for 1988-1989 Ford Motor Company vehicles but should not be used for other vehicles.

(ii) The mode timer shall reset (mt = 0) when the vehicle engine speed is between 2200 and 2800 rpm. If the engine speed falls below 2200 rpm or exceeds 2800 rpm for more than two seconds in one excursion, or more than six seconds over all excursions within 30 seconds of the final measured value used in the pass/fail determination, the measured value shall be invalidated and the mode continued. The minimum second-chance high-speed mode length shall be determined as described in paragraphs (VI)(d)(2) (iii) and (iv) of this appendix. If any excursion lasts for more than ten seconds, the mode timer shall reset to zero (mt = 0) and timing resumed. The maximum second-chance high-speed mode length shall be 180 seconds elapsed time (mt = 180).
