
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 179 - FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart E - Hearing Procedures
###### § 179.87 Procedures for preliminary conference.

Parties in a hearing must appear at the preliminary conference(s) prepared to present a position on the matters specified in § 179.85. A preliminary conference may be held by telephone, or other electronic means, if appropriate.

(a) To expedite the hearing, parties are encouraged to prepare in advance for the conference. Parties should cooperate with each other and should request information and begin preparation of testimony at the earliest possible time. Failure of a party to appear at the preliminary conference or to raise matters that could reasonably be anticipated and resolved at that time will not delay the progress of the hearing, and constitutes a waiver of the rights of the party regarding such matters as objections to the agreements reached, actions taken, or rulings issued. Such failure to appear may also be grounds for striking the party's participation under § 179.42(f).

(b) Each party shall bring to the preliminary conference the following specific information, which will be filed with the hearing clerk under § 179.80:

(1) Any additional information to supplement the submission which may have been filed under § 179.83, and/or which may be filed if approved under § 179.83(c).

(2) A list setting forth each person who has been identified as a witness whose oral or written testimony will be offered by the party at the hearing, with a full curriculum vitae for each and a summary of the expected testimony (including a list of the principal exhibits on which the witness will rely) or a statement as to when such a summary will be furnished. A party may amend its witness and document list to add, delete, or substitute witnesses or documents.

(c) The presiding officer may hold preliminary conferences off the record in an effort to reach agreement on disputed factual or procedural questions.

(d) The presiding officer shall issue and file under § 179.80 a written order reciting the actions taken at each preliminary conference and setting forth the schedule for the hearing. The order will control the subsequent course of the hearing unless modified by the presiding officer for good cause.
