
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 179 - FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart E - Hearing Procedures
###### ยง 179.90 Summary decisions.

(a) After the hearing commences, a party may file a written motion, with or without supporting affidavits or brief, for a summary decision on any issue in the hearing. Any other party may, within 10 days after service of the motion, which time may be extended for an additional 10 days for good cause shown, serve opposing affidavits or brief or countermove for summary decision. The presiding officer may set the matter for argument and call for the submission of briefs if not submitted by the parties.

(b) The presiding officer will grant the motion if the objections, requests for hearing, other pleadings, affidavits, and other material filed in connection with the hearing, or matters officially noticed, show that there is no genuine disagreement as to any material fact bearing on the issue and that a party is entitled to summary decision.

(c) Affidavits should set forth facts that would be admissible in evidence and show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated. When a properly supported motion for summary decision is made, a party opposing the motion may not rest upon mere allegations or denials or general descriptions of positions and contentions; affidavits or other responses must demonstrate specifically that there is a genuine issue of material fact for the hearing.

(d) Should it appear from the affidavits of a party opposing the motion that for sound reasons stated, facts essential to justify the opposition cannot be presented by affidavit, the presiding officer may deny the motion for summary decision, order a continuance to permit affidavits or additional evidence to be obtained, or issue other just order.

(e) If a summary decision is not rendered upon all issues or for all the relief asked, and evidentiary facts need to be developed, the presiding officer will issue an order specifying the facts that appear without substantial controversy and directing further evidentiary proceedings. The facts so specified will be deemed established.

(f) A party may obtain interlocutory review by the Administrator of a summary decision of the presiding officer.
