
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 179 - FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart E - Hearing Procedures
###### ยง 179.94 Transcripts.

(a) The hearing clerk shall make arrangements to have all oral testimony stenographically reported or recorded and transcribed, with evidence that is admitted in the form of written testimony or exhibits attached or incorporated as appropriate.

(b) Unless the presiding officer orders otherwise, parties shall have 15 days from the date that the transcript of particular oral testimony first becomes available to propose corrections in the transcript of that testimony. Corrections are permitted only for transcription errors. The presiding officer shall promptly order justified corrections.

(c) As soon as practicable after the taking of the last evidence, the presiding officer shall certify:

(1) That the original transcript is a true transcript of the oral testimony offered or received at the hearing, except in such particulars as the presiding officer specifies.

(2) That the written testimony and exhibits accompanying the transcript are all the written testimony and exhibits introduced at the hearing, with such exceptions as the presiding officer specifies.

(3) The transcript with attached or incorporated material, as so certified by the presiding officer, shall be submitted to and filed by the hearing clerk under ยง 179.80.

(d) Copies of the transcript shall be available to the public in accordance with ยง 179.81; parties may make special arrangements through the hearing clerk to obtain copies on an ongoing, expedited basis.
