
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 179 - FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart F - Decisions and Appeals
###### ยง 179.107 Appeal from or review of initial decision.

(a) A party may appeal an initial decision to the Administrator by filing exceptions with the hearing clerk, and serving them on the other parties, within the period specified in the initial decision. The period may not exceed 30 days, unless extended by the Administrator under paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) Exceptions must specifically identify alleged errors in the findings of fact or conclusions of law or policy in the initial decision and, if errors in the findings of fact are alleged, must provide supporting citations to evidence of record. Oral argument before the Administrator may be requested in the exceptions.

(c) Any reply to the exceptions is to be filed and served within the timeperiod specified in the initial decision. The timeperiod may not exceed 30 days after the end of the period (including any extensions) for filing exceptions, unless extended by the Administrator under paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) The Administrator may extend the time for filing exceptions or replies to exceptions for good cause shown.

(e) If the Administrator decides to hear oral argument, the parties will be informed of the date, time, and place; the amount of time allotted to each party, and the issues to be addressed.
