
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 179 - FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart G - Judicial Review
###### § 179.130 Administrative record.

(a) For purposes of judicial review, the record of a hearing that culminates in a final decision of the Administrator under § 179.105(d) or § 179.112(c) ruling on an objection shall consist of:

(1) The objection ruled on (and any request for hearing that was included with the objection).

(2) Any order issued under § 180.7(g) of this chapter to which the objection related, and:

(i) The regulation or petition denial that was the subject of that order.

(ii) The petition to which such order responded.

(iii) Any amendment or supplement of the petition.

(iv) The data and information submitted in support of the petition.

(v) The notice of filing of the petition.

(3) Any order issued under § 180.29(f) of this chapter to which the objection related, the regulation that was the subject of that order, and each related Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.

(4) The comments submitted by members of the public in response to the Notice of Filing or Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, and the information submitted as part of the comments, the Administrator's response to comments and the documents or information relied on by the Administrator in issuing the regulation or order.

(5) All other documents or information submitted to the docket for the rulemaking in question under parts 177 or part 180 of this chapter.

(6) The Notice of Hearing published under § 179.20.

(7) All notices of participation filed under § 179.42.

(8) Anynotice issued under this part that pertains to the proceeding.

(9) All submissions filed under § 179.80.

(10) Any document of which official notice was taken under § 179.95.

(b) The record of the administrative proceeding is closed:

(1) With respect to the taking of evidence, when specified by the presiding officer.

(2) With respect to pleadings, at the time specified in § 179.98(a) for the filing of briefs.

(c) The presiding officer may reopen the record to receive further evidence at any time before the filing of the initial decision.
