
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart A - Definitions and Interpretative Regulations
###### ยง 180.1 Definitions and interpretations.
####### FFDCA

(c)means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, 21 U.S.C. 301-392.

(d) Raw agricultural commodities include, among other things, fresh fruits, whether or not they have been washed and colored or otherwise treated in their unpeeled natural form; vegetables in their raw or natural state, whether or not they have been stripped of their outer leaves, waxed, prepared into fresh green salads, etc.; grains, nuts, eggs, raw milk, meats, and similar agricultural produce. It does not include foods that have been processed, fabricated, or manufactured by cooking, freezing, dehydrating, or milling.

(e) Where a raw agricultural commodity bearing a pesticide chemical residue that has been exempted from the requirement of a tolerance, or which is within a tolerance permitted under FFDCA section 408, is used in preparing a processed food, the processed food will not be considered unsafe within the meaning of FFDCA sections 402 and 408(a), despite the lack of a tolerance or exemption for the pesticide chemical residue in the processed food, if:

(1) The pesticide chemical has been used in or on the raw agricultural commodity in conformity with a tolerance under this section;

(2) The pesticide chemical residue has been removed to the extent possible in good manufacturing practice; and

(3) The concentration of the pesticide chemical residue in the processed food is not greater than the tolerance prescribed for the pesticide chemical residue on the raw agricultural commodity.

(f) For the purpose of computing fees as required by ยง 180.33, each group of related crops listed in ยง 180.34(e) and each crop group or subgroup listed in ยง 180.41 is counted as a single raw agricultural commodity in a petition or request for tolerances or exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.

(g) Tolerances and exemptions established for pesticide chemicals in or on the general category of raw agricultural commodities listed in column A apply to the corresponding specific raw agricultural commodities listed in column B. However, a tolerance or exemption for a specific commodity in column B does not apply to the general category in column A.

(h) Unless otherwise specified in this paragraph or in tolerance regulations prescribed in this part for specific pesticide chemicals, the raw agricultural commodity or processed food to be examined for pesticide residues, shall consist of the whole raw agricultural commodity or processed food.

(1) The raw agricultural commodity bananas, when examined for pesticide residues, shall not include any crown tissue or stalk.

(2) Shell shall be removed and discarded from nuts before examination for pesticide residues.

(3) Caps (hulls) shall be removed and discarded from strawberries before examination for pesticide residues.

(4) Stems shall be removed and discarded from melons before examination for pesticide residues.

(5) Roots, stems, and outer sheaths (or husks) shall be removed and discarded from garlic bulbs and dry bulb onions, and only the garlic cloves and onion bulbs shall be examined for pesticide residues.

(6) Where a tolerance is established on a root vegetable including tops and/or with tops, and the tops and the roots are marketed together, they shall be analyzed separately and neither the pesticide residue on the roots nor the pesticide residue on the tops shall exceed the tolerance level, except that in the case of carrots, parsnips, and rutabagas, the tops shall be removed and discarded before analyzing roots for pesticide residues.

(7) The crowns (leaves at the top of the fruit) shall be removed and discarded from pineapples before examination for pesticide residues.
