
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart A - Definitions and Interpretative Regulations
###### ยง 180.3 Tolerances for related pesticide chemicals.
####### O,S,O,S,O,S,O,S

(7) Where tolerances are established for residues of-dimethyl phosphoramidothioate, resulting from the use of acephate (-dimethyl acetylphos-phoramidothioate) and/or- dimethylphosphoramidothioate on the same agricultural commodity, the total amount of-dimethyl-phosphoramidothioate shall not yield more residue than that permitted by the higher of the two tolerances.

(8) Where a tolerance is established for more than one pesticide having the metabolites 1-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-methylurea (DCPMU) and 3,4-dichlorophenylurea (DCPU) found in or on a raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such residues shall not exceed the highest established tolerance for a pesticide having these metabolites.

(9) Where a tolerance is established for more than one pesticide having as metabolites compounds containing the benzimidazole moiety found in or on a raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such residues shall not exceed the highest established tolerance for a pesticide having these metabolites.

(10) Where a tolerance is established for triclopyr, chloropyrifos, and chlorpyrifos-methyl having the common metabolite 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol on the same raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such residues shall not exceed the highest established tolerance for any of the pesticides having the metabolites.

(11) Where tolerances are established for more than one pesticide having the metabolite 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol found in or on the raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such residues shall not exceed the highest established tolerance for a pesticide having this metabolite.

(12) Where tolerances are established for residues of methomyl, resulting from the use of thiodicarb and/or methomyl on the same raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of methomyl shall not yield more residue than that permitted by the higher of the two tolerances.

(e) Except as noted in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, where residues from two or more chemicals in the same class are present in or on a raw agricultural commodity the tolerance for the total of such residues shall be the same as that for the chemical having the lowest numerical tolerance in this class, unless a higher tolerance level is specifically provided for the combined residues by a regulation in this part.

(1) Where residues from two or more chemicals in the same class are present in or on a raw agricultural commodity and there are available methods that permit quantitative determination of each residue, the quantity of combined residues that are within the tolerance may be determined as follows:

(i) Determine the quantity of each residue present.

(ii) Divide the quantity of each residue by the tolerance that would apply if it occurred alone, and multiply by 100 to determine the percentage of the permitted amount of residue present.

(iii) Add the percentages so obtained for all residues present.

(iv) The sum of the percentages shall not exceed 100 percent.

(2) Where residues from two or more chemicals in the same class are present in or on a raw agricultural commodity and there are available methods that permit quantitative determinations of one or more, but not all, of the residues, the amounts of such residues as may be determinable shall be deducted from the total amount of residues present and the remainder shall have the same tolerance as that for the chemical having the lowest numerical tolerance in that class. The quantity of combined residues that are within the tolerance may be determined as follows:

(i) Determine the quantity of each determinable residue present.

(ii) Deduct the amounts of such residues from the total amount of residues present and consider the remainder to have the same tolerance as that for the chemical having the lowest numerical tolerance in that class.

(iii) Divide the quantity of each determinable residue by the tolerance that would apply if it occurred alone and the quantity of the remaining residue by the tolerance for the chemical having the lowest numerical tolerance in that class and multiply by 100 to determine the percentage of the permitted amount of residue present.

(iv) Add the percentages so obtained for all residues present.

(v) The sum of the percentages shall not exceed 100 percent.

(3) The following pesticides are members of the class of dithiocarbamates:

(4) The following are members of the class of chlorinated organic pesticides:

(5) The following are members of the class of cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticides:

(6) The following pesticides are members of the class of dinitrophenols:
