
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart B - Procedural Regulations
###### ยง 180.7 Petitions proposing tolerances or exemptions for pesticide residues in or on raw agricultural commodities or processed foods.
####### http://www.epa.gov/pesticides/regulating/registering/submissions/index.htm.

(1) An informative summary of the petition and of the data, information, and arguments submitted or cited in support of the petition. Both a paper and electronic copy of the summary should be submitted. The electronic copy should be formatted according to the Office of Pesticide Programs' current standard for electronic data submission as specified at

(2) A statement that the petitioner agrees that such summary or any information it contains may be published as a part of the notice of filing of the petition to be published under FFDCA section 408(d)(3) and as a part of a proposed or final regulation issued under FFDCA section 408.

(3) The name, chemical identity, and composition of the pesticide chemical residue and of the pesticide chemical that produces the residue.

(4) Data showing the recommended amount, frequency, method, and time of application of the pesticide chemical.

(5) Full reports of tests and investigations made with respect to the safety of the pesticide chemical, including full information as to the methods and controls used in conducting those tests and investigations.

(6) Full reports of tests and investigations made with respect to the nature and amount of the pesticide chemical residue that is likely to remain in or on the food, including a description of the analytical methods used. (See ยง 180.34 for further information about residue tests.)

(7) Proposed tolerances for the pesticide chemical residue if tolerances are proposed.

(8) Practicable methods for removing any amount of the residue that would exceed any proposed tolerance.

(9) A practical method for detecting and measuring the levels of the pesticide chemical residue in or on the food, or for exemptions, a statement why such a method is not needed.

(10) If the petition relates to a tolerance for a processed food, reports of investigations conducted using the processing method(s) used to produce that food.

(11) Such information as the Administrator may require to make the determination under FFDCA section 408(b)(2)(C).

(12) Such information as the Administrator may require on whether the pesticide chemical may have an effect in humans that is similar to an effect produced by a naturally occurring estrogen or other endocrine effects.

(13) Information regarding exposure to the pesticide chemical residue due to any tolerance or exemption already granted for such residue.

(14) Information concerning any maximum residue level established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for the pesticide chemical residue addressed in the petition. If a Codex maximum residue level has been established for the pesticide chemical residue and the petitioner does not propose that this level be adopted, a statement explaining the reasons for this departure from the Codex level.

(15) Such other data and information as the Administrator requires by regulation to support the petition.

(16) Reasonable grounds in support of the petition.

(c) The data specified under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(16) of this section should be on separate sheets or sets of sheets, suitably identified. If such data have already been submitted with an earlier application, the present petition may incorporate it by reference to the earlier one.
