
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart B - Procedural Regulations
###### § 180.31 Temporary tolerances.

(a) A temporary tolerance (or exemption from a tolerance) established under the authority of FFDCA section 408(r) shall be deemed to be a tolerance (or exemption from the requirement of a tolerance) for the purposes of FFDCA section 408(a)(1) or (a)(2) and for the purposes of § 180.30.

(b) A request for a temporary tolerance or a temporary exemption from a tolerance by a person who has obtained or is seeking an experimental permit for a pesticide chemical under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act shall be accompanied by such data as are available on subjects outlined in § 180.7(b) and an advance deposit to cover fees as provided in § 180.33.

(c) To obtain a temporary tolerance, a requestor must comply with the petition procedures specified in FFDCA section 408(d) and § 180.7 except as provided in this section.

(d) A temporary tolerance or exemption from a tolerance may be issued for a period designed to allow the orderly marketing of the raw agricultural commodities produced while testing a pesticide chemical under an experimental permit issued under authority of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act if the Administrator concludes that the safety standard in FFDCA section 408(b)(2) or (c), as applicable, is met. Subject to the requirements of FFDCA section 408(e), a temporary tolerance or exemption from a tolerance may be revoked if the experimental permit is revoked, or may be revoked at any time if it develops that the application for a temporary tolerance contains a misstatement of a material fact or that new scientific data or experience with the pesticide chemical indicates that it does not meet the safety standard in FFDCA section 408(b)(2) or (c), as applicable.

(e) Conditions under which a temporary tolerance is established shall include:

(1) A limitation on the amount of the chemical to be used on the designated crops permitted under the experimental permit.

(2) A limitation for the use of the chemical on the designated crops to bona fide experimental use by qualified persons as indicated in the experimental permit.

(3) A requirement that the person or firm which obtains the experimental permit for which the temporary tolerance is established will immediately inform the Environmental Protection Agency of any reports on findings from the experimental use that have a bearing on safety.

(4) A requirement that the person or firm which obtained the experimental permit for which the temporary tolerance is established will keep records of production, distribution, and performance for a period of 2 years and, on request, at any reasonable time, make these records available to any authorized officer or employee of the Environmental Protection Agency.
