
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart B - Procedural Regulations
###### ยง 180.33 Fees.

(a) Each petition for the establishment of a new tolerance or a tolerance higher than already established, shall be accompanied by a fee of $80,950, plus $2,025 for each raw agricultural commodity more than nine on which the establishment of a tolerance is requested, except as provided in paragraphs (b), (d), and (h) of this section.

(b) Each petition for the establishment of a tolerance at a lower numerical level or levels than a tolerance already established for the same pesticide chemical, or for the establishment of a tolerance on additional raw agricultural commodities at the same numerical level as a tolerance already established for the same pesticide chemical, shall be accompanied by a fee of $18,500 plus $1,225 for each raw agricultural commodity on which a tolerance is requested.

(c) Each petition for an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance or repeal of an exemption shall be accompanied by a fee of $14,925.

(d) Each petition or request for a temporary tolerance or a temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance shall be accompanied by a fee of $32,325 except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. A petition or request to renew or extend such temporary tolerance or temporary exemption shall be accompanied by a fee of $4,600.

(e) A petition or request for a temporary tolerance for a pesticide chemical which has a tolerance for other uses at the same numerical level or a higher numerical level shall be accompanied by a fee of $16,075, plus $1,225 for each raw agricultural commodity on which the temporary tolerance is sought.

(f) Each petition for revocation of a tolerance shall be accompanied by a fee of $10,125. Such fee is not required when, in connection with the change sought under this paragraph, a petition is filed for the establishment of new tolerances to take the place of those sought to be revoked and a fee is paid as required by paragraph (a) of this section.

(g) If a petition or a request is not accepted for processing because it is technically incomplete, the fee, less $2,025 for handling and initial review, shall be returned. If a petition is withdrawn by the petitioner after initial processing, but before significant Agency scientific review has begun, the fee, less $2,025 for handling and initial review, shall be returned. If an unacceptable or withdrawn petition is resubmitted, it shall be accompanied by the fee that would be required if it were being submitted for the first time.
