
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart B - Procedural Regulations
###### ยง 180.30 Judicial review.

(a) Under FFDCA section 408(h), judicial review is available in the United States Courts of Appeal as to the following actions:

(1) Regulations establishing general procedures and requirements under FFDCA section 408(e)(1)(C).

(2) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(f)(1)(C) requiring the submission of data.

(3) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to establishment, modification, or revocation of a tolerance or exemption under FFDCA section 408(d)(4), or any regulation that is the subject of such an order. The underlying action here is Agency disposition of a petition seeking the establishment, modification, or revocation of a tolerance or exemption.

(4) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to the denial of a petition under FFDCA section 408(d)(4).

(5) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to the establishment, modification, suspension, or revocation of a tolerance or exemption under FFDCA section 408(e)(1)(A) or (e)(1)(B). The underlying action here is the establishment, modification, suspension, or revocation of a tolerance or exemption upon the initiative of EPA including EPA actions pursuant to FFDCA sections 408(b)(2)(B)(v), 408(b)(2)(E)(ii), 408(d)(4)(C)(ii), 408(l)(4), and 408(q)(1).

(6) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to the revocation or modification of a tolerance or exemption under FFDCA section 408(f)(2) for noncompliance with requirements for the submission of data.

(7) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to rules issued under FFDCA sections 408(n)(3) and 408(d) or (e) regarding determinations pertaining to State authority to establish regulatory limits on pesticide chemical residues.

(8) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to orders issued under FFDCA section 408(n)(5)(C) authorizing States to establish regulatory limits not identical to certain tolerances or exemptions.

(b) Any issue as to which review is or was obtainable under paragraph (a) of this section shall not be the subject of judicial review under any other provision of law. In part, this means that, for the Agency actions subject to the objection procedure in FFDCA section 408(g)(2), judicial review is not available unless an adversely affected party exhausts these objection procedures, and any petition procedures preliminary thereto.
