
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart B - Procedural Regulations
###### ยง 180.40 Tolerances for crop groups.
####### Data.

(4)Processing data on representative crops are required prior to establishment of a group tolerance if the processing of the representative commodity has the potential to result in residues in a processed commodity at a higher concentration than in the representative commodity. Residue data are required on raw commodities derived from the crops in the crop group tolerance but not directly covered by the tolerance. Animal feeding studies with a representative crop are required if the representative crop is used as a significant animal feed.

(g) If maximum residues (tolerances) for the representative crops vary by more than a factor of 5 from the maximum value observed for any crop in the group, a group or subgroup tolerance will ordinarily not be established. In this case individual crop tolerances, rather than group tolerances, will normally be established.

(h) Alternatively, a commodity with a residue level significantly higher or lower than the other commodities in a group may be excluded from the group tolerance (e.g., cereal grains, except corn). In this case an individual tolerance at the appropriate level for the unique commodity would be established, if necessary. The alternative approach of excluding a commodity with a significantly higher or lower residue level will not be used to establish a tolerance for a commodity subgroup. Most subgroups have only two representative commodities; to exclude one such commodity and its related residue data would likely provide insufficient residue information to support the remainder of the subgroup. Residue data from crops additional to those representative crops in a grouping may be required for systemic pesticides.

(i) The commodities included in the groups will be updated periodically either at the initiative of the Agency or at the request of an interested party. Persons interested in updating this section should contact the Registration Division of the Office of Pesticide Programs.

(j)(1) When EPA amends a crop group in a manner that expands or contracts the commodities that are covered by the group, EPA will initially retain the pre-existing as well as the revised crop group in the CFR.

(2) Where the revised crop group has the same number as the pre-existing crop group, the revised crop group number will be followed by a hyphen and the final two digits of the year in which it was established (e.g., if Crop Group 1 is amended in 2007, the revised group will be designated as Crop Group 1-07). If the pre-existing crop group had crop subgroups, these subgroups will be numbered in a similar fashion in the revised crop group. The name of the revised crop group will not be changed from the pre-existing crop group unless the revision so changes the composition of the crop group that the pre-existing name is no longer accurate.

(3) Where EPA amends a crop group by creating one or more different crop groups, the revised crop groups will have different numbers and names (e.g., the amendment of Crop Group 19 through the creation of Crop Groups 25 and 26). The pre-existing crop group will be amended to identify the revised crop group(s).

(4) Once a revised crop group is established, EPA will no longer establish tolerances under the pre-existing crop group. At appropriate times, EPA will amend tolerances for crop groups that have been superseded by revised crop groups to conform the pre-existing crop group to the revised crop group. Once all of the tolerances for the pre-existing crop group have been updated, the pre-existing crop group will be removed from the CFR.

(k) Establishment of a tolerance does not substitute for the additional need to register the pesticide under a companion law, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. The Registration Division of the Office of Pesticide Programs should be contacted concerning procedures for registration of new uses of a pesticide.
