
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart C - Specific Tolerances
###### ยง 180.123 Inorganic bromide residues resulting from fumigation with methyl bromide; tolerances for residues.
####### General.

(a)(1) Tolerances are established for residues of inorganic bromides (calculated as Br) in or on the following food commodities which have been fumigated with the antimicrobial agent and insecticide methyl bromide after harvest (with the exception of strawberry):

(2) Inorganic bromide may be present as a residue in certain processed food in accordance with the following conditions:

(i) When inorganic bromide residues are present as a result of fumigation of the processed food with methyl bromide or from such fumigation in addition to the authorized use of methyl bromide on the source raw agricultural commodity, as provided for in this part, the total residues of inorganic bromides (calculated as Br) shall not exceed the following levels:

(A) 400 parts per million in or on egg, dried and herb, processed and spice.

(B) 325 parts per million in or on cheese, parmesan and cheese, roquefort cheese.

(C) 250 parts per million in or on tomato, concentrated products and fig, dried fruit.

(D) 125 parts per million in or on processed food other than those listed above.

(ii) When inorganic bromide residues are present in malt beverage, fermented in accordance with 21 CFR 172.730(a)(2), the amount shall not exceed 25 parts per million (calculated as Br).

(iii) Where tolerances are established on both the raw agricultural commodities and processed food made therefrom, the total residues of inorganic bromides in or on the processed food shall not be greater than those designated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, unless a higher level is established elsewhere in this part.

(3) Tolerances are established for residues of inorganic bromides (calculated as Br) as follows:

(i) 400 parts per million for residues in or on dog food, resulting from fumigation with methyl bromide.

(ii) 125 parts per million for residues in or on processed commodities for animal feedstuffs from barley, corn, grain sorghum, oat, rice, rye and wheat, resulting directly from fumigation with methyl bromide or from carryover and concentration of residues of inorganic bromides from fumigation of the grains with methyl bromide.
