
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart C - Specific Tolerances
###### ยง 180.127 Piperonyl butoxide; tolerances for residues.
####### General.

(a)(1) Tolerances for residues of the insecticide piperonyl butoxide [(butyl carbityl)(6-propyl piperonyl)ether] are established in or on the following food commodities:

(2) Piperonyl butoxide may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:

(i) It is used or intended for use in combination with pyrethrins for control of insects:

(A) In cereal grain mills and in storage areas for milled cereal grain products, whereby the amount of piperonyl butoxide is at least equal to but not more than 10 times the amount of pyrethrins in the formulation.

(B) On the outer ply of multiwall paper bags of 50 pounds or more capacity in amounts not exceeding 60 milligrams per square foot, whereby the amount of piperonyl butoxide is equal to 10 times the amount of pyrethrins in the formulation. Such treated bags are to be used only for food, dried.

(C) On cotton bags of 50 pounds or more capacity in amounts not exceeding 55 milligrams per square foot of cloth, whereby the amount of piperonyl butoxide is equal to 10 times the amount of pyrethrins in the formulation. Such treated bags are constructed with waxed paper liners and are to be used only for food, dried that contain 4 percent fat or less.

(D) In two-ply bags consisting of cellophane/polyolefin sheets bound together by an adhesive layer when it is incorporated in the adhesive. The treated sheets shall contain not more than 50 milligrams of piperonyl butoxide per square foot (538 milligrams per square meter). Such treated bags are to be used only for packaging plum, prune, dried; grape, raisin; and other fruit, dried and are to have a maximum ratio of 3.12 milligrams of piperonyl butoxide per ounce of fruit (0.10 milligram of piperonyl butoxide per gram of product).

(E) In food processing and food storage areas: Provided, That the food is removed or covered prior to such use.

(ii) It is used or intended for use in combination with pyrethrins and N-octylbicycloheptene dicarboximide for insect control in accordance with 21 CFR 178.3730.

(iii) A tolerance of 10 parts per million is established for residues of piperonyl butoxide in or on:

(A) Grain, cereal, milled fractions when present therein as a result of its use in cereal grain mills and in storage areas for milled cereal grain products.

(B) Food, dried when present as a result of migration from its use on the outer ply of multiwall paper bags of 50 pounds or more capacity.

(C) Food treated in accordance with 21 CFR 178.3730.

(D) Food, dried that contain 4 percent fat, or less, when present as a result of migration from its use on the cloth of cotton bags of 50 pounds or more capacity constructed with waxed paper liners.

(E) Food treated in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D) and (E) of this section.

(iv) To assure safe use of the pesticide, its label and labeling shall conform to that registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and it shall be used in accordance with such label and labeling.

(v) Where tolerances are established on both raw agricultural commodities and processed food made therefrom, the total residues of piperonyl butoxide in or on the processed food shall not be greater than that permitted by the larger of the two tolerances.

(3) Piperonyl butoxide may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:

(i) It is used or intended for use in combination with pyrethrins for control of insects:

(A) On the outer ply of multiwall paper bags of 50 pounds or more capacity in amounts not exceeding 60 milligrams per square foot.

(B) On cotton bags of 50 pounds or more capacity in amounts not exceeding 55 milligrams per square foot of cloth. Such treated bags are constructed with waxed paper liners and are to be used only for feed, dried that contain 4 percent fat or less.

(ii) It is used in combination with pyrethrins, whereby the amount of piperonyl butoxide is equal to 10 times the amount of pyrethrins in the formulation. Such treated bags are to be used only for feed, dried.

(iii) A tolerance of 10 parts per million is established for residues of piperonyl butoxide when present as the result of migration:

(A) In or on feed, dried from its use on the outer ply of multiwall paper bags of 50 pounds or more capacity.

(B) In or on feed, dried that contain 4 percent fat, or less, from its use on cotton bags of 50 pounds or more capacity constructed with waxed paper liners.

(iv) To assure safe use of the pesticide, its label and labeling shall conform to that registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

(v) Where tolerances are established on both the raw agricultural commodities and food, processed made therefrom, the total residues of piperonyl butoxide in or on the processed food shall not be greater than that permitted by the larger of the two tolerances.
