
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart U - Economic Incentive Programs
###### ยง 51.492 State program election and submittal.
####### Serious CO nonattainment areas.

(b)(1) A State or authorized governing body for any serious CO nonattainment area shall submit a plan revision to implement an EIP, in accordance with the requirements of this part, if:

(i) A milestone demonstration is not submitted within the required period, pursuant to section 187(d) of the Act.

(ii) The Administrator notifies the State, pursuant to section 187(d) of the Act, that a milestone has not been met.

(iii) The Administrator determines, pursuant to section 186(b)(2) of the Act that the NAAQS for CO has not been attained by the applicable date for that area. Such revision shall be submitted within 9 months after such failure or determination.

(2) Submittals made pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section shall be sufficient, together with a transportation control program, to achieve the specific annual reductions in CO emissions set forth in the implementation plan by the attainment date. Submittals made pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section shall be adequate, in combination with other elements of the revised plan, to reduce the total tonnage of emissions of CO in the area by at least 5 percent per year in each year after approval of the plan revision and before attainment of the NAAQS for CO.
