
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart U - Economic Incentive Programs
###### ยง 51.493 State program requirements.
####### Statement of goals and rationale.

(a)This element shall include a clear statement as to the environmental problem being addressed, the intended environmental and economic goals of the program, and the rationale relating the incentive-based strategy to the program goals.

(1) The statement of goals must include the goal that the program will benefit both the environment and the regulated entities. The program shall be designed so as to meaningfully meet this goal either directly, through increased or more rapid emissions reductions beyond those that would be achieved through a traditional regulatory program, or, alternatively, through other approaches that will result in real environmental benefits. Such alternative approaches include, but are not limited to, improved administrative mechanisms, reduced administrative burdens on regulatory agencies, improved emissions inventories, and the adoption of emission caps which over time constrain or reduce growth-related emissions beyond traditional regulatory approaches.

(2) The incentive-based strategy shall be described in terms of one of the following three strategies:

(i) Emission-limiting strategies, which directly specify limits on total mass emissions, emission-related parameters (e.g., emission rates per unit of production, product content limits), or levels of emissions reductions relative to a program baseline that affected sources are required to meet, while providing flexibility to sources to reduce the cost of meeting program requirements.

(ii) Market-response strategies, which create one or more incentives for affected sources to reduce emissions, without directly specifying limits on emissions or emission-related parameters that individual sources or even all sources in the aggregate are required to meet.

(iii) Directionally-sound strategies, for which adequate procedures to quantify emissions reductions are not defined.
