
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart U - Economic Incentive Programs
###### ยง 51.493 State program requirements.
####### Program baseline.

(c)A program baseline shall be defined as a basis for projecting program results and, if applicable, for initializing the incentive mechanism (e.g., for marketable permits programs). The program baseline shall be consistent with, and adequately reflected in, the assumptions and inputs used to develop an area's RFP plans and attainment and maintenance demonstrations, as applicable. The State shall provide sufficient supporting information from the areawide emissions inventory and other sources to justify the baseline used in the EIP.

(1) For EIP's submitted in conjunction with, or subsequent to, the submission of any areawide progress plan due at the time of EIP submission (e.g., the 15 percent RFP plan and/or subsequent 3 percent plans) or an attainment demonstration, a State may exercise flexibility in setting a program baseline provided the program baseline is consistent with and reflected in all relevant progress plans or attainment demonstration. A flexible program baseline may be based on the lower of actual, allowable, or some other intermediate or lower level of emissions. For any EIP submitted prior to the submittal of an attainment demonstration, the State shall include the following with its EIP submittal:

(i) A commitment that its subsequent attainment demonstration and all future progress plans, if applicable, will be consistent with the EIP baseline.

(ii) A discussion of how the baseline will be integrated into the subsequent attainment demonstration, taking into account the potential that credit issued prior to the attainment demonstration may no longer be surplus relative to the attainment demonstration.

(2) Except as provided for in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, for EIP's submitted during a time period when any progress plans are required but not yet submitted (e.g., the 15 percent RFP plan and/or the subsequent 3 percent plans), the program baseline shall be based on the lower-of-actual-or-allowable emissions. In such cases, actual emissions shall be taken from the most appropriate inventory, such as the 1990 actual emission inventory (due for submission in November 1992), and allowable emissions are the lower of SIP-allowable emissions or the level of emissions consistent with source compliance with all Federal requirements related to attainment and maintenance of the NAAQS.

(3) For EIP's that are designed to implement new and/or previously existing RACT requirements through emissions trading and are submitted in conjunction with, or subsequent to, the submission of an associated RACT rule, a State may exercise flexibility in setting a program baseline provided the program baseline is consistent with and reflected in the associated RACT rule, and any applicable progress plans and attainment demonstrations.

(4) For EIP's that are designed to implement new and/or previously existing RACT requirements through emissions trading and are submitted prior to the submission of a required RFP plan or attainment demonstration, States also have flexibility in determining the program baseline, provided the following conditions are met.

(i) For EIP's that implement new RACT requirements for previously unregulated source categories through emissions trading, the new RACT requirements must reflect, to the extent practicable, increased emissions reductions beyond those that would be achieved through a traditional RACT program.

(ii) For EIP's that impose new RACT requirements on previously unregulated sources in a previously regulated source category (e.g., RACT "catch-up" programs), the new incentive-based RACT rule shall, in the aggregate, yield reductions in actual emissions at least equivalent to that which would result from source-by-source compliance with the existing RACT limit for that source category.

(5) A program baseline for individual sources shall, as appropriate, be contained or incorporated by reference in federally-enforceable operating permits or a federally-enforceable SIP.

(6) An initial baseline for TCM's shall be calculated by establishing the preexisting conditions in the areas of interest. This may include establishing to what extent TCM's have already been implemented, what average vehicle occupancy (AVO) levels have been achieved during peak and off-peak periods, what types of trips occur in the region, and what mode choices have been made in making these trips. In addition, the extent to which travel options are currently available within the region of interest shall be determined. These travel options may include, but are not limited to, the degree of dispersion of transit services, the current ridership rates, and the availability and usage of parking facilities.

(7) Information used in setting a program baseline shall be of sufficient quality to provide for at least as high a degree of accountability as currently exists for traditional control requirements for the categories of sources affected by the program.
