
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart U - Economic Incentive Programs
###### ยง 51.493 State program requirements.
####### Replicable emission quantification methods.

(d)This program element, for programs other than those which are categorized as directionally-sound, shall include credible, workable, and replicable methods for projecting program results from affected sources and, where necessary, for quantifying emissions from individual sources subject to the EIP. Such methods, if used to determine credit taken in attainment, RFP, and maintenance demonstrations, as applicable, shall yield results which can be shown to have a level of certainty comparable to that for source-specific standards and traditional methods of control strategy development. Such methods include, as applicable, the following elements:

(1) Specification of quantification methods. This element shall specify the approach or the combination or range of approaches that are acceptable for each source category affected by the program. Acceptable approaches may include, but are not limited to:

(i) Test methods for the direct measurement of emissions, either continuously or periodically.

(ii) Calculation equations which are a function of process or control system parameters, ambient conditions, activity levels, and/or throughput or production rates.

(iii) Mass balance calculations which are a function of inventory, usage, and/or disposal records.

(iv) EPA-approved emission factors, where appropriate and adequate.

(v) Any combination of these approaches.

(2) Specification of averaging times.

(i) The averaging time for any specified mass emissions caps or emission rate limits shall be consistent with: attaining and maintaining all applicable NAAQS, meeting RFP requirements, and ensuring equivalency with all applicable RACT requirements.

(ii) If the averaging time for any specified VOC or NOmass emissions caps or emission rate limits for stationary sources (and for other sources, as appropriate) is longer than 24 hours, the State shall provide, in support of the SIP submittal, a statistical showing that the specified averaging time is consistent with attaining the ONAAQS and satisfying RFP requirements, as applicable, on the basis of typical summer day emissions; and, if applicable, a statistical showing that the longer averaging time will produce emissions reductions that are equivalent on a daily basis to source-specific RACT requirements.

(3) Accounting for shutdowns and production curtailments. This accounting shall include provisions which ensure that:

(i) Emissions reductions associated with shutdowns and production curtailments are not double-counted in attainment or RFP demonstrations.

(ii) Any resultant "shifting demand" which increases emissions from other sources is accounted for in such demonstrations.

(4) Accounting for batch, seasonal, and cyclical operations. This accounting shall include provisions which ensure that the approaches used to account for such variable operations are consistent with attainment and RFP plans.

(5) Accounting for travel mode choice options, as appropriate, for TCM's. This accounting shall consider the factors or attributes of the different forms of travel modes (e.g., bus, ridesharing) which determine which type of travel an individual will choose. Such factors include, but are not limited to, time, cost, reliability, and convenience of the mode.
