
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart U - Economic Incentive Programs
###### ยง 51.493 State program requirements.
####### Source requirements.

(e)This program element shall include all source-specific requirements that constitute compliance with the program. Such requirements shall be appropriate, readily ascertainable, and State and federally enforceable, including, as applicable:

(1) Emission limits.

(i) For programs that impose limits on total mass emissions, emission rates, or other emission-related parameter(s), there must be an appropriate tracking system so that a facility's limits are readily ascertainable at all times.

(ii) For emission-limiting EIP's that authorize RACT sources to meet their RACT requirements through RACT/non-RACT trading, such trading shall result in an exceptional environmental benefit. Demonstration of an exceptional environmental benefit shall require either the use of the statutory offset ratios for nonattainment areas as the determinant of the amount of emissions reductions that would be required from non-RACT sources generating credits for RACT sources or, alternatively, a trading ratio of 1.1 to 1, at a minimum, may be authorized, provided exceptional environmental benefits are otherwise demonstrated.

(2) Monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.

(i) An EIP (or the SIP as a whole) must contain test methods and, where necessary, emission quantification methodologies, appropriate to the emission limits established in the SIP. EIP sources must be subject to clearly specified MRR requirements appropriate to the test methods and any applicable quantification methodologies, and consistent with the EPA's title V rules, where applicable. Such MRR requirements shall provide sufficiently reliable and timely information to determine compliance with emission limits and other applicable strategy-specific requirements, and to provide for State and Federal enforceability of such limits and requirements. Methods for MRR may include, but are not limited to:

(A) The continuous monitoring of mass emissions, emission rates, or process or control parameters.

(B) In situ or portable measurement devices to verify control system operating conditions.

(C) Periodic measurement of mass emissions or emission rates using reference test methods.

(D) Operation and maintenance procedures and/or other work practices designed to prevent, identify, or remedy noncomplying conditions.

(E) Manual or automated recordkeeping of material usage, inventories, throughput, production, or levels of required activities.

(F) Any combination of these methods. EIP's shall require that responsible parties at each facility in the EIP program certify reported information.

(ii) Procedures for determining required data, including the emissions contribution from affected sources, for periods for which required data monitoring is not performed, data are otherwise missing, or data have been demonstrated to have been inaccurately determined.

(3) Any other applicable strategy-specific requirements.
