
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart U - Economic Incentive Programs
###### ยง 51.493 State program requirements.
####### Enforcement mechanisms.

(i)The program shall contain a compliance instrument(s) for all program requirements, which is legally binding and State and federally enforceable. This program element shall also include a State enforcement program which defines violations, and specifies auditing and inspections plans and provisions for enforcement actions. The program shall contain effective penalties for noncompliance which preserve the level of deterrence in traditional programs. For all such programs, the manner of collection of penalties must be specified.

(1) Emission limit violations. (i) Programs imposing limits on mass emissions or emission rates that provide for extended averaging times and/or compliance on a multisource basis shall include procedures for determining the number of violations, the number of days of violation, and sources in violation, for statutory maximum penalty purposes, when the limits are exceeded. The State shall demonstrate that such procedures shall not lessen the incentive for source compliance as compared to a program applied on a source-by-source, daily basis.

(ii) Programs shall require plans for remedying noncompliance at any facility that exceeds a multisource emissions limit for a given averaging period. These plans shall be enforceable both federally and by the State.

(2) Violations of MRR requirements. The MRR requirements shall apply on a daily basis, as appropriate, and violations thereof shall be subject to State enforcement sanctions and to the Federal penalty of up to $25,000 for each day a violation occurs or continues. In addition, where the requisite scienter conditions are met, violations of such requirements shall be subject to the Act's criminal penalty sanctions of section 113(c)(2), which provides for fines and imprisonment of up to 2 years.
