
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart C - Specific Tolerances
###### ยง 180.441 Quizalofop ethyl; tolerances for residues.
####### General.

(a)(1) Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide quizalofop ethyl, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in the following table is to be determined by measuring only those quizalofop ethyl residues convertible to 2-methoxy-6-chloroquinoxaline, expressed as the stoichiometric equivalent of quizalofop ethyl, in or on the commodity.

(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide quizalofop ethyl, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in the following table is to be determined by measuring only those quizalofop ethyl residues convertible to quizalofop (2-[4-(6-chloroquinoxalin-2-yl-oxy)phenoxy]propanoic acid), expressed as quizalofop, in or on the commodity.

(3) Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide quizalofop-P-ethyl, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in the following table is to be determined by measuring quizalofop ethyl and quizalofop acid, expressed as the stoichiometric equivalent of quizalofop ethyl, in or on the commodity.
