
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Provisions for Implementation of 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard
###### ยง 51.900 Definitions.
####### CAA

(e)means the Clean Air Act as codified at 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q (2003).

(f) Applicable requirements means for an area the following requirements to the extent such requirements apply or applied to the area for the area's classification under section 181(a)(1) of the CAA for the 1-hour NAAQS at designation for the 8-hour NAAQS:

(1) Reasonably available control technology (RACT).

(2) Inspection and maintenance programs (I/M).

(3) Major source applicability cut-offs for purposes of RACT.

(4) Rate of Progress (ROP) reductions.

(5) Stage II vapor recovery.

(6) Clean fuels fleet program under section 183(c)(4) of the CAA.

(7) Clean fuels for boilers under section 182(e)(3) of the CAA.

(8) Transportation Control Measures (TCMs) during heavy traffic hours as provided under section 182(e)(4) of the CAA.

(9) Enhanced (ambient) monitoring under section 182(c)(1) of the CAA.

(10) Transportation controls under section 182(c)(5) of the CAA.

(11) Vehicle miles traveled provisions of section 182(d)(1) of the CAA.

(12) NOrequirements under section 182(f) of the CAA.

(13) Attainment demonstration or an alternative as provided under ยง 51.905(a)(1)(ii).

(14) Contingency measures required under CAA sections 172(c)(9) and 182(c)(9) that would be triggered based on a failure to attain the 1-hour NAAQS by the applicable attainment date or to make reasonable further progress toward attainment of the 1-hour NAAQS.
