
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart C - Specific Tolerances
###### ยง 180.510 Pyriproxyfen; tolerances for residues.
####### General.

(a)(1) Tolerances are established for residues of pyriproxyfen, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified is determined by measuring only pyriproxyfen, 2-[1-methyl-2-(4-phenoxyphenoxy) ethoxy]pyridine, in or on the commodity.

(2) A tolerance of 0.10 parts per million is established for all food commodities as a result of the proposed use of NYLAR in food handling establishments where food and food products are held, prepared, processed or served. Application is limited to space, general surface, spot, and/or crack and crevice treatment in food handling establishments where food and food products are held, processed, prepared and served. Space and general surface application may be used only when the facility is not in operation provided exposed food is covered or removed from the area being treated prior to application. Spot, and/or crack and crevice treatment may be used while the facility is in operation provided exposed food is covered or removed from the area being treated prior to application. Food contact surfaces should be thoroughly washed with an effective cleaning compound and rinced with potable water after use of the product. To assure safe use of this additive, its label and labeling shall conform to that registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and shall be used in accordance with such label and labeling.
