
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart C - Specific Tolerances
###### ยง 180.513 Chlorfenapyr; tolerances for residues.
####### General.,H

(a)(1) Tolerances are established for residues of chlorfenapyr, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only chlorfenapyr, 4-bromo-2-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(ethoxymethyl)-5-(trifluoromethyl)-1-pyrrole-3-carbonitrile, in or on the commodity.

(2) A tolerance of 0.01 parts per million is established for residues of chlorfenapyr in or on all food commodities (other than those covered by a higher tolerance as a result of use on growing crops) in food/feed handling areas where food/feed products are prepared, held, processed, or served and in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:

(i) Application shall be no greater than a 0.5% active ingredient solution for spot crack and crevice use in food/feed handling establishments, where food and food products are held, processed, prepared and/or served.

(ii) Application may only be undertaken when the facility is not in operation, and provided exposed food has been covered, or removed from the area being treated prior to application.

(iii) Food contact surfaces and equipment should be throughly washed with an effective cleaning compound, and rinsed with potable water after each use of the product.

(iv) Contamination of food or food contact surfaces shall be avoided. Application excludes any direct application to any food, food packaging, or any food contact surfaces.

(v) To assure safe use, the label and labeling shall conform to that registered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and it shall be used in accordance with such label and labeling.
