
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart X - Provisions for Implementation of 8-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard
###### ยง 51.910 What requirements for reasonable further progress (RFP) under sections 172(c)(2) and 182 apply for areas designated nonattainment for the 8-hour ozone NAAQS?
####### How does the RFP requirement of section 172(c)(2) of the Act apply to areas subject to that requirement?

(b)(1) An area subject to the RFP requirement of subpart 1 pursuant to ยง 51.902(b) or a moderate area subject to subpart 2 as covered in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section shall meet the RFP requirements of section 172(c)(2) of the Act as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) The State shall submit no later than 3 years following designation for the 8-hour NAAQS a SIP providing for RFP consistent with the following:

(i) For each area with an attainment demonstration requesting an attainment date of 5 years or less after designation for the 8-hour NAAQS, the attainment demonstration SIP shall require that all emissions reductions needed for attainment be implemented by the beginning of the attainment year ozone season.

(ii) For each area with an attainment demonstration requesting an attainment date more than 5 years after designation for the 8-hour NAAQS, the attainment demonstration SIP-

(A) Shall provide for a 15 percent emission reduction from the baseline year within 6 years after the baseline year.

(B) May use either NOor VOC emissions reductions (or both) to achieve the 15 percent emission reduction requirement. Use of NOemissions reductions must meet the criteria in section 182(c)(2)(C) of the Act.

(C) For each subsequent 3-year period out to the attainment date, the RFP SIP must provide for an additional increment of progress. The increment for each 3-year period must be a portion of the remaining emission reductions needed for attainment beyond those reductions achieved for the first increment of progress (e.g., beyond 2008 for areas designated nonattainment in June 2004). Specifically, the amount of reductions needed for attainment is divided by the number of years needed for attainment after the first increment of progress in order to establish an "annual increment." For each 3-year period out to the attainment date, the area must achieve roughly the portion of reductions equivalent to three annual increments.
