
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Mitigation Requirements
###### ยง 51.930 Mitigation of Exceptional Events.
####### Plan components.

(2)At a minimum, each mitigation plan developed under this paragraph shall contain provisions for the following:

(i) Public notification to and education programs for affected or potentially affected communities. Such notification and education programs shall apply whenever air quality concentrations exceed or are expected to exceed a national ambient air quality standard with an averaging time that is less than or equal to 24-hours.

(ii) Steps to identify, study and implement mitigating measures, including approaches to address each of the following:

(A) Measures to abate or minimize contributing controllable sources of identified pollutants.

(B) Methods to minimize public exposure to high concentrations of identified pollutants.

(C) Processes to collect and maintain data pertinent to the event.

(D) Mechanisms to consult with other air quality managers in the affected area regarding the appropriate responses to abate and minimize impacts.

(iii) Provisions for periodic review and evaluation of the mitigation plan and its implementation and effectiveness by the State and all interested stakeholders.

(A) With the submission of the initial mitigation plan according to the requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section that contains the elements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the State must:
