
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart D - Exemptions From Tolerances
###### ยง 180.1122 Inert ingredients of semiochemical dispensers; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.

(a) All inert ingredients of semiochemical dispenser products formulated with, and/or contained in, dispensers made of polymeric matrix materials (including the monomers, plasticizers, dispersing agents, antioxidants, UV protectants, stabilizers, and other inert ingredients) are exempted from the requirement of a tolerance when used as carriers in pesticide formulations for application to growing crops only. These dispensers shall conform to the following specifications:

(1) Exposure must be limited to inadvertent physical contact only. The design of the dispenser must be such as to preclude any contamination by its components of the raw agricultural commodity (RAC) or processed foods/feeds derived from the commodity by virtue of its proximity to the RAC or as a result of its physical size.

(2) The dispensers must be applied discretely. This exemption does not apply to components of semiochemical formulations applied in a broadcast manner either to a crop field plot or to individual plants.

(b) A semiochemical dispenser is a single enclosed or semi-enclosed unit that releases semiochemical(s) into the surrounding atmosphere via volatilization and is applied in a manner to provide discrete application of the semiochemical(s) into the environment.

(c) Semiochemicals are chemicals that are emitted by plants or animals and modify the behavior of receiving organisms. These chemicals must be naturally occurring or substantially identical to naturally occurring semiochemicals.
