
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter E - Pesticide Programs
#### PART 180 - TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD
##### Subpart D - Exemptions From Tolerances
###### ยง 180.1162 Acrylate polymers and copolymers; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.

(a) Acrylate polymers and copolymers are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as inert ingredients in pesticidal formulations applied to growing, raw agricultural commodities. This tolerance exemption covers the acrylate polymers/copolymers that are intrinsically safe and already listed in TSCA inventory or will meet the polymer tolerance exemption from requirements of premanufacturing notification under 40 CFR 723.250. Polymers exempted can be used as dispensers, resins, fibers, and beads, as long as the fibers, beads and resins particle sizes are greater than 10 microns and insoluble in water. This exemption pertains to the acrylate polymers/copolymers used as inert ingredients for sprayable and dispenser pesticide formulations that are applied on food crops. Any acrylate polymers/copolymers used for encapsulating material must be cleared as an inert ingredient when used in pesticide formulation applied on food crops.

(b) For the purposes of this exemption, acrylate polymers/copolymers used as inert ingredients in an end-use formulation must meet the definition for a polymer as given in 40 CFR 723.250(b), are not automatically excluded by 40 723.250(d), and meet the tolerance exemption criteria in 40 CFR 723.250(e)(1), 40 CFR 723.250 (e)(2) or 40 CFR 723.250(e)(3). Therefore, acrylate polymers and copolymers that are already listed in the TSCA inventory or will meet the polymer tolerance exemption under 40 CFR 723.250 as amended on March 29, 1995 are covered by this exemption.
