
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Mitigation Requirements
###### § 51.930 Mitigation of Exceptional Events.
####### § 51.1003 Attainment plan due dates and submission requirements.
######## Serious nonattainment areas subject to CAA section 189(d) for failing to attain the PM,NAAQS by the applicable Serious area attainment date.

(c)(1) For any Serious nonattainment area that fails to attain the PMNAAQS by the applicable Serious area attainment date, the state(s) shall submit a revised Serious area attainment plan that demonstrates that each year the area will achieve at least a 5 percent reduction in emissions of direct PMor a 5 percent reduction in emissions of a PMplan precursor based on the most recent emissions inventory for the area. The revised attainment plan shall meet the following requirements:

(i) Emissions inventory requirements set forth at § 51.1008(c)(1);

(ii) Emissions inventory requirements set forth at § 51.1008(c)(2);

(iii) Serious area attainment plan control strategy requirements set forth at § 51.1010;

(iv) Attainment demonstration and modeling requirements set forth at § 51.1011;

(v) Reasonable Further Progress (RFP) requirements set forth at § 51.1012;

(vi) Quantitative milestone requirements set forth at § 51.1013;

(vii) Contingency measure requirements set forth at § 51.1014; and

(viii) Nonattainment new source review plan requirements pursuant to § 51.165.

(2) The state(s) shall submit to the EPA the revised attainment plan meeting the requirements set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section no later than 12 months from the applicable Serious area attainment date that was previously missed.

(d) Any attainment plan submitted to the EPA under this section shall establish motor vehicle emissions budgets for the projected attainment year for the area, if applicable. The state shall develop such budgets according to the requirements of the transportation conformity rule as they apply to PMnonattainment areas (40 CFR part 93).
