
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Mitigation Requirements
###### § 51.930 Mitigation of Exceptional Events.
####### § 51.1004 Attainment dates.
######## Nonattainment areas reclassified to Serious.

(2)(i) Except for nonattainment areas that meet the criterion under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the projected attainment date for a Serious PMnonattainment area shall be as expeditious as practicable with the implementation of all control measures required under § 51.1010 but no later than the end of the tenth calendar year after the effective date of designation.

(ii) A state that submits an attainment plan that demonstrates that a Serious PMnonattainment area cannot practicably attain the PMNAAQS by the end of the tenth calendar year following the effective date of designation of the area with the implementation of all control measures required under § 51.1010(a) must request an extension of the Serious area attainment date consistent with § 51.1005(b). The request must propose a projected attainment date for the nonattainment area that is as expeditious as practicable, but no later than the end of the fifteenth calendar year following the effective date of designation of the area.

(3) Serious nonattainment areas subject to CAA section 189(d) for failing to attain by the applicable Serious area attainment date. The projected attainment date for a Serious PMnonattainment area that failed to attain the PMNAAQS by the applicable Serious area attainment date shall be as expeditious as practicable, but no later than 5 years following the effective date of the EPA's finding that the area failed to attain by the original Serious area attainment date, except that the Administrator may extend the attainment date to the extent the Administrator deems appropriate, for a period no greater than 10 years from the effective date of the EPA's determination that the area failed to attain, considering the severity of nonattainment and the availability and feasibility of pollution control measures.

(b) Except for attainment plans that meet the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) or (a)(3) of this section, the Administrator shall approve an attainment date at the same time and in the same manner in which the Administrator approves the attainment plan for the area.

(1) In accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, if a state demonstrates that a Moderate PMnonattainment area cannot practicably attain the PMNAAQS by the end of the sixth calendar year following the effective date of designation of the area, the EPA shall proceed under the provisions of § 51.1002(b)(1) to reclassify the area to Serious through notice-and-comment rulemaking.

(2) [Reserved]
