
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Mitigation Requirements
###### ยง 51.930 Mitigation of Exceptional Events.
####### ยง 51.1005 Attainment date extensions.
######## Serious nonattainment areas subject to CAA section 189(d) for failing to attain by the applicable Serious area attainment date.
######### Sensitivity-based contribution analysis.

(ii)If the concentration-based contribution analysis does not support a finding of insignificant contribution, based on the facts and circumstances of the area, then the state may choose to submit an analysis evaluating the sensitivity of PMlevels in the area to a decrease in emissions of the precursor in order to determine whether the resulting air quality changes are significant. If the estimated air quality changes determined in the sensitivity analysis are not significant, based on the facts and circumstances of the area, then the EPA may approve the demonstration.

(iii) If a major stationary source precursor demonstration is approved by the EPA, the state will not be required to control emissions of the relevant precursor from existing major stationary sources in the current attainment plan.

(3)(i) A NNSR precursor demonstration must evaluate the sensitivity of PMlevels in the nonattainment area to an increase in emissions of a particular precursor in order to determine whether the resulting air quality changes are significant. If the estimated air quality changes determined in the sensitivity analysis are not significant, based on the facts and circumstances of the area, the state may use that information to identify new major stationary sources and major modifications of a precursor that will not be considered to contribute significantly to PMlevels that exceed the standard in the nonattainment area.

(ii) If a NNSR precursor demonstration for a particular PMnonattainment area is approved, the state may exempt such new major stationary sources or major modifications of the particular precursor from the requirements for PMin ยง 51.165.

(b) If an area with one or more precursor demonstrations approved by the EPA is required to submit another PMattainment plan in accordance with ยง 51.1003 of this part, the current precursor demonstration(s) will not apply to the new plan. The state must submit the appropriate updated precursor demonstration(s) if it seeks to exempt sources of a particular precursor from control requirements in the new Serious area attainment demonstration or in the NNSR program for the Serious area.
