
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Mitigation Requirements
###### ยง 51.930 Mitigation of Exceptional Events.
####### ยง 51.1008 Emissions inventory requirements.

(a) For any nonattainment area initially classified as Moderate, the state shall submit to the EPA all of the following:

(1) A base year inventory for the nonattainment area for all emissions sources that meets the following minimum criteria:

(i) The inventory year shall be one of the 3 years for which monitored data were used for designations or another technically appropriate inventory year if justified by the state in the plan submission.

(ii) The inventory shall include actual emissions of all sources within the nonattainment area.

(iii) The emissions values shall be either annual total emissions, average-season-day emissions, or both, as appropriate for the relevant PMNAAQS. The state shall include as part of the plan a rationale for providing annual or seasonal emissions, and the justification for the period used for any seasonal emissions calculations.

(iv) The inventory shall include direct PMemissions, separately reported PMfilterable and condensable emissions, and emissions of the scientific PMprecursors, including precursors that are not PMplan precursors pursuant to a precursor demonstration under ยง 51.1006.

(v) The state shall report emissions as point sources according to the point source emissions thresholds of the Air Emissions Reporting Requirements (AERR), 40 CFR part 51, subpart A.

(vi) The detail of the emissions inventory shall be consistent with the detail and data elements required by 40 CFR part 51, subpart A.

(2) An attainment projected inventory for the nonattainment area that meets the following minimum criteria:

(i) The year of the projected inventory shall be the most expeditious year for which projected emissions show modeled PMconcentrations below the level of the NAAQS.
