
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Mitigation Requirements
###### § 51.930 Mitigation of Exceptional Events.
####### § 51.1011 Attainment demonstration and modeling requirements.
######## Nonattainment areas reclassified as Serious.

(b)The attainment demonstration due to the EPA as part of a Serious area attainment plan required under § 51.1003(b) or (c) shall meet all of the following criteria:

(1) The attainment demonstration shall show the projected attainment date for the Serious nonattainment area that is as expeditious as practicable.

(2) The attainment demonstration shall meet the requirements of Appendix W of this part and shall include inventory data, modeling results, and emission reduction analyses on which the state has based its projected attainment date.

(3) The base year for the emissions inventories required for attainment demonstrations under this paragraph shall be one of the 3 years used for designations or another technically appropriate inventory year if justified by the state in the plan submission.

(4) The control strategies modeled as part of a Serious area attainment demonstration shall be consistent with the control strategies required pursuant to § 51.1003 and § 51.1010.

(5) Required timeframe for obtaining emissions reductions. For each Serious nonattainment area, the attainment plan must provide for implementation of all control measures needed for attainment as expeditiously as practicable. All control measures must be implemented no later than the beginning of the year containing the applicable attainment date, notwithstanding BACM implementation deadline requirements in § 51.1010.
