
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Mitigation Requirements
###### § 51.930 Mitigation of Exceptional Events.
####### § 51.1012 Reasonable further progress (RFP) requirements.

(a) Each attainment plan for a PMnonattainment area shall include an RFP plan that demonstrates that sources in the area will achieve such annual incremental reductions in emissions of direct PMand PMplan precursors as are necessary to ensure attainment of the applicable PMNAAQS as expeditiously as practicable. The RFP plan shall include all of the following:

(1) A schedule describing the implementation of control measures during each year of the applicable attainment plan. Control measures for Moderate area attainment plans are required in § 51.1009, and control measures for Serious area attainment plans are required in § 51.1010.

(2) RFP projected emissions for direct PMand all PMplan precursors for each applicable milestone year, based on the anticipated implementation schedule for control measures required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. For purposes of establishing motor vehicle emissions budgets for transportation conformity purposes (as required in 40 CFR part 93) for a PMnonattainment area, the state shall include in its RFP submission an inventory of on-road mobile source emissions in the nonattainment area for each milestone year.

(3) An analysis that presents the schedule of control measures and estimated emissions changes to be achieved by each milestone year, and that demonstrates that the control strategy will achieve reasonable progress toward attainment between the applicable base year and the attainment year. The analysis shall rely on information from the base year inventory for the nonattainment area required in § 51.1008(a)(1) and the attainment projected inventory for the nonattainment area required in § 51.1008(a)(2), in addition to the RFP projected emissions required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) An analysis that demonstrates that by the end of the calendar year for each milestone date for the area determined in accordance with § 51.1013(a), pollutant emissions will be at levels that reflect either generally linear progress or stepwise progress in reducing emissions on an annual basis between the base year and the attainment year. A demonstration of stepwise progress must be accompanied by appropriate justification for the selected implementation schedule.

(5) At the state's election, an analysis that identifies air quality targets associated with the RFP projected emissions identified for the milestone years at the design value monitor locations.

(b) For a multi-state or multi-jurisdictional nonattainment area, the RFP plans for each state represented in the nonattainment area shall demonstrate RFP on the basis of common multi-state inventories. The states or jurisdictions within which the area is located must provide a coordinated RFP plan. Each state in a multi-state nonattainment area must ensure that the sources within its boundaries comply with enforceable emission levels and other requirements that in combination with the reductions planned in other state(s) within the nonattainment area will provide for attainment as expeditiously as practicable and demonstrate RFP consistent with these regulations.
