
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart Y - Mitigation Requirements
###### ยง 51.930 Mitigation of Exceptional Events.
####### ยง 51.1013 Quantitative milestone requirements.
######## Nonattainment areas reclassified as Serious.

(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, each attainment plan submission that demonstrates that a Serious PMnonattainment area can attain a particular PMNAAQS by the end of the tenth calendar year following the effective date of designation of the area with the implementation of control measures as required under ยง 51.1010(a) shall contain quantitative milestones to be achieved no later than milestone dates of 7.5 years and 10.5 years, respectively, from the date of designation of the area.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, each attainment plan submission that demonstrates that a Serious PMnonattainment area cannot practicably attain a particular PMNAAQS by the end of the tenth calendar year following the date of designation of the area with the implementation of control measures required under ยง 51.1010(a) shall contain quantitative milestones to be achieved no later than milestone dates of 7.5 years, 10.5 years, and 13.5 years from the date of designation of the area. If the attainment date is beyond 13.5 years from the date of designation of the area, such attainment plan shall also contain a quantitative milestones to be achieved no later than milestone dates of 16.5 years, respectively, from the date of designation of the area.

(iii) The plan shall contain quantitative milestones to be achieved by the milestone dates specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable, and that provide for objective evaluation of reasonable further progress toward timely attainment of the applicable PMNAAQS in the area. At a minimum, each quantitative milestone plan must include a milestone for tracking progress achieved in implementing SIP control measures, including BACM and BACT, by each milestone date.
