
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter F - Radiation Protection Programs
#### PART 194 - CRITERIA FOR THE CERTIFICATION AND RE-CERTIFICATION OF THE WASTE ISOLATION PILOT PLANT'S COMPLIANCE WITH THE 40 CFR PART 191 DISPOSAL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 194.4 Conditions of compliance certification.

(a) Any certification of compliance issued pursuant to section 8(d)(1) of the WIPP LWA may include such conditions as the Administrator finds necessary to support such certification.

(b) Whether stated therein or not, the following conditions shall apply in any such certification:

(1) The certification shall be subject to modification, suspension or revocation by the Administrator. Any suspension of the certification shall be done at the discretion of the Administrator. Any modification or revocation of the certification shall be done by rule pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553. If the Administrator revokes the certification, the Department shall retrieve, as soon as practicable and to the extent practicable, any waste emplaced in the disposal system.

(2) Any time after the Administrator issues a certification, the Administrator or the Administrator's authorized representative may submit a written request to the Department for information to enable the Administrator to determine whether the certification should be modified, suspended or revoked. Unless otherwise specified by the Administrator or the Administrator's authorized representative, the Department shall submit such information to the Administrator or the Administrator's authorized representative within 30 calendar days of receipt of the request.

(3) Any time after the Administrator issues a certification, the Department shall report any planned or unplanned changes in activities or conditions pertaining to the disposal system that differ significantly from the most recent compliance application.

(i) The Department shall inform the Administrator, in writing, prior to making such a planned change in activity or disposal system condition.

(ii) In the event of an unplanned change in activity or condition, the Department shall immediately cease emplacement of waste in the disposal system if the Department determines that one or more of the following conditions is true:

(A) The containment requirements established pursuant to ยง 191.13 of this chapter have been or are expected to be exceeded;

(B) Releases from already-emplaced waste lead to committed effective doses that are or are expected to be in excess of those established pursuant to ยง 191.15 of this chapter. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B), emissions from operations covered pursuant to part 191, subpart A of this chapter are not included; or

(C) Releases have caused or are expected to cause concentrations of radionuclides or estimated doses due to radionuclides in underground sources of drinking water in the accessible environment to exceed the limits established pursuant to part 191, subpart C of this chapter.

(iii) If the Department determines that a condition described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section has occurred or is expected to occur, the Department shall notify the Administrator, in writing, within 24 hours of the determination. Such notification shall, to the extent practicable, include the following information:

(A) Identification of the location and environmental media of the release or the expected release;

(B) Identification of the type and quantity of waste (in activity in curies of each radionuclide) released or expected to be released;

(C) Time and date of the release or the estimated time of the expected release;

(D) Assessment of the hazard posed by the release or the expected release; and

(E) Additional information requested by the Administrator or the Administrator's authorized representative.

(iv) The Department may resume emplacement of waste in the disposal system upon written notification that the suspension has been lifted by the Administrator.

(v) If the Department discovers a condition or activity that differs significantly from what is indicated in the most recent compliance application, but does not involve conditions or activities listed in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, then the difference shall be reported, in writing, to the Administrator within 10 calendar days of its discovery.

(vi) Following receipt of notification, the Administrator will notify the Secretary in writing whether any condition or activity reported pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) this section:

(A) Does not comply with the terms of the certification; and, if it does not comply,

(B) Whether the compliance certification must be modified, suspended or revoked. The Administrator or the Administrator's authorized representative may request additional information before determining whether modification, suspension or revocation of the compliance certification is required.

(4) Not later than six months after the Administrator issues a certification, and at least annually thereafter, the Department shall report to the Administrator, in writing, any changes in conditions or activities pertaining to the disposal system that were not required to be reported by paragraph (b)(3) of this section and that differ from information contained in the most recent compliance application.
