
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter F - Radiation Protection Programs
#### PART 194 - CRITERIA FOR THE CERTIFICATION AND RE-CERTIFICATION OF THE WASTE ISOLATION PILOT PLANT'S COMPLIANCE WITH THE 40 CFR PART 191 DISPOSAL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Compliance Certification and Re-certification Applications
###### ยง 194.14 Content of compliance certification application.

Any compliance application shall include:

(a) A current description of the natural and engineered features that may affect the performance of the disposal system. The description of the disposal system shall include, at a minimum, the following information:

(1) The location of the disposal system and the controlled area;

(2) A description of the geology, geophysics, hydrogeology, hydrology, and geochemistry of the disposal system and its vicinity and how these conditions are expected to change and interact over the regulatory time frame. Such description shall include, at a minimum:

(i) Existing fluids and fluid hydraulic potential, including brine pockets, in and near the disposal system; and

(ii) Existing higher permeability anhydrite interbeds located at or near the horizon of the waste.

(3) The presence and characteristics of potential pathways for transport of waste from the disposal system to the accessible environment including, but not limited to: Existing boreholes, solution features, breccia pipes, and other potentially permeable features, such as interbeds.

(4) The projected geophysical, hydrogeologic and geochemical conditions of the disposal system due to the presence of waste including, but not limited to, the effects of production of heat or gases from the waste.

(b) A description of the design of the disposal system including:

(1) Information on materials of construction including, but not limited to: Geologic media, structural materials, engineered barriers, general arrangement, and approximate dimensions; and

(2) Computer codes and standards that have been applied to the design and construction of the disposal system.

(c) Results of assessments conducted pursuant to this part.

(d) A description of input parameters associated with assessments conducted pursuant to this part and the basis for selecting those input parameters.

(e) Documentation of measures taken to meet the assurance requirements of this part.

(f) A description of waste acceptance criteria and actions taken to assure adherence to such criteria.

(g) A description of background radiation in air, soil and water in the vicinity of the disposal system and the procedures employed to determine such radiation.

(h) One or more topographic map(s) of the vicinity of the disposal system. The contour interval shall be sufficient to show clearly the pattern of surface water flow in the vicinity of the disposal system. The map(s) shall include standard map notations and symbols, and, in addition, shall show boundaries of the controlled area and the location of any active, inactive, and abandoned injection and withdrawal wells in the controlled area and in the vicinity of the disposal system.

(i) A description of past and current climatologic and meteorologic conditions in the vicinity of the disposal system and how these conditions are expected to change over the regulatory time frame.

(j) The information required elsewhere in this part or any additional information, analyses, tests, or records determined by the Administrator or the Administrator's authorized representative to be necessary for determining compliance with this part.
