
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter F - Radiation Protection Programs
#### PART 194 - CRITERIA FOR THE CERTIFICATION AND RE-CERTIFICATION OF THE WASTE ISOLATION PILOT PLANT'S COMPLIANCE WITH THE 40 CFR PART 191 DISPOSAL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Compliance Certification and Re-certification
###### Containment Requirements
####### ยง 194.34 Results of performance assessments.

(a) The results of performance assessments shall be assembled into "complementary, cumulative distribution functions" (CCDFs) that represent the probability of exceeding various levels of cumulative release caused by all significant processes and events.

(b) Probability distributions for uncertain disposal system parameter values used in performance assessments shall be developed and documented in any compliance application.

(c) Computational techniques, which draw random samples from across the entire range of the probability distributions developed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, shall be used in generating CCDFs and shall be documented in any compliance application.

(d) The number of CCDFs generated shall be large enough such that, at cumulative releases of 1 and 10, the maximum CCDF generated exceeds the 99th percentile of the population of CCDFs with at least a 0.95 probability. Values of cumulative release shall be calculated according to Note 6 of Table 1, appendix A of part 191 of this chapter.

(e) Any compliance application shall display the full range of CCDFs generated.

(f) Any compliance application shall provide information which demonstrates that there is at least a 95 percent level of statistical confidence that the mean of the population of CCDFs meets the containment requirements of ยง 191.13 of this chapter.
