
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter F - Radiation Protection Programs
#### PART 195 - RADON PROFICIENCY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Fees
###### ยง 195.20 Fee payments.
####### Determination of Fees.

(c)(1) Participants listed in the RMP and RCP programs on the effective date of this section will be sent, by EPA, a payment invoice with its fee calculation at least 30 days before the payment is due. Fees will be assessed based on the current information in EPA's proficiency data bases. Participants who intend to pay the invoiced fee amount must send their payment to EPA following the procedures in the invoice. Organizations or individuals who wish to notify EPA of any errors or corrections they wish to make to their listing status must do so by following the instructions on the payment invoice. Corrected payment invoices for both the RMP Program and the RCP Program shall be sent to: Radon Proficiency Programs User Fees, c/o Sanford Cohen and Associates, Inc. (SC&A), 1418 I-85 Parkway, Montgomery, Alabama, 36106. EPA will review the corrections noted on the payment invoice, adjust the payment invoice amount (as appropriate) and issue a new invoice. Participants must pay the amount in the corrected payment invoice within 30 days of the date listed on the corrected invoice.

(2) If the appropriate fee or a revised payment invoice for an individual or organization participating in the RMP or RCP program has not been received by EPA on or before the payment due date, EPA will send, by certified mail, notice that the individual or organization will be delisted from the proficiency program unless he/she pays the fee within 30 days of this second certified notification. If payment still has not been received by EPA after 30 days of the second certified notification, the organization's or individual's listing shall be removed from the proficiency program.

(3) New or initial applicants to the RMP or RCP programs will be assessed a fee at the time of their initial application. EPA will send a payment invoice to the new applicant upon acceptance of the initial application. The applicant will be given at least 30 days from the date on the payment invoice to remit payment. The fee assessed will be prorated quarterly, based on the acceptance date of the application. If the appropriate fee has not been received by EPA by the payment due date, the application will be placed in an inactive file with no further action taken by EPA.
