
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter F - Radiation Protection Programs
#### PART 195 - RADON PROFICIENCY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Fees
###### ยง 195.20 Fee payments.
####### Adjustment of Fees.

(e)(1) EPA shall collect 100 percent of its operating costs associated with its radon proficiency programs by calendar year 1998. As necessary, EPA shall adjust the fees established by this subpart each year over the next four years to collect the following percentages of program costs:

(2) EPA will use a three-step process to adjust the fees annually. First, EPA will estimate the costs of providing each of the proficiency programs for the upcoming year. EPA will account for future additional fixed costs (e.g., updating examinations) and increases/decreases in variable costs due to inflation and other factors. In order to calculate increases/decreases in costs due to inflation, EPA may use one of the three following indices: the Federal General Schedule (GS) pay scale, the Consumer Price Index (CPI), and/or a component of the CPI, such as services. Second, EPA will estimate the number of participants for each program. At a minimum, these participation rates will be based on past and current program participation rates. Third, EPA shall calculate the per capita costs that individuals and organizations should pay to enable it to recover its fixed and variable costs each year for each program. EPA shall also consider potential industry impacts as it adjusts to levels to ultimately achieve full cost recovery over the period of five years.
