
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart AA - Provisions for Implementation of the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards
###### ยง 51.1100 Definitions.
####### Applicable requirements

(o)for an area for anti-backsliding purposes means the following requirements, to the extent such requirements apply to the area pursuant to its classification under CAA section 181(a)(1) for the 1-hour NAAQS or 40 CFR 51.902 for the 1997 ozone NAAQS at the time of revocation of the 1997 ozone NAAQS:

(1) Reasonably available control technology (RACT) under CAA sections 172(c)(1) and 182(b)(2).

(2) Vehicle inspection and maintenance programs (I/M) under CAA sections 182(b)(4) and 182(c)(3).

(3) Major source applicability thresholds for purposes of RACT under CAA sections 172(c)(2), 182(b), 182(c), 182(d), and 182(e).

(4) Reductions to achieve Reasonable Further Progress (RFP) under CAA sections172(c)(2), 182(b)(1)(A), and 182(c)(2)(B).

(5) Clean fuels fleet program under CAA section183(c)(4).

(6) Clean fuels for boilers under CAA section 182(e)(3).

(7) Transportation Control Measures (TCMs) during heavy traffic hours as specified under CAA section 182(e)(4).

(8) Enhanced (ambient) monitoring under CAA section 182(c)(1).

(9) Transportation controls under CAA section 182(c)(5).

(10) Vehicle miles traveled provisions of CAA section 182(d)(1).

(11) NOrequirements under CAA section 182(f).

(12) Attainment demonstration requirements under CAA sections 172(c)(4), 182(b)(1)(A), and 182(c)(2).

(13) Nonattainment contingency measures required under CAA sections 172(c)(9) and 182(c)(9) for failure to attain the 1-hour or 1997 ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date or to make reasonable further progress toward attainment of the 1-hour or 1997 ozone NAAQS.

(14) Nonattainment NSR major source thresholds and offset ratios under CAA sections 172(a)(5) and 182(a)(2).

(15) Penalty fee program requirements for Severe and Extreme Areas under CAA section 185.

(16) Contingency measures associated with areas utilizing CAA section 182(e)(5).

(17) Reasonably available control measures (RACM) requirements under CAA section 172(c)(1).
