
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 201 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT; INTERSTATE RAIL CARRIERS
##### Subpart C - Measurement Criteria
###### ยง 201.27 Procedures for: (1) Determining applicability of the locomotive load cell test stand standard and switcher locomotive standard by noise measurement on a receiving property; (2) measurement of locomotive load cell test stands more than 120 meters (400 feet) on a receiving property.
####### Data.

(b)(1) When there is evidence that at least one of these two types of nearly steady state sound sources is affecting the noise environment, the following measurements must be made. The purpose of these measurements is to determine the A-weighted Lstatistical sound level, which is to be used as described in subparagraph (c) below to determine the applicability of the source standards. Before this determination can be made, the measured Lis to be "validated" by comparing the measured Land Lstatistical sound levels. If the difference between these levels is sufficiently small (4 dB or less), the source(s) being measured is considered to be a nearly steady state source.

(2) Data shall be collected by measuring the instantaneous A-weighted sound level (FAST) at a rate of at least once each 10 seconds for a measurement period of at least 15 minutes and until 100 measurements are obtained. The data may be taken manually by direct reading of the indicator at 10 second intervals (+/-1 second), or by attaching a statistical analyzer, graphic level recorder, or other equivalent device to the sound level meter for a more continuous recording of the instantaneous sound level.

(3) The data shall be analyzed to determine the levels exceeded 99%, 90%, and 10% of the time, i.e., L, L, and L, respectively. The value of Lis considered a valid measure of the A-weighted sound level for the standards in ยง 201.16 only if the difference between Land Lhas a value of 4 dB or less. If a measured value of Lis not valid for this purpose, measurements may be taken over a longer period to attempt to improve the certainty of the measurement and to validate L. If Lis valid and is less than the level in applicable standards for these source types, the sources are in compliance. If the measured value of Lis valid and exceeds the initial 65 dB requirement for any of the source types that appear to be affecting the noise environments, the evaluation according to the following paragraph (c) is required.
