
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 201 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT; INTERSTATE RAIL CARRIERS
##### Subpart C - Measurement Criteria
###### § 201.27 Procedures for: (1) Determining applicability of the locomotive load cell test stand standard and switcher locomotive standard by noise measurement on a receiving property; (2) measurement of locomotive load cell test stands more than 120 meters (400 feet) on a receiving property.
####### Determination of applicability of the standard when L,is validated and is in excess of one or more of the source standards.

(c)The following procedures must be used to determine the compliance of the various source types when Lis validated and in excess of one or more of the applicable standards.

(1) The principal direction of the nearly steady-state sound at the measurement location must be determined, if possible, by listening to the sound and localizing its apparent source(s). If the observer is clearly convinced by this localization process that the sound emanates only from one or both of these two sources, then:

(i) If only stationary locomotive(s), including at least one switcher locomotive, are present, the value of Lis the value of the A-weighted sound level to be used in determining if the 65 dB requirement is exceeded and compliance with the standards in §§ 201.11(c) and 201.12(c) is necessary.

(ii) If only a locomotive load cell test stand and the locomotive being tested are present and operating, the value of Lis the value of the A-weighted sound level to be used in determining applicability of the standard in § 201.16.

(iii) If a locomotive load cell test stand(s) and the locomotive being tested are present and operating with stationary locomotive(s), including at least one switcher locomotive, the value Lminus 3 dB is the value of the A-weighted sound level to be used in determining applicability of the standards in §§ 201.11(c), 201.12(c) and 201.16.

(iv) If a locomotive load cell test stand(s) and the locomotive being tested are present and operating, and a stationary locomotive(s) is present, and if the nearly steady-state sound level is observed to change by 10 dB, coincident with evidence of a change in operation of the locomotive load cell test stand but without apparent change in the location of stationary locomotives, another measurement of Lmust be made in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. If this additional measure of Lis validated and differs from the initial measure of Lby an absolute value of 10 dB or more, then the higher value of Lis the value of the A-weighted sound level to be used in determining applicability of the standard in § 201.16.

(2) In order to accomplish the comparison demonstration of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, when one or more source types is found not to be in compliance with the applicable standard(s), documentation of noise source information shall be necessary. This will include, but not be limited to, the approximate location of all sources of each source type present and the microphone position on a diagram of the particular railroad facility, and the distances between the microphone location and each of the sources must be estimated and reported. Additionally, if other rail or non-rail noise sources are detected, they must be identified and similarly reported.

(3) If it can be demonstrated that the validated Lis less than 5 dB greater than any Lmeasured at the same receiving property location when the source types that were operating during the initial measurement(s) are either turned off or moved, such that they can no longer be detected, the initial value(s) of Lmust not be used for determining applicability to the standards. This demonstration must be made at a time of day comparable to that of the initial measurements and when all other conditions are acoustically similar to those reported in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
