
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 204 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 204.4 Inspection and monitoring.

(a) Any inspection or monitoring activities conducted under this section shall be for the purpose of determining (1) whether test products are being selected and prepared for testing in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, (2) whether test product testing is being conducted in accordance with these regulations, and (3) whether products being produced for distribution into commerce comply with these regulations.

(b) The Director, Noise Enforcement Division, may request that a manufacturer subject to this part admit an EPA Enforcement Officer during operating hours to any of the following:

(1) Any facility or site where any product to be distributed into commerce is manufactured, assembled, or stored;

(2) Any facility or site where any tests conducted pursuant to this part or any procedures or activities connected with such tests are or were performed; and

(3) Any facility or site where any test product is present.

(c)(1) An EPA Enforcement Officer, once admitted to a facility or site, will not be authorized to do more than:

(i) To inspect and monitor test product manufacture and assembly, selection, storage, preconditioning, noise emission testing, and maintenance, and to verify correlation or calibration of test equipment;

(ii) To inspect products prior to their distribution in commerce;

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) To inspect and photograph any part or aspect of any such product and any component used in the assembly thereof that are reasonably related to the purpose of his entry;

(v) To obtain from those in charge of the facility or site such reasonable assistance as he may request to enable him to carry out any proper function listed in this section.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The provisions of this section apply whether the facility or site is owned or controlled by the manufacturer or by one who acts for the manufacturer.

(d) For purposes of this section:

(1) An "EPA Enforcement Officer" is an employee of the EPA Office of Enforcement who displays upon arrival at a facility or site the credentials identifying him as such an employee and a letter signed by the Director, Noise Enforcement Division designating him to make the inspection.

(2) Where test product storage areas or facilities are concerned, "operating hours" shall mean all times during which personnel other than custodial personnel are at work in the vicinity of the area or facility and have access to it.

(3) Where facilities or areas other than those covered by paragraph (d)(2) of this section are concerned, "operating hours" shall mean all times during which product manufacture or assembly is in operation or all times during which product testing or maintenance, production, or compilation of records is taking place, or any other procedure or activity related to selective enforcement audit testing or to product manufacture or assembly is being carried out.

(e) The manufacturer shall admit to a facility or site an EPA Enforcement Officer who presents a warrant authorizing entry. In the absence of such warrant, entry to any facility or site under this section will be only upon the consent of the manufacturer.

(1) It is not a violation of this regulation or the Act for any person to refuse entry without a warrant.

(2) The Administrator or his designee may proceed ex parte to obtain a warrant whether or not the manufacturer has refused entry.
