
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 204 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Portable Air Compressors
###### ยง 204.54 Test procedures.
####### Measurement equipment.

(c)The measurement equipment must be used during noise standard compliance testing and must consist of the following or its equivalent:

(1) A sound level meter and microphone system that conform to the Type I requirements of American National Standard (ANS) S1.4-1971, "Specification for Sound Level Meters," and to the requirements of the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) Publication No. 179, "Precision Sound Level Meters."

(2) A windscreen must be employed with the microphone during all measurements of portable air compressor noise when the wind speed exceeds 11 km/hr. The windscreen shall not affect the A-weighted sound levels from the portable air compressor in excess of +/-0.5 dB.

(3) The entire acoustical instrumentation system including the microphone and cable shall be calibrated before each test series and confirmed afterward. A sound level calibrator accurate to within +/-0.5 dB shall be used. A calibration of the instrumentation shall be performed at least annually using the methodology of sufficient precision and accuracy to determine compliance with ANS S1.4-1971 and IEC 179. This calibration shall consist, at a minimum, of an overall frequency response calibration and an attenuator (gain control) calibration plus a measurement of dynamic range and instrument noise floor.

(4) An anemometer or other device accurate to within +/-10 percent shall be used to measure wind velocity.

(5) An indicator accurate to within +/-2 percent shall be used to measure portable air compressor engine speed.

(6) A gauge accurate to within +/-5 percent shall be used to measure portable compressor air pressure.

(7) A metering device accurate to within +/-10 percent shall be used to measure the portable air compressor compressed air volumetric flow rate.

(8) A barometer for measuring atmospheric pressure accurate to within +/-5 percent.

(9) A thermometer for measuring temperature accurate to within +/-1 degree.
