
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 204 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Portable Air Compressors
###### ยง 204.55-2 Requirements.
####### 7

() Other

(B) Engine manufacturer

(C) Compressor delivery rate (at rated pressure)

(ii) Identifying the configuration within each category which emits the highest sound level in dBA based on best technical judgment, emission test data, or both.

(iii) Testing in accordance with ยง 204.54 selected in accordance with ยง 204.57-2 which must be a compressor of the configuration which is identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section as having the highest sound level (estimated or actual) within the category.

(iv) Compliance of the test compressor with applicable standards when tested in accordance with ยง 204.54.

(2) Where the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are complied with, all those configurations contained within a category are considered represented by the tested compressor.

(3) Where the manufacturer tests a compressor configuration which has not been determined as having the highest sound level of a category, but all other requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are complied with, all those configurations contained within that category which are determined to have sound levels no greater than the tested compressor are considered to be represented by the tested compressor: However, a manufacturer must for purposes of Testing by the Administrator and Selective Enforcement Auditing verify according to the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) and/or (c)(1) of this section any configurations in the subject category which have a higher sound level than the compressor configuration tested.

(d) A manufacturer may elect for purposes of Testing by the Administrator and Selective Enforcement Auditing to use representative testing, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, all or part of his product line.

(e) The manufacturer may, at his option, proceed with any of the following alternatives with respect to any compressor determined not in compliance with applicable standards:

(1) In the case of representative testing, a new test compressor from another configuration must be selected according to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section in order to verify the configurations represented by the non-compliant compressor.

(2) Modify the test compressor and demonstrate by testing that it meets applicable standards. The manufacturer must modify all production compressors of the same configuration in the same manner as the test compressor before distribution into commerce.
