
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 204 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Portable Air Compressors
###### ยง 204.57-1 Test request.
####### Provided,

(2) The manufacturer shall complete noise emission testing on a minimum of five compressors per day, unless otherwise provided for by the Administrator or unless ambient test site conditions only permit the testing of a lesser number:That ambient test site weather conditions for that period are recorded.

(3) The manufacturer will be allowed 24 hours to ship compressors from a batch sample from the assembly plant to the testing facility if the facility is not located at the plant or in close proximity to the plant; Except, that the Administrator may approve more time based upon a request by the manufacturer accompanied by a satisfactory justification.

(f) The Administrator may issue an order to the manufacturer to cease to distribute into commerce compressors of a specified category or configuration being manufactured at a particular facility if:

(1) The manufacturer refuses to comply with the provisions of a test request issued by the Administrator pursuant to this section; or

(2) The manufacturer refuses to comply with any of the requirements of this section.

(g) A cease-to-distribute order shall not be issued under paragraph (f) of this section if such refusal is caused by conditions and circumstances outside the control of the manufacturer which render it impossible to comply with the provisions of a test request or any other requirements of this section. Such conditions and circumstances shall include, but are not limited to, any uncontrollable factors which result in the temporary unavailability of equipment and personnel needed to conduct the required tests, such as equipment breakdown or failure or illness of personnel, but shall not include failure of the manufacturer to adequately plan for and provide the equipment and personnel needed to conduct the tests. The manufacturer will bear the burden of establishing the presence of the conditions and circumstances required by this paragraph.

(h) Any such order shall be issued only after a notice and opportunity for a hearing in accordance with section 554 of Title 5 of the United States Code.
