
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 204 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Portable Air Compressors
###### ยง 204.56 Testing by the Administrator.

(a)(1) The Administrator may require that any compressor tested or scheduled to be tested pursuant to these regulations or any other untested compressors be submitted to him, at such place and time as he may designate, for the purpose of conducting tests in accordance with the test procedures described in ยง 204.54 to determine whether such compressors conform to applicable regulations.

(2) The Administrator may specify that he will conduct such testing at the manufacturer's facility, in which case instrumentation and equipment of the type required by these regulations shall be made available by the manufacturer for test operations. The Administrator may conduct such tests with his own equipment, which shall be equal to or exceed the performance specifications of the instrumentation or equipment specified by the Administrator in these regulations.

(b)(1) If, based on tests conducted by the Administrator or other relevant information, the Administrator determines that the test facility does not meet the requirements of ยง 204.54-1 (a) and (b) he will notify the manufacturer in writing of his determination and the reasons therefor.

(2) The manufacturer may at any time within 15 days after receipt of a notice issued under paragraph (b)(1) of this section request a hearing conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554 on the issue of whether his test facility was in conformance. Such notice will not take effect until 15 days after receipt by the manufacturer, or if a hearing is requested under this paragraph, until adjudication by the hearing examiner.

(3) After any notification issued under paragraph (b)(1) of this section has taken effect, no data thereafter derived from such test facility will be acceptable for purposes of this part.

(4) The manufacturer may request in writing that the Administrator reconsider this determination under paragraph (b)(1) of this section based on data or information which indicates that changes have been made to the test facility and such changes have resolved the reasons for disqualification.

(5) The Administrator will notify the manufacturer of his determination and an explanation of the reasons underlying it with regard to the requalification of the test facility within 10 working days after receipt of the manufacturer's request for reconsideration pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
