
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 204 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Portable Air Compressors
###### ยง 204.57-2 Test compressor sample selection.
####### Provided,

(a) Compressors comprising the batch sample which are required to be tested pursuant to a test request in accordance with this subpart will be randomly selected from a batch of compressors of the category or configuration specified in the test request. The random selection will be achieved by sequentially numbering all of the compressors in the batch and then using a table of random numbers to select the number of compressors, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, based on the batch size designated by the Administrator in the test request. An alternative selection plan may be used by a manufacturer:That such a plan is approved by the Administrator.

(b) The Acceptable Quality Level is 10 percent. The appropriate sampling plans associated with the designated AQL are contained in Appendix I, Table II.

(c) The appropriate batch sample size will be determined by reference to Appendix I, Tables I and II. A code letter is obtained from Table I based on the batch size designated by the Administrator in a test request. The batch sample size will be equal to the maximum cumulative sample size as listed in Table II for the appropriate code letter obtained from Table I plus an additional ten percent rounded off to the next highest number.

(d) Individual compressors comprising the test sample will be randomly selected from the batch sample using the same random selection plan as in paragraph (a) of this section. Test sample size will be determined by entering Table II.

(e) The test compressor of the category or configuration selected for testing shall have been assembled by the manufacturer for distribution in commerce using the manufacturers normal production process.

(f) Unless otherwise indicated in the test request, the manufacturer will select the batch sample from the production batch next scheduled after receipt of the test request of the category or configuration specified in the test request.

(g) Unless otherwise indicated in the test request, the manufacturer shall select the compressors designated in the test request for testing.

(h) At their discretion, EPA Enforcement Officers, rather than the manufacturer, may select the compressors designated in the test request.

(i) The manufacturer will keep on hand all compressors in the batch sample until such time as the batch is accepted or rejected in accordance with ยง 204.57-6; Except, that compressors actually tested and found to be in conformance with these regulations need not be kept.
