
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 204 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Portable Air Compressors
###### ยง 204.57-8 Continued testing.

(a) If a batch sequence is rejected in accordance with paragraph (b) of ยง 204.57-7, the Administrator may require that any or all compressors of that category, configuration or subgroup thereof produced at that plant be tested before distribution in commerce.

(b) The Administrator will notify the manufacturer in writing of his intent to require such continued testing of compressors pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The manufacturer may request a hearing on the issues of whether the selective enforcement audit was conducted properly; whether the criteria for batch sequence rejection in ยง 204.57-7 have been met; and, the appropriateness or scope of a continued testing order. In the event that a hearing is requested, the hearing shall begin no later than 15 days after the date on which the Administrator received the hearing request. Neither the request for a hearing nor the fact that a hearing is in progress shall affect the responsibility of the manufacturer to commence and continue testing required by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) Any tested compressor which demonstrates conformance with the applicable standards may be distributed into commerce.

(e) Any knowing distribution into commerce of a compressor which does not comply with the applicable standards is a prohibited act.
