
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 204 - NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Portable Air Compressors
###### ยง 204.58-3 Instructions for maintenance, use, and repair.

(a)(1) The manufacturer shall provide to the ultimate purchaser of each portable air compressor covered by this part written instructions for the proper maintenance, use, and repair of the compressor in order to provide reasonable assurance of the elimination or minimization of noise emission degradation throughout the life of the compressor.

(2) The purpose of the instructions is to inform purchasers and mechanics of those acts necessary to reasonably assure that degradation of noise emission levels is eliminated or minimized during the life of the compressor. Manufacturers should prepare the instructions with this purpose in mind. The instructions should be clear and, to the extent practicable, written in non-technical language.

(3) The instructions must not be used to secure an unfair competitive advantage. They should not restrict replacement equipment to original equipment or service to dealer service. Manufacturers who so restrict replacement equipment must make public any performance specifications on such equipment.

(b) For the purpose of encouraging proper maintenance, the manufacturer shall provide a record or log book which shall contain a performance schedule for all required noise emission control maintenance. Space shall be provided in this record book so that the purchaser can note what maintenance was done, by whom, where and when.
