
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart B - Medium and Heavy Trucks
###### ยง 205.54-1 Low speed sound emission test procedures.
####### Instrumentation.

(a)The following instrumentation shall be used, where applicable.

(1) A sound level meter which meets the Type 1 requirements of ANSI S1.4-1971, Specification for Sound Level Meters, or a sound level meter may be used with a magnetic tape recorder and/or a graphic level recorder or indicating meter, providing the system meets the requirements of ยง 205.54-2.

(2) A sound level calibrator. The calibrator shall produce a sound pressure level, at the microphone diaphragm, that is known to within an accuracy of +/-0.5 dB. The calibrator shall be checked annually to verify that its output has not changed.

(3) An engine-speed tachometer which is accurate within +/-2 percent of meter reading.

(4) An anemometer or other device for measurement of ambient wind speed accurate within +/-10 percent.

(5) A thermometer for measurement of ambient temperature accurate within +/-1 C.

(6) A barometer for measurement of ambient pressure accurate within +/-1 percent.

(b)(1) The test site shall be such that the truck radiates sound into a free field over a reflecting plane. This condition may be considered fulfilled if the test site consists of an open space free of large reflecting surfaces, such as parked vehicles, signboards, buildings or hillsides, located within 100 feet (30.4 meters) of either the vehicle path or the microphone.

(2) The microphone shall be located 50 feet +/-4 in. (15.2 +/-0.1 meter) from the centerline of truck travel and 4 feet +/-4 in. (1.2 +/-0.1 meters) above the ground plane. The microphone point is defined as the point of intersection of the vehicle path and the normal to the vehicle path drawn from the microphone. The microphone shall be oriented in a fixed position to minimize the deviation from the flattest system response over the frequency range 100 Hz to 10 kHz for a vehicle traversing from the acceleration point through the end zone.

(3) An acceleration point shall be established on the vehicle path 50 feet (15 m) before the microphone point.

(4) An end point shall be established on the vehicle path 100 feet (30 m) from the acceleration point and 50 feet (15 m) from the microphone point.

(5) The end zone is the last 40 feet (12 m) of vehicle path prior to the end point.

(6) The measurement area shall be the triangular paved (concrete or sealed asphalt) area formed by the acceleration point, the end point, and the microphone location.

(7) The reference point on the vehicle, to indicate when the vehicle is at any of the points on the vehicle path, shall be the front of the vehicle except as follows:

(i) If the horizontal distance from the front of the vehicle to the exhaust outlet is more than 200 inches (5.1 meters), tests shall be run using both the front and rear of the vehicle as reference points.

(ii) If the engine is located rearward to the center of the chassis, the rear of the vehicle shall be used as the reference point.

(8) The plane containing the vehicle path and the microphone location (plane ABCDE in Figure 1) shall be flat within +/-2 inches (.05 meters).

(9) Measurements shall not be made when the road surface is wet, covered with snow, or during precipitation.

(10) Bystanders have an appreciable influence on sound level meter readings when they are in the vicinity of the vehicle or microphone; therefore not more than one person, other than the observer reading the meter, shall be within 50 feet (15.2 meters) of the vehicle path or instrument and the person shall be directly behind the observer reading the meter, on a line through the microphone and observer. To minimize the effect of the observer and the container of the sound level meter electronics on the measurements, cable should be used between the microphone and the sound level meter. No observer shall be located within 1 m in any direction of the microphone location.

(11) The maximum A-weighted fast response sound level observed at the test site immediately before and after the test shall be at least 10 dB below the regulated level.

(12) The road surface within the test site upon which the vehicle travels, and, at a minimum, the measurements area (BCD in figure 205.1) shall be smooth concrete or smooth sealed asphalt, free of extraneous material such as gravel.

(13) Vehicles with diesel engines shall be tested using Number 1D or Number 2D diesel fuel possessing a cetane rating from 42 to 50 inclusive.

(14) Vehicles with gasoline engines shall use the grade of gasoline recommended by the manufacturer for use by the purchaser.

(15) Vehicles equipped with thermo- statically controlled radiator fans may be tested with the fan not operating.
