
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart B - Medium and Heavy Trucks
###### ยง 205.54-1 Low speed sound emission test procedures.
####### General requirements.

(d)(1) Measurements shall be made only when wind velocity is below 12 mph (19 km/hr).

(2) Proper usage of all test instrumentation is essential to obtain valid measurements. Operating manuals or other literature furnished by the instrument manufacturer shall be referred to for both recommended operation of the instrument and precautions to be observed. Specific items to be adequately considered are:

(i) The effects of ambient weather conditions on the performance of the instruments (for example, temperature, humidity, and barometric pressure).

(ii) Proper signal levels, terminating impedances, and cable lengths on multi-instrument measurement systems.

(iii) Proper acoustical calibration procedure to include the influence of extension cables, etc. Field calibration shall be made immediately before and after each test sequence. Internal calibration means is acceptable for field use, provided that external calibration is accomplished immediately before or after field use.

(3)(i) A complete calibration of the instrumentation and external acoustical calibrator over the entire frequency range of interest shall be performed at least annually and as frequently as necessary during the yearly period to insure compliance with the standards cited in American National Standard S1.4-1971 "Specifications for Sound Level Meters" for a Type 1 instrument over the frequency range 50 Hz-10,000 Hz.

(ii) If calibration devices are utilized which are not independent of ambient pressure (e.g., a piston-phone) corrections must be made for barometric or altimetric changes according to the recommendation of the instrument manufacturer.

(4) The truck shall be brought to a temperature within its normal operating temperature range prior to commencement of testing. During testing appropriate caution shall be taken to maintain the engine temperatures within such normal operating range.
