
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart B - Medium and Heavy Trucks
###### ยง 205.54-2 Sound data acquisition system.
####### Frequency response qualification procedure.

(2)(i) Typical noise measurement and analysis configurations are shown in Figures 205.2 through 205.4. The qualification procedure described herein duplicates these configurations, but with the microphone replaced by an electronic sinewave oscillator. Caution should be exercised when connecting an oscillator to the input of a sound level meter to ensure, perhaps by using a resistive voltage divider network, that the input is not overloaded (see ยง 205.54-2(a)(2)(ii)).

(ii) Calibrate the oscillator to be used by measuring its output relative to the voltage which is equivalent to 86 dB sound level at each of the 27 frequencies listed in Table 205.1 using an electronic voltmeter of known calibration. Record the result in voltage level in dB re voltage corresponding to 86 dB sound level at 1000 Hz. This will describe the frequency response characteristics of the oscillator.

(iii) If a graphic level recorder is to be used, connect it to the oscillator output. If the oscillator and graphic level recorder can be synchronized, slowly sweep the frequency over the range of 31.5 to 12,500 Hz, recording the oscillator output. If they cannot be synchronized, record oscillator output for signals at the 27 frequencies given in Table 205.1. The differences between the combined response thus obtained and the oscillator response obtained previously will describe the frequency response of the graphic level recorder.

(iv) If visual observation of an indicating meter is to be used for obtaining data, the oscillator should be connected to the indicating meter input (such as the microphone input of a sound level meter) and the meter reading observed for a fixed oscillator output voltage setting for signals at the 27 frequencies given in Table 205.1.

(v) To check a tape recorder, connect the instruments as shown in Figure 205.4. Using a 1000 Hz tone, adjust the oscillator output level to obtain a reading 15 dB below maximum record level. If the synchronized oscillator/graphic level recorder system is to be used for analysis, record an oscillator sweep over the range of 31.5 to 12,500 Hz, using an appropriate tape recorder input attenuator setting. Alternatively, tape-record frequency tones at the 27 frequencies given in Table 205.1. Replay the tape recordings using the setup shown in Figure 205.3. Record the data on a graphic level recorder or through visual observation of the indicating meter. Subtract the oscillator frequency response in paragraph (b)(2) of this section from the response obtained through the record-playback sequence to obtain the record/reproduce frequency response of the system except for the microphone.

(vi) To obtain the overall system frequency response, add the manufacturer's microphone calibration data to the response just obtained. This may be the frequency response for the specific microphone to be used, including calibration tolerances. Alternatively, use the manufacturer's "typical" microphone response plus and minus the maximum deviation expected from "typical" including calibration tolerances. Use the microphone response curve which corresponds to the manner in which it is used in the field. It may be required to add a correction to the response curves provided to obtain field response; refer to the manufacturer's manual.

(vii) Adjustment or repair of equipment may be required to obtain response within the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. After any adjustments, the system shall be requalified according to paragraph (b) of this section.
