
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart B - Medium and Heavy Trucks
###### § 205.54-2 Sound data acquisition system.
####### General comments.

(3)(i) Calibrate tape recorders using the brand and type of magnetic tape used for actual data acquisition. Differences in tape can cause an appreciable variation in the recorder/reproduce frequency response characteristics of tape recorder.

(ii) It shall be ensured that the instrumentation used will perform within specifications and applicable tolerances over the temperature, humidity, and other environmental variation ranges which may be encountered in vehicle noise measurement works.

(iii) Qualification tests shall be performed using equipment (including cables) and recording and playback techniques identical with those used while recording vehicle noise. For example, if weighted sound level data are normally recorded use similar weighting and apply the tolerances of Table 205.1 to the weighting curve for comparison with record-playback curves. Precautions should also be taken to ensure that source and load impedances are appropriate to the device being tested. Other data acquisition systems may use any combination of microphones, sound level meters, amplifiers, tape recorders, graphic level recorders, or indicating meters. The same approach to qualifying such a system shall be taken as described in this document for the systems depicted in Figures 205.2, 205.3 and 205.4.

(b) Systems other than those specified in §§ 205.54-1(a) and 205.54-2(a) may be used for establishing compliance with this regulation. In each case the system must yield sound levels which are equivalent to those produced by a sound level meter Type 1 ANSI S1.4-1971. The manufacturer bears the burden of demonstrating such equivalence.
