
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart B - Medium and Heavy Trucks
###### ยง 205.57-1 Test request.

(a) The Administrator will request all testing under ยง 205.57 by means of a test request addressed to the manufacturer.

(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section, the Administrator will not issue to a manufacturer during any model year more test requests than a number determined by dividing the total number of vehicles subject to this regulation which the manufacturer projects he will produce during that model year by 25,000 and rounding to the next higher whole number: Except, that the Administrator may issue one additional test request beyond the annual limit to any manufacturer for each time a batch sequence for any category, configuration or subgroup thereof of such manufacturer's production is rejected in accordance with ยง 205.57-7.

(2) Any test request issued against a category, configuration or subgroup thereof which the Administrator has reason to believe does not meet the standards specified in ยง 205.52 will not be counted against the annual limit on test requests described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Any such request shall include a statement of the Administrator's reason for such belief.

(3) Any test request under which testing is not completed will not be counted against the annual limit on test requests described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) The test request will be signed by the Assistant Administrator for Enforcement or his designee. The test request will be delivered by an EPA Enforcement Officer to the plant manager or other responsible official as designated by the manufacturer.

(c) The test request will specify the vehicle category, configuration or subgroup thereof selected for testing, the batch from which sampling is to begin, the batch size, the manufacturer's plant or storage facility from which the vehicles must be selected, the time at which a vehicle must be selected. The test request will also provide for situations in which the selected configuration or category is unavailable for testing. The test request may include an alternative category or configuration selected for testing in the event that vehicles of the first specified category or configuration are not available for testing because the vehicles are not being manufactured at the specified plant and/or are not being manufactured during the specified time or not being stored at the specified plant or storage facility.

(d) Any manufacturer shall, upon receipt of the test request, select and test a batch sample of vehicles from two consecutively produced batches of the vehicle category or configurations specified in the test request in accordance with these regulations and the conditions specified in the test request.
