
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart B - Medium and Heavy Trucks
###### ยง 205.57-2 Test vehicle sample selection.
####### Provided,

(a) Vehicles comprising the batch sample which are required to be tested pursuant to a test request in accordance with this subpart will be selected in the manner specified in the test request from a batch of vehicles of the category or configuration specified in the test request. If the test request specifies that the vehicles comprising the batch sample must be selected randomly, the random selection will be achieved by sequentially numbering all of the vehicles in the batch and then using a table of random numbers to select the number of vehicles as specified in paragraph (c) of this section based on the batch size designated by the Administrator in the test request. An alternative random selection plan may be used by a manufacturer:That such a plan is approved by the Administrator. If the test request does not specify that test vehicles must be randomly selected, the manufacturer shall select test vehicles consecutively.

(1) Should a situation arise in which the configuration to be tested consists of only vehicles with automatic transmissions, they shall be tested in accordance with ยง 205.54-1(c)(2).

(2) If the configuration to be tested consists of both automatic transmission and standard transmission vehicles, the test vehicle shall be a standard transmission vehicle unless the manufacturer has reason to believe that the automatic transmission vehicle emits a greater sound level.

(b) The Acceptable Quality Level is 10 percent. The appropriate sampling plans associated with the designated AQL are contained in Appendix I, Table II.

(c) The appropriate batch sample size will be determined by reference to Appendix I, Table I and II. A code letter is obtained from Table I based on the batch size designated by the Administrator in a test request. The batch sample size will be obtained from Table II. The batch sample size will be equal to the maximum cumulative sample size for the appropriate code letter obtained from Table I plus an additional 10 percent rounded off to the next highest number.

(d) If the test request specifies that vehicles comprising the batch sample must be selected randomly, individual vehicles comprising the test sample will be randomly selected from the batch sample using the same random selection plan as in paragraph (a) of this section. Test sample size will be determined by entering Table II.

(e) The test vehicle of the category, configuration or subgroup thereof selected for testing shall have been assembled by the manufacturer for distribution in commerce using the manufacturer's normal production process in accordance with ยง 205.55-5(a).

(f) Unless otherwise indicated in the test request, the manufacturer will select the batch sample from the production batch, next scheduled after receipt of the test request, of the category or configuration specified in the test request.

(g) Unless otherwise indicated in the test request, the manufacturer shall select the vehicles designated in the test request for testing.

(h) At their discretion, EPA Enforcement Officers, rather than the manufacturer, may select the vehicles designated in the test request.

(i) The manufacturer will keep on hand all vehicles in the batch sample until such time as the batch is accepted or rejected in accordance with ยง 205.57-6: Except, that vehicles actually tested and found to be in conformance with these regulations need not be kept.
