
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart B - Medium and Heavy Trucks
###### § 205.57-5 Reporting of the test results.

(a) Within 5 working days after completion of testing of all vehicles in a batch sample the manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a final report which will include the information required by the test request in the format stipulated in the test request in addition to the following:

(1) The name, location, and description of the manufacturer's emission test facilities which meet the specifications of § 205.54 and were utilized to conduct testing reported pursuant to this section: Except, that a test facility that has been described in a previous submission under this subpart need not again be described but must be identified as such.

(2) A description of the random vehicle selection method used, referencing any tables of random numbers that were used, name of the person in charge of the random number selection, if the vehicle test request specifies a random vehicle selection.

(3) The following information for each noise emission test conducted,

(i) The completed data sheet required by § 205.54 for all noise emission tests including: For each invalid test, the reason for invalidation.

(ii) A complete description of any modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, and/or testing which could affect the noise emissions of the vehicle and which was performed on the test vehicle but will not be performed on all other production vehicles.

(iii) The reason for the replacement where a replacement vehicle was authorized by the Administrator, and, if any, the test results for the replaced vehicles.

(4) A complete description of the sound data acquisition system if other than those specified in §§ 205.54-1(a) and 205.54-2(a).

(5) The following statement and endorsement:

(b) All information required to be forwarded to the Administrator pursuant to this section shall be addressed to Director, Noise Enforcement Division (EN-387), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460.
