
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart D - Motorcycles
###### ยง 205.160-2 Test sample selection and preparation.
####### i.e.

(2) In the event of a vehicle malfunction (, failure to start, etc.) the manufacturer may perform the maintenance that is necessary to enable the vehicle to operate in a normal manner. This maintenance must be documented and reported in the SEA report.

(3) No quality control, quality assurance testing, assembly or selection procedures may be used on the test vehicle or any portion of the test vehicle including parts and subassemblies, unless such quality control, quality assurance testing, assembly or selection procedures are used normally during the production and assembly of all other vehicles of this configuration which will be distributed in commerce, are required or permitted under this subpart or are approved in advance by the Administrator.

(4) If a vehicle is unable to complete the noise tests, the manufacturer may replace the vehicle. Any replacement vehicle must be a production vehicle of the same configuration as the replaced vehicle or a noisier configuration and will be subject to all the provisions of these regulations. Any replacement must be reported in the SEA report.

(b) The Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) is 10 percent. The appropriate sampling plans associated with the designated AQL are contained in Appendix II or the test request.

(c) The vehicles of the category, configuration or configuration subgroup selected for testing must be assembled by the manufacturer for distribution in commerce using the manufacturer's normal production process.

(d) Unless otherwise indicated in the test request, the manufacturer must initiate testing with the vehicles of the category, configuration or configuration subgroup specified in the test request which are next scheduled for production after receipt of the test request.

(e) The manufacturer must keep on hand all products in the test sample until the sample is accepted or rejected in accordance with ยง 205.160-6; except that vehicles actually tested and found to be in conformance with this regulation need not be kept.
