
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart D - Motorcycles
###### ยง 205.160-1 Test request.

(a) The Administrator will request all testing under ยง 205.160 by means of a test request addressed to the manufacturer.

(b) The test request will be signed by the Assistant Administrator for Enforcement or his designee. The test request will be delivered to the plant manager or other responsible official as designated by the manufacturer.

(c) The test request will specify the vehicle category, configuration or configuration subgroup selected for testing, the manufacturer's plant or storage facility from which the vehicles must be selected, and the time at which the vehicles must be selected. The test request will also provide for situations in which the selected category, configuration, or configuration subgroup is unavailable for testing. The test request may include an alternative category, configuration, or configuration subgroup designated for testing in the event that vehicles of the first specified category, configuration, or configuration subgroup are not available for testing because the vehicles are not being manufactured at the specified plant, are not being manufactured during the specified time, or are not being stored at the specified plant or storage facility.

(d)(1) If the manufacturer projects a yearly production of fewer than 50 vehicles of the specified category, configuration or configuration subgroup to be tested, then within five (5) days of receipt of the request, the manufacturer must notify the Administrator of such low volume production. The Administrator will then provide a revised test request specifying a testing plan which imposes no greater risk of failure (5%) at the acceptable quality level (10%) than the plan in Appendix II. Upon receipt of the revised test request, the manufacturer must select and test a sample of vehicles from the category, configuration or configuration subgroup specified in the test request in accordance with this subpart and the conditions specified in the test request.

(2) If the manufacturer produces 50 or more vehicles of the specified category, configuration or configuration subgroup per year, then upon receipt of the test request, the manufacturer must select and test a sample of vehicles from the category, configuration or configuration subgroup specified in the test request in accordance with this subpart and the conditions specified in the test request.

(e)(1) Any testing conducted by the manufacturer under a test request must be initiated within the time period specified in the test request; except that initiation may be delayed for increments of 24 hours or one business day where ambient test site weather conditions, or other conditions beyond the control of the manufacturer, in that 24-hour period, do not permit testing. The manufacturer must record the conditions for this period.

(2) The manufacturer must complete noise emission testing on a minimum of ten vehicles per day unless otherwise provided by the Administrator or unless ambient test site conditions permit only the testing of a lesser number in which case the ambient test site weather conditions for that period must be recorded.

(3) The manufacturer is allowed 24 hours to ship vehicles from a sample from the assembly plant to the testing facility if the facility is not located at the plant or in close proximity to the plant. The Administrator may approve more time based upon a request by the manufacturer accompanied by a satisfactory justification.

(f) The Administrator may issue an order to the manufacturer to cease distribution in commerce of vehicles of a specified category, configuration, or configuration subgroup being manufactured at a particular facility, if:

(1) The manufacturer refuses to comply with the provisions of a test request issued by the Administrator under this section; or

(2) The manufacturer refuses to comply with any of the requirements of this section.

(g) A cease distribution order will not be issued under paragraph (f) of this section if the manufacturer's refusal is caused by conditions and circumstances outside his control which render compliance with the provisions of a test request or with any other requirements of this section impossible. Conditions and circumstances outside the control of the manufacturer include, but are not limited to, the temporary unavailability of equipment and personnel needed to conduct the required tests caused by uncontrollable factors, such as equipment breakdown or failure or illness of personnel. Failure of the manufacturer to adequately plan for and provide the equipment and personnel needed to conduct the tests do not constitute uncontrollable factors. The manufacturer must bear the burden of establishing the presence of the conditions and circumstances required by this paragraph.

(h) Any order to cease distribution will be issued only after a notice and opportunity for a hearing in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554.
