
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart D - Motorcycles
###### ยง 205.158 Labeling requirements.

(a)(1) The manufacturer of any vehicle subject to this subpart must, at the time of manufacture, affix a label, of the type specified in paragraphs (a)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, to all such vehicles to be distributed in commerce.

(2) The label must be plastic or metal and be welded, riveted, or otherwise permanently attached in a readily visible position.

(3) The label must be affixed by the vehicle manufacturer to the vehicle in such a manner that the label cannot be removed without destroying or defacing it, and must not be affixed to any piece of equipment that is easily detached from such vehicle.

(4) The label must be lettered in the English language in legible block letters and numerals, which must be of a color that contrasts with the background of the label.

(5) The label must contain the following information:

(i) The label heading: Motorcycle Noise Emission Control Information;

(ii) The statement:

(6) The model specific code is limited to ten spaces which includes three spaces for the manufacturer's abbreviation (see paragraph (a)(7) of this section), three spaces for the class identification, and four spaces for the advertised engine displacement respectively.

(7) All motorcycle manufacturers shall use the following abbreviations in their model specific code.

(8) Moped manufacturers only shall use the following abbreviations in their model specific code.

(9) If a new motorcycle manufacturer begins production of vehicles subject to this regulation, the Administrator will assign him a 3-letter manufacturer abbreviation as soon as reasonably practical after his existence is known to the Agency.

(b) Any vehicle manufactured in the United States solely for use outside the United States must be clearly labeled in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (a) (2), (3), and (4) of this section with the statement; "For Export Only".

(c) Any competition motorcycle as defined in ยง 205.151(a)(3), shall be labeled in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3) and (4) of this section with the statement:

(d) It will be permissible for manufacturers to meet the requirements of this section by consolidating these labeling requirements with other government labeling requirements in one or more labels, provided the provisions of paragraphs (a) (2), (3) and (4) of this section are met.
