
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart D - Motorcycles
###### ยง 205.157-2 Compliance with standards.
####### 1,2,i.e.

(C) Engine configuration: () Number of cylinders; and () cylinder arrangement (, in line, opposed, etc.)

(ii) Identifying the configuration within each category which emits the highest A-weighted sound level (in dB).

(iii) Testing in accordance with ยง 205.160-4 of a vehicle selected in accordance with ยง 205.160-2 which much be a vehicle of the configuration which is identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section as having the highest sound pressure level (estimated or actual) within the category.

(iv) Demonstrating compliance of that vehicle with the applicable standard when tested in accordance with the test procedure specified in Appendix I.

(2) Where the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are complied with, all those configurations contained within a category are considered represented by the tested vehicle.

(3) Where the manufacturer tests a vehicle configuration which has not been determined as having the highest sound pressure level of a category, but all other requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are complied with, all those configurations contained within that category which are determined to have sound pressure levels not greater than the tested vehicle are considered to be represented by the tested vehicle; however, a manufacturer must for purposes of Testing by the Administrator and Selective Enforcement Auditing verify according to the requirements of (b)(1) and/or (c)(1) of this section any configurations in the subject category which have a higher sound pressure level than the vehicle configuration tested.

(d) A manufacturer may elect for purposes of Testing by the Administrator and Selective Enforcement Auditing to use representative testing pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section for all or part of his product line.

(e) The manufacturer has the following alternatives if any test vehicle is determined to not be in compliance with applicable standards:

(1) In the case of representative testing, a new test vehicle from another configuration must be selected according to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, in order to verify the configurations represented by the non-compliant vehicle.

(2) Modify the test vehicle and demonstrate by testing that it meets applicable standards. The manufacturer must modify all production vehicles of the same configuration in the same manner as the test vehicle before distribution into commerce.
