
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart D - Motorcycles
###### ยง 205.163 Recall of noncomplying motorcycles; relabeling of mislabeled motorcycles.

(a) Pursuant to section 11(d)(1) of the Act, the Administrator may issue an order to the manufacturer to recall, repair, modify, or relabel any vehicles distributed in commerce which are not in compliance with this subpart.

(b) A recall order issued under this section shall be based upon a determination by the Administrator that vehicles of a specified category, configuration, or class which do not conform to the regulations or are improperly labeled have been distributed in commerce. This determination may be based on: (1) A technical analysis of the noise emission characteristics of the category, configuration, or class in question; or (2) any other relevant information, including test data.

(c) For the purpose of this section, noise emissions are to be measured by the appropriate test procedure prescribed in appendix I prior to sale or any other test which has been demonstrated to correlate with the prescribed test procedure in accordance with ยง 205.154.

(d) Any order to recall shall be issued only after notice and an opportunity for a hearing.

(e) All cost, including labor and parts, associated with the recall and repair or modification of noncomplying vehicles and relabeling of mislabeled vehicles under this section shall be borne by the manufacturer.

(f) This section shall not limit the discretion of the Administrator to take any other actions which are authorized by the Act.
