
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart D - Motorcycles
###### ยง 205.160-6 Passing or failing under SEA.

(a) A failing vehicle is one whose measured noise level is in excess of the applicable noise emission standard in ยง 205.152.

(b) The number of failing vehicles in a sample determines whether the sample passes or fails (See applicable tables in Appendix II). If the number of failing vehicles is greater than or equal to the number of Column B, the sample fails. If the number of failing vehicles is less than or equal to the number in Column A, the sample passes.

(c) Pass or failure of an SEA takes place when a decision that a vehicle is a passing or failing unit is made on the last vehicle required to make a decision under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) If the manufacturer passes the SEA, he will not be required to perform any additional testing on subsequent vehicles to satisfy the test request.

(e) The Administrator may terminate testing earlier than required in paragraph (b) of this section, based on a request by the manufacturer, accompanied by voluntarily ceasing distribution in commerce of vehicles from the category, configuration or configuration subgroup in question, manufactured at the plant which produced the products being tested. Before reinitiating distribution in commerce of that vehicle category, configuration or configuration subgroup from that plant, the manufacturer must take the action described in ยง 205.160-8(a)(1) and (2).
