
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart D - Motorcycles
###### ยง 205.162-3 Instructions for maintenance, use, and repair.

(a)(1) The manufacturer must provide to the purchaser of each vehicle covered by this subpart written instructions for the proper maintenance, use, and repair of the vehicle in order to provide reasonable assurance of the elimination or minimization of noise emission degradation throughout the life of the vehicle.

(2) The purpose of the instructions is to inform purchasers and mechanics of the acts necessary to reasonably assure that degradation of noise emission level is eliminated or minimized during the life of the vehicle. Manufacturers shall prepare the instructions with this purpose in mind. The instructions shall be clear and, to the extent practicable, written in non-technical language.

(3) The instructions must not be used to secure an unfair competitive advantage. They shall not restrict replacement equipment to original equipment or restrict service to dealer service unless such manufacturer makes public the performance specifications on such equipment.

(b) For the purpose of encouraging proper maintenance, the manufacturer must provide a record or log book which shall contain a schedule for the performance of all required noise emission control maintenance. Space must be provided in this record book so that the purchaser can note what maintenance was done, by whom, where, and when.
