
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart E - Motorcycle Exhaust Systems
###### ยง 205.171-8 Passing or failing under SEA.

(a) A failing exhaust system is one which, when installed on any motorcycle which is in compliance with the requirements of subpart D and for which it is designed and marketed, together with such motorcycle produces a measured noise level in excess of the applicable noise emission standard in ยง 205.166.

(b) The number of failing vehicles in a sample determines whether the sample passes or fails (See applicable tables in appendix II). If the number of failing vehicles is greater than or equal to the number in Column B, the sample fails. If the number of failing vehicles is less than or equal to the number in Column A, the sample passes.

(c) Pass or failure of a SEA takes place when a decision that an exhaust system is a passing or failing unit is made on the last exhaust system required to make a decision under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) If the manufacturer passes the SEA, he will not be required to perform any additional testing on subsequent exhaust systems to satisfy the test request.

(e) The Administrator may terminate testing earlier than required in paragraph (b) of this section, based on a request by the manufacturer, accompanied by voluntarily ceasing distribution in commerce of exhaust systems from the category in question, manufactured at the plant which produced the exhaust systems being tested. Before reinitiating distribution in commerce of that exhaust system category from that plant, the manufacturer must take the action described in ยง 205.171-10(a)(1) and (2).
