
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart E - Motorcycle Exhaust Systems
###### ยง 205.171-7 Reporting of the test results.

(a)(1) The manufacturer must submit a copy of the test report for all testing conducted pursuant to ยง 205.171 at the conclusion of each 24-hour period during which testing is done.

(2) For each test conducted, the manufacturer must provide the following information:

(i) Category identification where applicable;

(ii) Year, manufacturing date, serial number and model of exhaust system;

(iii) Year, make serial number, and model of test motorcycle; and

(iv) Test results by serial numbers.

(b) In the case where an EPA Enforcement Officer is present during testing required by this subpart, the written reports requested in paragraph (a) of this section may be given directly to the Enforcement Officer.

(c) Within 5 days after completion of an SEA, the manufacturer must submit to the Administrator a final report which will include the following:

(1) The name, location, and description of the manufacturer's noise emission test facilities which meet the specifications of appendix I and where utilized to conduct testing reported under this section, except, that a test facility that has been described in a previous submission under this subpart need not again be described, but must be identified as that facility.

(2) The following information for each noise emission test conducted:

(i) The individual records required by ยง 205.172 (a)(2) for all noise emission tests including for each invalid test, the reason for invalidation;

(ii) A complete description of any modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, or testing, which could affect the noise emissions of the product and which was performed on the test exhaust system but not performed on all other production exhaust systems;

(iii) The test results for any replacement exhaust system and the reason for its replacement.

(3) A complete description of the sound data acquisition system if other than that specified in appendix I.

(4) The following statement and endorsement:

(5) Additional information required by the test request.

(d) Information required to be submitted to the Administrator under this section must be sent to the following address: Director, Noise and Radiation Enforcement Division, (EN-387), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460.
