
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart E - Motorcycle Exhaust Systems
###### ยง 205.171-2 Test exhaust system sample selection and preparation.
####### i.e.

(5) In the event of a motorcycle malfunction (, failure to start, etc.) maintenance that is necessary may be performed to enable the vehicle to operate in a normal manner. This maintenance must be documented and reported in the final report prepared and submitted in accordance with this subpart.

(6) No quality control, quality assurance testing, assembly or selection procedures may be used on the test vehicle or any portion thereof, including parts and subassemblies, that will not normally be used during the production and assembly of all other motorcycles of that class which will be distributed in commerce, unless such procedures are required or permitted under this subpart or are approved in advance by the Administrator.

(b) The Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) is 10 percent. The appropriate sampling plans associated with the designated AQL are contained in appendix II or the test request.

(c) The exhaust systems of the category selected for testing must be assembled by the manufacturer for distribution in commerce using the manufacturer's normal production process.

(d) Unless otherwise indicated in the test request, the manufacturer must initiate testing with the exhaust systems of the category specified in the test request which are next scheduled for production after receipt of the test request.

(e) The manufacturer must keep on hand all products in the test sample until the sample is accepted or rejected in accordance with ยง 205.171-8; except that exhaust systems actually tested and found to be in conformance with this regulation need not be kept.
