
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart E - Motorcycle Exhaust Systems
###### ยง 205.171-9 Continued testing.

(a) If an SEA failure occurs according to paragraph (b) of ยง 205.171-8, the Administrator may require that any or all exhaust systems of that category produced at that plant be tested before distribution in commerce.

(b) The Administrator will notify the manufacturer in writing of his intent to require continued testing of exhaust systems under paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The manufacturer may request a hearing on the issues of whether the SEA was conducted properly; whether the criteria for SEA failure have been met; and the appropriateness or scope of a continued testing order. If a hearing is requested, the hearing will begin no later than 15 days after the date on which the Administrator received the hearing request. Neither the request for a hearing nor the fact that a hearing is in progress will affect the responsibility of the manufacturer to commence and continue testing required by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) Any tested exhaust system which demonstrates conformance with the applicable standard may be distributed into commerce.

(e) Any distribution into commerce of an exhaust system which does not comply with the applicable standard is a prohibited act.
