
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart E - Motorcycle Exhaust Systems
###### Appendix I to Subparts D-E of Part 205 - Motorcycle Noise Emission Test Procedures
####### Instrumentation.

(a)Proper usage of all test instrumentation is essential to obtain valid measurements. Operating manuals or other literature furnished by the instrument manufacturer must be referred to for both recommended operation of the instrument and precautions to be observed. The following instrumentation must be used, where applicable:

(1) A sound level measurement system which meets the type S1A requirements of American National Standard Specification for Sound Level Meters, ANSI S1.4-1971. As an alternative to making direct measurements using a sound level meter, a microphone or sound level meter may be used with a magnetic tape recorder and/or a graphic level recorder or indicating instrument provided that the system meets the performance requirements of ANSI S1.4-1971. The sound level measurement system must be calibrated at least annually to insure that the system meets the performance requirements of ANSI S1.4-1971.

(2) An acoustic calibrator with an accuracy of within +/-0.5 dB. The calibrator must be checked annually to verify that its output is within the specified accuracy.

(3)(i) An engine speed measurement system having the following characteristics:

(A) Steady-state accuracy of within +/-3% of actual engine speed in the range of 45% to 100% of the engine speed (RPM) where peak net brake power (maximum rated RPM) is developed; and

(B) Response characteristics such that, when closing RPM is indicated under an acceleration as described below, actual engine speed is no more than 3 percent (of closing RPM) greater than the specified closing RPM.

(ii) The vehicle tachometer may be used to ascertain:

(A) The approach RPM provided it meets the specifications in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A).

(B) The closing RPM provided it meets the specifications in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) and (B).

(iii) Indirect engine speed measurement systems, such as systems which determine engine speed from vehicle speed measurement, may be used provided the specifications of paragraph (a)(1)(i) are met.

(4) An anemometer with steady-state accuracy of within +/-10% at 20 km/h (12.4 mph).

(5) A microphone wind screen which does not affect microphone response more than +/-0.5 dB for frequencies of 20-4000 Hz or +/-1.0 dB for frequencies of 4000-10,000 Hz, taking into account the orientation of the microphone.
