
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart E - Motorcycle Exhaust Systems
###### Appendix I to Subparts D-E of Part 205 - Motorcycle Noise Emission Test Procedures
####### Measurements.

(d)(1) The sound level meter must be set for fast response and for the A-weighting network. The microphone wind screen must be used. The sound level meter must be calibrated with the acoustic calibrator as often as is necessary throughout testing to maintain the accuracy of the measurement system.

(2) The sound level meter must be observed throughout the acceleration period. The highest sound level obtained for the run must be recorded.

(3) Measurements must be made until at least four readings from each side are within 2 dB of each other. The noise level for each side is the average of the four which are within 2 dB of each other. The noise level reported must be for that side of the motorcycle having the highest noise level.

(4) While making sound level measurements, not more than one person other than the rider and the observer reading the meter may be within 15 m (49.2 ft) of the vehicle or microphone, and that person must be directly behind the observer reading the meter, on a line through the microphone and the observer.

(5) The ambient noise level (including wind effects) at the test site due to sources other than the motorcycle being measured must be at least 10 dB lower than the noise level at the microphone location produced by the motorcycle under test.

(6) Wind speed at the test site during tests must be less than 20 km/h (12.4 mph).
