
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart E - Motorcycle Exhaust Systems
###### Appendix I to Subparts D-E of Part 205 - Motorcycle Noise Emission Test Procedures
####### Measurement procedure.

(c)(1) To establish the acceleration point, the end point must be approached in second gear from the reverse of the intended test direction at a constant engine speed of 50% of maximum rated RPM or closing RPM less ten percent (of maximum rated RPM), whichever is lower, (+/-2.5% of observed reading). When the front of the motorcycle reaches the end point (approached from the reverse direction), the throttle must be smoothly and fully opened to accelerate the motorcycle past the microphone target point under wide open throttle. When the motorcycle reaches closing RPM the throttle must be smoothly and fully closed. An ignition disable device may be used to turn off the engine at closing RPM in lieu of closing the throttle manually. The location of the front of the motorcycle at the time of throttle closure is the acceleration point for the test runs. The test runs must be made in the opposite direction. A sufficient number of trial runs must be made to assure accurate establishment of the acceleration point.

(2) Closing RPM must be determined according to the motorcycle engine displacement, as follows (see Figure 2):

(3) The distance from the acceleration point to the end point must be at least 10 m (32.8 ft). If this distance is less than 10 m (32.8 ft) by the procedure specified in paragraph (c)(1), above, third gear, if the motorcycle is so equipped, must be used. If the distance is still less than 10 m (32.8 ft), fourth gear, if the motorcycle is so equipped, must be used, and so on. If closing RPM is reached before the vehicle travels 10 m (32.8 ft), with the vehicle in its highest gear, the throttle must be opened less rapidly, but in such a manner that full throttle and closing RPM are attained at the end point.

(4) If the motorcycle is equipped with an automatic transmission, the procedure specified in paragraph (c)(1), must be followed except that the lowest selectable range must be employed, and the procedure specified in paragraph (c)(3) must be followed using the next selectable higher range, if necessary, and if the vehicle is so equipped. If closing RPM is reached before the vehicle travels 10 m (32.8 ft.), the throttle must be opened less rapidly, but in such a manner that full throttle and closing RPM are attained at the end point.

(5) Throttle opening must be controlled to avoid excessive wheel slip or lift-off.

(6) To conduct a sound measurement, the motorcycle must proceed along the vehicle path in the forward direction in second gear (or higher gear as applicable under paragraph (c)(3)) at a constant engine speed of 50% of maximum rated RPM or at closing RPM less ten percent (of maximum rated RPM), whichever is lower (+/-2.5 percent of observed reading). When the front of the vehicle reaches the acceleration point, the throttle must be smoothly and fully opened. Full acceleration must continue until closing RPM is reached, which must occur within +/-1.0 m (3.3 ft.) of the end point, and at which time the throttle must be smoothly and fully closed. An ignition disable device may be used to turn off the engine at closing RPM in lieu of closing the throttle manually.

(7) A sufficient number of preliminary runs must be conducted before the testing to familiarize the rider with the test procedure and operating conditions of the vehicle. The engine temperature must be within the normal operating range prior to each run.
