
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 205 - TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT NOISE EMISSION CONTROLS
##### Subpart E - Motorcycle Exhaust Systems
###### Appendix I to Subparts D-E of Part 205 - Motorcycle Noise Emission Test Procedures
####### Measurements.

(d)(1) The sound level meter must be set for fast response and for the A-weighting network. The microphone wind screen must be used. The sound level meter must be calibrated with the acoustic calibrator as often as is necessary throughout testing to maintain the accuracy of the measurement system.

(2) The sound level meter must be observed throughout the passby period. The highest noise level obtained for the run must be recorded.

(3) At least three measurements shall be made for each side of the motorcycle. Measurements must be made until at least three readings from each side are within 2 dB of each other. The noise level for each side must be the average of the three. The noise level reported must be for that side of the motorcycle having the highest noise level. If the microphone location point is 7.5 m from the vehicle path as allowed in this appendix under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(c), the noise level must be adjusted by subtracting 6 dB prior to being reported.

(4) While making noise level measurements, not more than one person other than the rider and the observer reading the meter may be within 15 m (49.2 ft) of the vehicle or microphone, and that person must be directly behind the observer reading the meter, on a line through the microphone and the observer.

(5) The ambient sound level (including wind effects) at the test site due to sources other than the motorcycle being measured must be no greater than 60 dB if the microphone is located 15 m from the vehicle path or 66 dB if the microphone is located 7.5 m from the vehicle path as allowed in this appendix under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(c).

(6) Wind speed at the test site during tests must be less than 20 km/h (12.4 mph).
