
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart AA - Provisions for Implementation of the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards
###### § 51.1115 Emissions inventory requirements.

(a) For each nonattainment area, the state shall submit a base year inventory as defined by § 51.1100(bb) to meet the emissions inventory requirement of CAA section 182(a)(1). This inventory shall be submitted no later than 24 months after the effective date of designation. The inventory year shall be selected consistent with the baseline year for the RFP plan as required by § 51.1110(b).

(b) For each nonattainment area, the state shall submit a periodic emission inventory of emissions sources in the area to meet the requirement in CAA section 182(a)(3)(A). With the exception of the inventory year and timing of submittal, this inventory shall be consistent with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. Each periodic inventory shall be submitted no later than the end of each 3-year period after the required submission of the base year inventory for the nonattainment area. This requirement shall apply until the area is redesignated to attainment.

(c) The emissions values included in the inventories required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be actual ozone season day emissions as defined by § 51.1100(cc).

(d) The state shall report emissions from point sources according to the point source emissions thresholds of the Air Emissions Reporting Requirements (AERR), 40 CFR part 51, subpart A.

(e) The data elements in the emissions inventory shall be consistent with the detail required by 40 CFR part 51, subpart A. Since only emissions within the boundaries of the nonattainment area shall be included as defined by § 51.1100(cc), this requirement shall apply to the emissions inventories required in this section instead of any total county requirements contained in 40 CFR part 51, subpart A.
