
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 209 - RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE NOISE CONTROL ACT OF 1972
##### Subpart A - Rules of Practice Governing Hearings for Orders Issued Under Section 11(d) of the Noise Control Act
###### ยง 209.27 Interlocutory appeal.

(a) An interlocutory appeal may be taken to the Environmental Appeals Board either (1) with the consent of the administrative law judge where he or she certifies on the record or in writing that the allowance of an interlocutory appeal is clearly necessary to prevent exceptional delay, expense or prejudice to any party or substantial detriment to the public interest, or (2) absent the consent of the administrative law judge, by permission of the Environmental Appeals Board.

(b) Applications for interlocutory appeal of any ruling or order of the administrative law judge may be filed with the administrative law judge within 5 days of the issuance of the ruling or order being appealed. Answers by other parties may be filed within 5 days of the service of such applications.

(c) Applications to file such appeals absent consent of the administrative law judge shall be filed with the Environmental Appeals Board within 5 days of the denial of any appeal by the administrative law judge.

(d) The Environmental Appeals Board will consider the merits of the appeal on the application and answers. No oral argument will be heard nor other briefs filed unless the Environmental Appeals Board directs otherwise.

(e) Except under extraordinary circumstances as determined by the administrative law judge, the taking of an interlocutory appeal will not stay the hearing.
