
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 210 - PRIOR NOTICE OF CITIZEN SUITS
##### ยง 210.2 Service of notice.

(a) Notice of intent to file suit pursuant to section 12(a)(1) of the Act shall be served upon an alleged violator of a noise control requirement issued under the Act in the following manner:

(1) If the alleged violator is a private individual or a corporation, service of notice shall be accomplished by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to, or by personal service upon, the owner or managing agent of the equipment, plant, facility, vehicle, or activity alleged to be in violation. A copy of the notice shall be mailed to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the region in which such violation is alleged to have occurred; and in the case of a violation of a noise control requirement under section 611 of the Federal Aviation Act, to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Regional Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration for the region in which such violation is alleged to have occurred. If the alleged violator is a corporation, a copy of such notice also shall be mailed to the registered agent, if any, of such corporation in the State in which such violation is alleged to have occurred.

(2) If the alleged violator is a State or local government entity, service of notice shall be accomplished by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to, or by personal service upon, the head of such agency. A copy of such notice shall be mailed to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the region in which such violation is alleged to have occurred; and in the case of a violation of a noise control requirement under section 611 of the Federal Aviation Act, to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Regional Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration for the region in which such violation is alleged to have occurred.

(3) If the alleged violator is a Federal agency, service of notice shall be accomplished by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to, or by personal service upon, the head of such agency. A copy of such notice shall be mailed to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the region in which such violation is alleged to have occurred, the Attorney General of the United States; and in the case of a violation of a noise control requirement under section 611 of the Federal Aviation Act, to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Regional Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration for the region in which such violation is alleged to have occurred.

(b) Service of notice of intent to file suit pursuant to section 12(a)(2)(A) of the Act shall be accomplished by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to, or by personal service upon, the Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460. A copy of such notice shall be mailed to the Attorney General of the United States.

(c) Service of notice of intent to file suit pursuant to section 12(a)(2)(B) of the Act shall be accomplished by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to, or by personal service upon, the Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration, Washington, DC. A copy of such notice shall be mailed to the Attorney General of the United States, and to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

(d) Notice given in accordance with the provisions of this part shall be deemed to have been served on the date of receipt. If service was accomplished by mail, the date of receipt will be deemed to be the date noted on the return receipt card.
