
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 211 - PRODUCT NOISE LABELING
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 211.109 Inspection and monitoring.

(a) Any inspecting or monitoring activities that EPA conducts under this part with respect to the requirements set out in regulations published under this part, will be for the purpose of determining:

(1) Whether test products are being selected and prepared for testing in accordance with the provisions of the regulations;

(2) Whether test product testing is being conducted according to the provisions of those regulations; and

(3) Whether products that are being produced and distributed into commerce comply with the provisions of those regulations.

(b) The Director of the Noise Enforcement Division may request that a manufacturer who is subject to this part admit an EPA Enforcement Officer during operating hours to any of the following:

(1) Any facility or site where any product to be distributed into commerce is manufactured, assembled, or stored;

(2) Any facility or site where the manufacturer performed or performs any tests conducted under this part or any procedures or activities connected with those tests;

(3) Any facility or site where any test product is located.

(c)(1) Once an EPA Enforcement Officer has been admitted to a facility or site, that officer will not be authorized to do more than the following:

(i) Inspect and monitor the manufacture and assembly, selection, storage, preconditioning, noise testing, and maintenance of test products, and to verify the correlation or calibration of test equipment;

(ii) Inspect products before they are distributed in commerce;

(iii) Inspect and make copies of any records, reports, documents, or information that the manufacturer must maintain or provide to the Administrator under the Act or under any provision of this part;

(iv) Inspect and photograph any part or aspect of any product and any components used in manufacturing the product that is reasonably related to the purpose of this entry; and

(v) Obtain from those in charge of the facility or site any reasonable assistance that he may request to enable him to carry out any function listed in this section.

(2) The provisions of this section apply whether the facility or site is owned or controlled by the manufacturer, or by someone who acts for the manufacturer.

(d) For the purposes of this section:

(1) An "EPA Enforcement Officer" is an employee of the EPA Office of Enforcement. When he arrives at a facility or site, he must display the credentials that identify him as an employee of the EPA and a letter signed by the Director of the Noise Enforcement Division designating him to make the inspection.

(2) Where test product storage areas or facilities are concerned, "operating hours" means all times during which personnel, other than custodial personnel, are at work in the vicinity of the area or facility and have access to it.

(3) Where other facilities or areas are concerned, "operating hours" means all times during which products are being manufactured or assembled; or all times during which products are being tested or maintained; or records are being compiled; or when any other procedure or activity related to labeling, selective enforcement auditing, or product manufacture or assembly being carried out.

(4) "Reasonable assistance" means providing timely and unobstructed access to test products or to products and records that are required by this part, and the means for copying those records or the opportunity to test the test products.

(e) The manufacturer must admit an EPA Enforcement Officer who presents a warrant authorizing entry to a facility or site. If the EPA officer does not have the warrant, he may enter a facility or site only if the manufacturer consents.

(1) It is not a violation of this regulation or the Act if anyone refuses to allow an officer without a warrant to enter the site.
