
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 211 - PRODUCT NOISE LABELING
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 211.111 Testing by the Administrator.

(a)(1) To determine whether products conform to applicable regulations under this part, the Administrator may require that any product that is to be tested under applicable regulations in this part, or any other products that are regulated under this part, be submitted to him, at a place and time that he designates, to conduct tests on them in accordance with the test procedures described in the regulations.

(2) The Administrator may specify that he will conduct the testing at the facility where the manufacturer conducted required testing. The Administrator will conduct the tests with his own equipment.

(b)(1) If, from the tests conducted by the Administrator, or other relevant information, the Administrator determines that the test facility used by the manufacturer(s) does not meet the requirements of this part for conducting the test required by this part, he will notify the manufacturer(s) in writing of his determination and the reasons for it.

(2) After the Administrator has notified the manufacturer, EPA will not accept any data from the subject test facility for the purposes of this part, and the Administrator may issue an order to the manufacturer(s) to cease to distribute in commerce products that come from the product categories in question. However, any such order shall be issued only after an opportunity for a hearing. Notification of this opportunity may be included in a notification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A manufacturer may request that the Administrator grant a hearing. He must make this request no later than fifteen (15) days (or any other period the Administrator allows) after the Administrator has notified the manufacturer that he intends to issue an order to cease to distribute.

(3) A manufacturer may request in writing that the Administrator reconsider his determination in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if he can provide data or information which indicates that changes have been made to the test facility, and that those changes have remedied the reason for disqualification.

(4) The Administrator will notify a manufacturer of his decision concerning requalifying the test facility within 10 days of the time the manufacturer requested reconsideration under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(c)(1) The Administrator will assume all reasonable costs associated with shipment of products to the place designated pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, except with respect to:

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) Testing of a reasonable number of products for purposes of compliance audit testing under the Section titled Compliance Audit Testing of the product-specific Subpart, or if the manufacturer has failed to establish that there is a correlation between his test facility and the EPA test facility or the Administrator has reason to believe, and provides the manufacturer with a statement or reasons, that the products to be tested would fail to meet their verification level if tested at the EPA test facility, but would meet the level if tested at the manufacturer's test facility;

(iii) Any testing performed during a period when a notice issued under paragraph (b) of this section, is in effect; and

(iv) Any testing performed at place other than the manufacturer's facility as a result of the manufacturer's failure to permit the Administrator to conduct or monitor testing as required by this part.
