
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 211 - PRODUCT NOISE LABELING
##### Subpart B - Hearing Protective Devices
###### ยง 211.210-2 Labeling requirements.

(a)(1) A manufacturer responsible for labeling must satisfy the requirements of this subpart for a category of hearing protectors before distributing that category of hearing protectors in commerce.

(2) A manufacturer may apply to the Administrator for an extension of time to comply with the labeling requirements for a category of protectors before he distributes any protectors in commerce. The Administrator may grant the manufacturer an extension of up to 20 days from the date of distribution. The manufacturer must provide reasonable assurance that the protectors equal or exceed their mean attenuation values, and that labeling requirements will be satisfied before the extension expires. Requests for extension should go to the Administrator, U.S. Environment Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460. The Administrator must respond to a request within 2 business days. Responses may be either written or oral.

(3) A manufacturer, receiving hearing protectors through the chain of distribution that were labeled by a previous manufacturer, may use that previous manufacturer's data when labeling the protectors for ultimate sale or use, but is responsible for the accuracy of the information on the label. The manufacturer may elect to retest the protectors.

(b) Labeling requirements regarding each hearing protector category in a manufacturer's product line consist of:

(1) Testing hearing protectors according to ยง 211.206 and the hearing protectors must have been assembled by the manufacturer's normal production process; and it must have been intended for distribution in commerce.

(c) Each category of hearing protectors is determined by the combination of at least the following parameters. Manufacturers may use additional parameters as needed to create and identify additional categories of protectors.
