
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 211 - PRODUCT NOISE LABELING
##### Subpart B - Hearing Protective Devices
###### ยง 211.212-2 Test hearing protector selection.

(a) The test request will specify the number of test protectors which will be selected for testing from the number of protectors delivered to the test facility in accordance with ยง 211.212-1(c)(5). The remainder may be used as replacement protectors if replacement is necessary. The test request will also specify that the protectors be selected from the next batch scheduled for production after receipt of the test request.

(b) If random selection is specified, it must be achieved by sequentially numbering all the protectors in the group and then using a table of random numbers to select the test hearing protectors. The manufacturer may use an alternative random selection plan when it is approved by the Administrator.

(c) Each test protector of the category selected for testing must have been assembled, by the manufacturer, for distribution in commerce using the manufacturer's normal production process.

(d) At their discretion, EPA Enforcement Officers, rather than the manufacturer, may select the protectors designated in the test request.

(e) The manufacturer must keep on hand the test protectors designated for testing until such time as the category is determined to be in compliance. Hearing protectors actually tested and found to be in compliance with these regulations may be distributed in commerce.
