
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 211 - PRODUCT NOISE LABELING
##### Subpart B - Hearing Protective Devices
###### ยง 211.212-1 Test request.

(a) The Administrator will request all testing under this section by means of a test request addressed to the manufacturer.

(b) The test request will be signed by the Assistant Administrator for Enforcement or his designee. The test request will be delivered by an EPA Enforcement Officer or sent by certified mail to the plant manager or other responsible official as designated by the manufacturer.

(c) In the test request, the Administrator must specify the following:

(1) The hearing protector category selected for testing;

(2) The manufacturer's plant or storage facility from which the protectors must be selected;

(3) The selection procedure the manufacturer will use to select test protectors;

(4) The test facility where the manufacturer is required to have the protectors tested;

(5) The number of protectors to be forwarded to the designated test facility and the number of those protectors which must be tested by the facility.

(6) The time period allowed for the manufacturer to initiate testing; and

(7) Any other information that will be necessary to conduct testing under this section.

(d) The test request may provide for situations in which the selected category is unavailable for testing. It may include an alternative category to be selected for testing in the event that protectors of the first specified category are not available because the protectors are not being manufactured at the specified plant, at the specified time, and are not being stored at the specified plant or storage facility.

(e)(1) Any testing conducted by the manufacturer under a test request must commence within the period specified within the test request. The Administrator may extend the time period on request by the manufacturer, if a test facility is not available to conduct the testing.

(2) The manufacturer must complete the required testing within one week following commencement of the testing.

(3) The manufacturer will be allowed 1 calendar week to send test hearing protectors from the assembly plant to the testing facility. The Administrator may approve more time based upon a request by the manufacturer. The request must be accompanied by a satisfactory justification.

(f) Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this section will not be considered a violation of these regulations if conditions and circumstances outside the control of the manufacturer render it impossible for him to comply. These conditions and circumstances include, but are not limited to, the temporary unavailability of equipment and personnel needed to conduct the required tests. The manufacturer bears the burden of establishing the presence of the conditions and circumstances.
