
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter G - Noise Abatement Programs
#### PART 211 - PRODUCT NOISE LABELING
##### Subpart B - Hearing Protective Devices
###### § 211.212-7 Continued compliance testing.

If a category is not in compliance as determined under § 211.212-6, the manufacturer must satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(a) The manufacturer must continue to conduct additional tests until the mean attenuation values from the last test at each octave band equal or exceed the lowest attenuation values obtained from all previous compliance tests.

(b) Upon approval by the Administrator, the manufacturer may relabel at a lower level in compliance with § 211.212-8 in lieu of testing under paragraph (a) of this section. The manufacturer must obtain approval by showing that the relabeled values adequately take into account results achieved from the Compliance Audit Testing and product variability. The Administrator is to exercise his discretion in light of factors including the prior compliance record of the manufacturer, the adequacy of the proposed new labeling value, the amount of deviation of test results from the labeled values, and any other relevant information.

(c) When the manufacturer can show that the non-compliance under § 211.212-6 was caused by a quality control failure and that the failure has been remedied, he may, with the Administrator's approval, conduct an additional test and relabel using the mean attenuation values no higher than those obtained in that test.

(d) The manufacturer may request a hearing on the issue of whether the compliance audit testing was conducted properly and whether the criteria for non-compliance in § 211.212-6 have been met; and the appropriateness or scope of a continued testing order. In the event that a hearing is requested, the hearing shall begin no later than 15 days after the date on which the Administrator received the hearing request. Neither the request for a hearing, nor the fact that a hearing is in progress, shall affect the responsibility of the manufacturer to commence and continue testing required by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
