
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart AA - Provisions for Implementation of the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards
###### ยง 51.1119 Applicability.
####### ยง 51.1203 Air agency requirements.

(a) The air agency shall submit a list of applicable SOsources identified pursuant to ยง 51.1202 located in its jurisdiction to the EPA by January 15, 2016. This list may be revised by the Regional Administrator after review based on available SOemissions data.

(b) For each source area subject to requirements for air quality characterization, the air agency shall notify the EPA by July 1, 2016, whether it has chosen to characterize peak 1-hour SOconcentrations in such area through ambient air quality monitoring; characterize peak 1-hour SOconcentrations in such area through air quality modeling techniques; or provide federally enforceable emission limitations by January 13, 2017 that limit emissions of applicable sources to less than 2,000 tpy, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, or provide documentation that the applicable source has permanently shut down. Emission limits in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section may be established in lieu of conducting monitoring or modeling unless, in the judgment of the air agency or the EPA Regional Administrator, the area warrants further air quality characterization even with the establishment of any new emission limit(s). If the air agency has chosen to establish requirements to limit emissions for applicable sources in an area, the notification from the air agency shall describe the requirements and emission limits the air agency intends to apply. For any area with multiple applicable sources, the air agency (or air agencies if a multi-state area) shall use the same technique (monitoring, modeling, or emissions limitation) for all applicable sources in the area. If multiple air agencies have applicable sources in an area, the air agencies must consult with each other to employ a common technique for the area.
