
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 222 - ACTION ON OCEAN DUMPING PERMIT APPLICATIONS UNDER SECTION 102 OF THE ACT
##### ยง 222.11 Conduct of adjudicatory hearings.
###### Adjudicatory hearing procedures.

(e)(1) The burden of going forward with the evidence shall:

(i) In the case of any adjudicatory hearing held pursuant to ยง 222.10(b)(1), be on the person filing a request under ยง 222.10(a) as to each issue raised by the request; and

(ii) In the case of any adjudicatory hearing held pursuant to ยง 223.2 or pursuant to part 226, be on the Environmental Protection Agency.

(2) The Presiding Officer shall have the duty to conduct a fair and impartial hearing, to take action to avoid unnecessary delay in the disposition of proceedings, and to maintain order. He shall have all powers necessary or appropriate to that end, including without limitation, the following:

(i) To administer oaths and affirmations;

(ii) To rule upon offers of proof and receive relevant evidence;

(iii) To regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties and their counsel;

(iv) To consider and rule upon all procedural and other motions appropriate to the proceedings; and

(v) To take any action authorized by these regulations and in conformance with law.

(3) Parties shall have the right to cross-examine a witness who appears at an adjudicatory hearing to the extent that such cross-examination is necessary or appropriate for a full disclosure of the facts. In multi-party proceedings the Presiding Officer may limit cross-examination to one party on each side if he is satisfied that the cross-examination by one party will adequately protect the interests of other parties.

(4) When a party will not be unfairly prejudiced thereby, the Presiding Officer may order all or part of the evidence to be submitted in written form.

(5) Rulings of the Presiding Officer on the admissibility of evidence, the propriety of cross-examination, and other procedural matters, shall be final and shall appear in the record.

(6) Interlocutory appeals may not be taken.

(7) Parties shall be presumed to have taken exception to an adverse ruling.

(8) The proceedings of all hearings shall be recorded by such means as the Presiding Officer may determine. The original transcript of the hearing shall be a part of the record and the sole official transcript. Copies of the transcript shall be available from the Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with 40 CFR part 2.

(9) The rules of evidence shall not apply.
