
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 222 - ACTION ON OCEAN DUMPING PERMIT APPLICATIONS UNDER SECTION 102 OF THE ACT
##### ยง 222.11 Conduct of adjudicatory hearings.
###### Decision after adjudicatory hearing.

(f)(1) Within 30 days after the conclusion of the adjudicatory hearing, or within such additional period as the Administrator or the Regional Administrator, as the case may be, may grant to the Presiding Officer for good cause shown, the Presiding Officer shall submit to the Administrator or the Regional Administrator, as the case may be, proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law, his recommendation with respect to any and all issues raised at the hearing, and the record of the hearing. Such findings, conclusions and recommendations shall contain a brief statement of the basis for the recommendations. Copies of the Presiding Officer's proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommendations shall be provided to all parties to the adjudicatory hearing on request, without charge.

(2) Within 20 days following submission of the Presiding Officer's proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommendations, any party may submit written exceptions, no more than 30 pages in length, to such proposed findings, conclusions and recommendations and within 30 days following the submission of the Presiding Officer's proposed findings, conclusions and recommendations any party may file written comments, no more than 30 pages in length, on another party's exceptions. Within 45 days following the submission of the Presiding Officer's proposed findings, conclusions and recommendations, the Administrator or the Regional Administrator, as the case may be, shall make a determination with respect to all issues raised at such hearing and shall affirm, reverse or modify the previous or proposed determination, as the case may be. Notice of such determination shall set forth the determination for each such issue, shall briefly state the basis therefor and shall be given by mail to all parties to the adjudicatory hearing.
