
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 227 - CRITERIA FOR THE EVALUATION OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS FOR OCEAN DUMPING OF MATERIALS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 227.1 Applicability.

(a) Section 102 of the Act requires that criteria for the issuance of ocean disposal permits be promulgated after consideration of the environmental effect of the proposed dumping operation, the need for ocean dumping, alternatives to ocean dumping, and the effect of the proposed action on esthetic, recreational and economic values and on other uses of the ocean. These parts 227 and 228 of this subchapter H together constitute the criteria established pursuant to section 102 of the Act. The decision of the Administrator, Regional Administrator or the District Engineer, as the case may be, to issue or deny a permit and to impose specific conditions on any permit issued will be based on an evaluation of the permit application pursuant to the criteria set forth in this part 227 and upon the requirements for disposal site management pursuant to the criteria set forth in part 228 of this subchapter H.

(b) With respect to the criteria to be used in evaluating disposal of dredged materials, this section and subparts C, D, E, and G apply in their entirety. To determine whether the proposed dumping of dredged material complies with subpart B, only §§ 227.4, 227.5, 227.6, 227.9, 227.10 and 227.13 apply. An applicant for a permit to dump dredged material must comply with all of subparts C, D, E, G and applicable sections of B, to be deemed to have met the EPA criteria for dredged material dumping promulgated pursuant to section 102(a) of the Act. If, in any case, the Chief of Engineers finds that, in the disposition of dredged material, there is no economically feasible method or site available other than a dumping site, the utilization of which would result in noncompliance with the criteria established pursuant to subpart B relating to the effects of dumping or with the restrictions established pursuant to section 102(c) of the Act relating to critical areas, he shall so certify and request that the Secretary of the Army seek a waiver from the Administrator pursuant to part 225.

(c) The Criteria of this part 227 are established pursuant to section 102 of the Act and apply to the evaluation of proposed dumping of materials under title I of the Act. The Criteria of this part 227 deal with the evaluation of proposed dumping of materials on a case-by-case basis from information supplied by the applicant or otherwise available to EPA or the Corps of Engineers concerning the characteristics of the waste and other considerations relating to the proposed dumping.

(d) After consideration of the provisions of §§ 227.28 and 227.29, no permit will be issued when the dumping would result in a violation of applicable water quality standards.
