
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 227 - CRITERIA FOR THE EVALUATION OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS FOR OCEAN DUMPING OF MATERIALS
##### Subpart G - Definitions
###### ยง 227.32 Liquid, suspended particulate, and solid phases of a material.

(a) For the purposes of these regulations, the liquid phase of a material, subject to the exclusions of paragraph (b) of this section, is the supernatant remaining after one hour undisturbed settling, after centrifugation and filtration through a 0.45 micron filter. The suspended particulate phase is the supernatant as obtained above prior to centrifugation and filtration. The solid phase includes all material settling to the bottom in one hour. Settling shall be conducted according to procedures approved by EPA.

(b) For dredged material, other material containing large proportions of insoluble matter, materials which may interact with ocean water to form insoluble matter or new toxic compounds, or materials which may release toxic compounds upon deposition, the Administrator, Regional Administrator, or the District Engineer, as the case may be, may require that the separation of liquid, suspended particulate, and solid phases of the material be performed upon a mixture of the waste with ocean water rather than on the material itself. In such cases the following procedures shall be used:

(1) For dredged material, the liquid phase is considered to be the centrifuged and 0.45 micron filtered supernatant remaining after one hour undisturbed settling of the mixture resulting from a vigorous 30-minute agitation of one part bottom sediment from the dredging site with four parts water (vol/vol) collected from the dredging site or from the disposal site, as appropriate for the type of dredging operation. The suspended particulate phase is the supernatant as obtained above prior to centrifugation and filtration. The solid phase is considered to be all material settling to the bottom within one hour. Settling shall be conducted by procedures approved by EPA and the Corps of Engineers.

(2) For other materials, the proportion of ocean water used shall be the minimum amount necessary to produce the anticipated effect (e.g., complete neutralization of an acid or alkaline waste) based on guidance provided by EPA on particular cases, or in accordance with approved EPA procedures. For such materials the liquid phase is the filtered and centrifuged supernatant resulting from the mixture after 30 minutes of vigorous shaking followed by undisturbed settling for one hour. The suspended particulate phase is the supernatant as obtained above prior to centrifugation and filtration. The solid phase is the insoluble material settling to the bottom in that period.
