
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 228 - CRITERIA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF DISPOSAL SITES FOR OCEAN DUMPING
##### ยง 228.13 Guidelines for ocean disposal site baseline or trend assessment surveys under section 102 of the Act.

The purpose of a baseline or trend assessment survey is to determine the physical, chemical, geological, and biological structure of a proposed or existing disposal site at the time of the survey. A baseline or trend assessment survey is to be regarded as a comprehensive synoptic and representative picture of existing conditions; each such survey is to be planned as part of a continual monitoring program through which changes in conditions at a disposal site can be documented and assessed. Surveys will be planned in coordination with the ongoing programs of NOAA and other Federal, State, local, or private agencies with missions in the marine environment. The field survey data collection phase of a disposal site evaluation or designation study shall be planned and conducted to obtain a body of information both representative of the site at the time of study and obtained by techniques reproducible in precision and accuracy in future studies. A full plan of study which will provide a record of sampling, analytical, and data reduction procedures must be developed, documented and approved by the EPA management authority. Plans for all surveys which will produce information to be used in the preparation of environmental impact statements will be approved by the Administrator or his designee. This plan of study also shall be incorporated as an appendix into a technical report on the study, together with notations describing deviations from the plan required in actual operations. Relative emphasis on individual aspects of the environment at each site will depend on the type of wastes disposed of at the site and the manner in which such wastes are likely to affect the local environment, but no major feature of the disposal site may be neglected. The observations made and the data obtained are to be based on the information necessary to evaluate the site for ocean dumping. The parameters measured will be those indicative, either directly or indirectly, of the immediate and long-term impact of pollutants on the environment at the disposal site and adjacent land or water areas. An initial disposal site evaluation or designation study should provide an immediate baseline appraisal of a particular site, but it should also be regarded as the first of a series of studies to be continued as long as the site is used for waste disposal.
