
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 228 - CRITERIA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF DISPOSAL SITES FOR OCEAN DUMPING
##### ยง 228.13 Guidelines for ocean disposal site baseline or trend assessment surveys under section 102 of the Act.
###### Measurements of the benthic region,Bottom sampling.

(e)-(1)Samples of the bottom shall be taken for both sediment composition and structure, and to determine the nature and numbers of benthic biota.

(i) At each station sampling may consist of core samples, grab samples, dredge samples, trawls, and bottom photography or television, where available and feasible, depending on the nature of the bottom and the type of disposal site. Each type of sampling shall be replicated sufficiently to obtain a representative set of samples. The minimum numbers of replicates of successful samples at each continental shelf station for each type of device mentioned above are as follows:

(ii) Selection of bottom stations will be based to a large extent on the bottom topography and hydrography as determined by the bathymetric survey. On the continental shelf, where the bottom has no significant discontinuities, a bottom station density of at least three times the water column stations is recommended, depending on the type of site being evaluated. Where there are significant differences in bottom topography, additional stations shall be occupied near the discontinuity and on each side of it. Beyond the continental shelf, lesser densities may be used.
