
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 228 - CRITERIA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF DISPOSAL SITES FOR OCEAN DUMPING
##### ยง 228.13 Guidelines for ocean disposal site baseline or trend assessment surveys under section 102 of the Act.
###### Measurements in the water column at and near the dump site,Water quality parameters measured.,a.

(d)-(1)These shall include the major indicators of water quality, particularly those likely to be affected by the waste proposed to be dumped. Specifically included at all stations are measurements of temperature, dissolved oxygen, salinity, suspended solids, turbidity, total organic carbon, pH, inorganic nutrients, and chlorophyll

(i) At one station near the center of the disposal site, samples of the water column shall be taken for the analysis of the following parameters: Mercury, cadmium, copper, chromium, zinc, lead, arsenic, selenium, vanadium, beryllium, nickel, pesticides, petroleum hydrocarbons, and persistent organoha-logens. These samples shall be preserved for subsequent analysis by or under the direct supervision of EPA laboratories in accordance with the approved plan of study.

(ii) These parameters are the basic requirements for all sites. For the evaluation of any specific disposal site additional measurements may be required, depending on the present or intended use of the site. Additional parameters may be selected based on the materials likely to be in wastes dumped at the site, and on parameters likely to be affected by constituents of such wastes. Analysis for other constituents characteristic of wastes discharged to a particular disposal site, or of the impact of such wastes on water quality, will be included in accordance with the approved plan of study.
