
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 228 - CRITERIA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF DISPOSAL SITES FOR OCEAN DUMPING
##### ยง 228.13 Guidelines for ocean disposal site baseline or trend assessment surveys under section 102 of the Act.
###### Nature of bottom.

(3)The size distribution of sediments, mineral character and chemical quality of the bottom will be determined to a depth appropriate for the type of bottom. The following parameters will be measured at all stations: Particle size distribution, major mineral constituents, texture, settling rate, and organic carbon.

(i) At several stations near the center of the disposal site, samples of sediments shall be taken for the analysis of the following parameters: Mercury, cadmium, copper, chromium, zinc, lead, arsenic, selenium, vanadium, beryllium, nickel, pesticides, persistent organohalogens, and petroleum hydrocarbons. These samples shall be preserved for subsequent analysis by or under the direct supervision of EPA laboratories in accordance with the approved plan of study.

(ii) These parameters are the basic requirements for all sites. For the evaluation of any specific disposal site additional measurements may be required, depending on the present or intended use of the site. Additional parameters may be selected based on the materials likely to be in wastes dumped at the site, and on parameters likely to be affected by constituents of such wastes. Such additional parameters will be selected by the EPA management authority.
