
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 228 - CRITERIA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF DISPOSAL SITES FOR OCEAN DUMPING
##### ยง 228.15 Dumping sites designated on a final basis.
###### 4,Organization and procedures.

()Specific details regarding structure (e.g., chair, committees, working groups) and process shall be determined by the LIS RDT and may be revised as necessary to best accomplish the team's purpose.

(G) If the volume of open-water disposal of dredged material, as measured in 2026, has not declined or been maintained over the prior ten years, then any party may petition EPA to conduct a rulemaking to amend the restrictions on the use of the sites.

(H) Disposal shall be limited to dredged sediments that comply with the Ocean Dumping Regulations.

(I) Disposal of dredged material at the designated sites pursuant to the designation in this paragraph (b)(4) shall not be allowed for any materials subject to a waiver under 33 U.S.C. 1413(d) unless, for any project where a waiver is sought, the New England or New York District of the USACE provides notification, by certified mail at least thirty (30) days before making the waiver request, to the Governors of the states of Connecticut and New York and the North Atlantic Division of the USACE that it will be requesting a waiver.

(J) Transportation of dredged material to the sites shall only be allowed when weather and sea conditions will not interfere with safe transportation and will not create risk of spillage, leak or other loss of dredged material in transit. No disposal trips shall be initiated when the National Weather Service has issued a gale warning for local waters during the time period necessary to complete dumping operations.

(K) Nothing in the designation in this paragraph (b)(4) or elsewhere precludes the EPA from exercising its statutory authority to designate other ocean disposal sites, not subject to the restrictions in paragraph (b)(4)(vi), or taking any subsequent action to modify the site designation in paragraph (b)(4), provided that the EPA makes any such designation or takes such subsequent action through a separate rulemaking in accordance with all applicable legal requirements. Nothing in this designation shall be interpreted to restrict the EPA's authorities under the MPRSA or the implementing regulations or to amend the implementing regulations.

(5) Western Long Island Sound Dredged Material Disposal Site (WLDS).
