
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 228 - CRITERIA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF DISPOSAL SITES FOR OCEAN DUMPING
##### ยง 228.15 Dumping sites designated on a final basis.
###### Restrictions:

(vi)Disposal shall be limited to dredged material from Shark River Inlet, New Jersey.

(6) Historical Area Remediation Site (HARS) Designation/Mud Dump Site Termination.

(i) Status of Former Mud Dump Site: The Mud Dump Site, designated as an Impact Category I site on May 4, 1984, is terminated.

(ii) Location: (A) The HARS (which includes the 2.2 square nautical mile area of the former Mud Dump Site) is a 15.7 square nautical mile area located approximately 3.5 nautical miles east of Highlands, New Jersey and 7.7 nautical miles south of Rockaway, Long Island. The HARS consists of a Primary Remediation Area (PRA), a Buffer Zone, and a No Discharge Zone. The HARS is bounded by the following coordinates:

(B) The PRA, is a 9.0 square nautical mile area to be remediated with at least a 1 meter cap of the Material for Remediation. The PRA is bounded by the following coordinates:

(iii) Size: 15.7 square nautical miles.

(iv) Depth: Ranges from 12 to 42 meters.

(v) Restrictions on Use:

(A) The site will be managed so as to reduce impacts within the PRA to acceptable levels in accordance with 40 CFR 228.11(c). Use of the site will be restricted to dredged material suitable for use as the Material for Remediation. This material shall be selected so as to ensure it will not cause significant undesirable effects including through bioaccumulation or unacceptable toxicity, in accordance with 40 CFR 227.6.

(B) Placement of Material for Remediation will be limited to the PRA. Placement of Material for Remediation within the PRA is not allowed in a 0.27 nautical mile radius around the following coordinates due to the presence of shipwrecks: 40&#xB0;25.30&#x2032; W, 73&#xB0;52.80&#x2032; N; 40&#xB0;25.27&#x2032; W, 73&#xB0;52.13&#x2032; N; 40&#xB0;25.07&#x2032; W, 73&#xB0;50.05&#x2032; N; 40&#xB0;22.46&#x2032; W, 73&#xB0;53.27&#x2032; N.

(C) No placement of material may take place within the Buffer Zone, although this zone may receive material that incidentally spreads out of the PRA. The Buffer Zone is an approximately 5.7 square nautical mile area (0.27 nautical mile wide band around the PRA), which is bounded by the following coordinates:

(D) No placement or incidental spread of the material is allowed within the No Discharge Zone, an approximately 1.0 square nautical mile area, bounded by the following coordinates:

(E) HARS-specific Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) Tissue Criterion: Total PCB bioaccumulation worm test results for dredged material approved for placement at the HARS as Material for Remediation shall not exceed the HARS-specific PCB tissue criterion of 113 ppb. This HARS-specific PCB tissue criterion will be applied to the arithmetic mean concentration reported for the analyses of the worm tissue replicates exposed to the tested sediments, without the use of statistical confidence limits.

(vi) Period of Use: Continuing use until EPA determines that the PRA has been sufficiently capped with at least 1 meter of the Material for Remediation. At that time, EPA will undertake any necessary rulemaking to de-designate the HARS.

(7) Manasquan, New Jersey Dredged Material Disposal Site.
