
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 228 - CRITERIA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF DISPOSAL SITES FOR OCEAN DUMPING
##### ยง 228.15 Dumping sites designated on a final basis.
###### i,Pelagic communities.

()Tier 1 Biological Monitoring shall include regional surveys of seabirds, marine mammals and mid-water column fish populations appropriate for evaluating how these populations might be affected by disposal site use. A combination of annual regional and periodic (random) shipboard surveys of seabirds and marine mammals will be used. The regional survey designs for each category of biota shall be similar to that used for the regional characterization studies referenced in the Final Environmental Impact Statement for Designation of a Deep Water Ocean Dredged Material Disposal Site off San Francisco, California (August 1993) with appropriate realignments to accommodate transects within and in the vicinity of the SF-DODS. The periodic shipboard surveys shall be performed from vessels involved in dredged material disposal operations at the SF-DODS as specified in permit conditions imposed pursuant to paragraph (l)(3)(viii)(A)(12) of this section. The minimum number of surveys must be sufficient to characterize the disposal operations for each project, and, as practicable, provide seasonal data for an assessment of the potential for adverse impacts for the one-year period. An appropriate time-series (ordinal), and community analysis shall be performed using data collected during the current year and previous years.
