
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix L to Part 51 - Example Regulations for Prevention of Air Pollution Emergency Episodes
###### Preplanned abatement strategies,

1.3(a) Any person responsible for the operation of a source of air pollutants as set forth in Tables I-III shall prepare standby plans for reducing the emission of air pollutants during periods of an Air Pollution Alert, Air Pollution Warning, and Air Pollution Emergency. Standby plans shall be designed to reduce or eliminate emissions of air pollutants in accordance with the objectives set forth in Tables I-III which are made a part of this section.

(b) Any person responsible for the operation of a source of air pollutants not set forth under section 1.3(a) shall, when requested by the Director in writing, prepare standby plans for reducing the emission of air pollutants during periods of an Air Pollution Alert, Air Pollution Warning, and Air Pollution Emergency. Standby plans shall be designed to reduce or eliminate emissions of air pollutants in accordance with the objectives set forth in Tables I-III.

(c) Standby plans as required under section 1.3(a) and (b) shall be in writing and identify the sources of air pollutants, the approximate amount of reduction of pollutants and a brief description of the manner in which the reduction will be achieved during an Air Pollution Alert, Air Pollution Warning, and Air Pollution Emergency.

(d) During a condition of Air Pollution Alert, Air Pollution Warning, and Air Pollution Emergency, standby plans as required by this section shall be made available on the premises to any person authorized to enforce the provisions of applicable rules and regulations.

(e) Standby plans as required by this section shall be submitted to the Director upon request within thirty (30) days of the receipt of such request; such standby plans shall be subject to review and approval by the Director. If, in the opinion of the Director, a standby plan does not effectively carry out the objectives as set forth in Table I-III, the Director may disapprove it, state his reason for disapproval and order the preparation of an amended standby plan within the time period specified in the order.

1. There shall be no open burning by any persons of tree waste, vegetation, refuse, or debris in any form.

2. The use of incinerators for the disposal of any form of solid waste shall be limited to the hours between 12 noon and 4 p.m.

3. Persons operating fuel-burning equipment which required boiler lancing or soot blowing shall perform such operations only between the hours of 12 noon and 4 p.m.

4. Persons operating motor vehicles should eliminate all unnecessary operations.

Any person responsible for the operation of a source of air pollutants listed below shall take all required control actions for this Alert Level.

1. There shall be no open burning by any persons of tree waste, vegetation, refuse, or debris in any form.

2. The use of incinerators for the disposal of any form of solid waste or liquid waste shall be prohibited.

3. Persons operating fuel-burning equipment which requires boiler lancing or soot blowing shall perform such operations only between the hours of 12 noon and 4 p.m.

4. Persons operating motor vehicles must reduce operations by the use of car pools and increased use of public transportation and elimination of unnecessary operation.

Any person responsible for the operation of a source of air pollutants listed below shall take all required control actions for this Warning Level.

1. There shall be no open burning by any persons of tree waste, vegetation, refuse, or debris in any form.

2. The use of incinerators for the disposal of any form of solid or liquid waste shall be prohibited.

3. All places of employment described below shall immediately cease operations.

a. Mining and quarrying of nonmetallic minerals.

b. All construction work except that which must proceed to avoid emergent physical harm.

c. All manufacturing establishments except those required to have in force an air pollution emergency plan.

d. All wholesale trade establishments; i.e., places of business primarily engaged in selling merchandise to retailers, or industrial, commercial, institutional or professional users, or to other wholesalers, or acting as agents in buying merchandise for or selling merchandise to such persons or companies, except those engaged in the distribution of drugs, surgical supplies and food.

e. All offices of local, county and State government including authorities, joint meetings, and other public bodies excepting such agencies which are determined by the chief administrative officer of local, county, or State government, authorities, joint meetings and other public bodies to be vital for public safety and welfare and the enforcement of the provisions of this order.

f. All retail trade establishments except pharmacies, surgical supply distributors, and stores primarily engaged in the sale of food.

g. Banks, credit agencies other than banks, securities and commodities brokers, dealers, exchanges and services; offices of insurance carriers, agents and brokers, real estate offices.

h. Wholesale and retail laundries, laundry services and cleaning and dyeing establishments; photographic studios; beauty shops, barber shops, shoe repair shops.

i. Advertising offices; consumer credit reporting, adjustment and collection agencies; duplicating, addressing, blueprinting; photocopying, mailing, mailing list and stenographic services; equipment rental services, commercial testing laboratories.

j. Automobile repair, automobile services, garages.

k. Establishments rendering amusement and recreational services including motion picture theaters.

l. Elementary and secondary schools, colleges, universities, professional schools, junior colleges, vocational schools, and public and private libraries.

4. All commercial and manufacturing establishments not included in this order will institute such actions as will result in maximum reduction of air pollutants from their operation by ceasing, curtailing, or postponing operations which emit air pollutants to the extent possible without causing injury to persons or damage to equipment.

5. The use of motor vehicles is prohibited except in emergencies with the approval of local or State police.

Any person responsible for the operation of a source of air pollutants listed below shall take all required control actions for this Emergency Level.
