
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### Circular A-119.,Circular A-119,http://standards.gov/standards_gov/a119.cfm.,http://www.epa.gov/ttn/emc.

d. The technical criteria documents for the accredited sample providers and the accrediting body shall be developed through a public process guided by a voluntary consensus standards body (VCSB). The VCSB shall operate in accordance with the procedures and requirements in the Office of Management and BudgetA copy ofis available upon request by writing the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503, by calling (202) 395-6880 or by downloading online atThe VCSB shall approve all accrediting bodies. The Administrator will review all technical criteria documents. If the technical criteria documents do not meet the minimum technical requirements in this Appendix M, paragraphs b. through d., the technical criteria documents are not acceptable and the proposed audit sample program is not capable of producing audit samples of sufficient quality to be used in a compliance test. All acceptable technical criteria documents shall be posted on the EPA Web site at the following URL,

1.1 Applicability. This method applies to the in-stack measurement of particulate matter (PM) emissions equal to or less than an aerodynamic diameter of nominally 10 µm (PM) from stationary sources. The EPA recognizes that condensible emissions not collected by an in-stack method are also PM, and that emissions that contribute to ambient PMlevels are the sum of condensible emissions and emissions measured by an in-stack PMmethod, such as this method or Method 201A. Therefore, for establishing source contributions to ambient levels of PM, such as for emission inventory purposes, EPA suggests that source PMmeasurement include both in-stack PMand condensible emissions. Condensible missions may be measured by an impinger analysis in combination with this method.

1.2 Principle. A gas sample is isokinetically extracted from the source. An in-stack cyclone is used to separate PM greater than PM, and an in-stack glass fiber filter is used to collect the PM. To maintain isokinetic flow rate conditions at the tip of the probe and a constant flow rate through the cyclone, a clean, dried portion of the sample gas at stack temperature is recycled into the nozzle. The particulate mass is determined gravimetrically after removal of uncombined water.

2.1 Sampling Train. A schematic of the exhaust of the exhaust gas recycle (EGR) train is shown in Figure 1 of this method.

2.1.1 Nozzle with Recycle Attachment. Stainless steel (316 or equivalent) with a sharp tapered leading edge, and recycle attachment welded directly on the side of the nozzle (see schematic in Figure 2 of this method). The angle of the taper shall be on the outside. Use only straight sampling nozzles. "Gooseneck" or other nozzle extensions designed to turn the sample gas flow 90&#xB0;, as in Method 5 are not acceptable. Locate a thermocouple in the recycle attachment to measure the temperature of the recycle gas as shown in Figure 3 of this method. The recycle attachment shall be made of stainless steel and shall be connected to the probe and nozzle with stainless steel fittings. Two nozzle sizes, e.g., 0.125 and 0.160 in., should be available to allow isokinetic sampling to be conducted over a range of flow rates. Calibrate each nozzle as described in Method 5, Section 5.1.

2.1.2 PMSizer. Cyclone, meeting the specifications in Section 5.7 of this method.

2.1.3 Filter Holder. 63mm, stainless steel. An Andersen filter, part number SE274, has been found to be acceptable for the in-stack filter.

2.1.4 Pitot Tube. Same as in Method 5, Section 2.1.3. Attach the pitot to the pitot lines with stainless steel fittings and to the cyclone in a configuration similar to that shown in Figure 3 of this method. The pitot lines shall be made of heat resistant material and attached to the probe with stainless steel fittings.

2.1.5 EGR Probe. Stainless steel, 15.9-mm (-in.) ID tubing with a probe liner, stainless steel 9.53-mm (-in.) ID stainless steel recycle tubing, two 6.35-mm (-in.) ID stainless steel tubing for the pitot tube extensions, three thermocouple leads, and one power lead, all contained by stainless steel tubing with a diameter of approximately 51 mm (2.0 in.). Design considerations should include minimum weight construction materials sufficient for probe structural strength. Wrap the sample and recycle tubes with a heating tape to heat the sample and recycle gases to stack temperature.

2.1.6 Condenser. Same as in Method 5, Section 2.1.7.

2.1.7 Umbilical Connector. Flexible tubing with thermocouple and power leads of sufficient length to connect probe to meter and flow control console.

2.1.8 Vacuum Pump. Leak-tight, oil-less, noncontaminating, with an absolute filter, "HEPA" type, at the pump exit. A Gast Model 0522-V103 G18DX pump has been found to be satisfactory.

2.1.9 Meter and Flow Control Console. System consisting of a dry gas meter and calibrated orifice for measuring sample flow rate and capable of measuring volume to +/-2 percent, calibrated laminar flow elements (LFE's) or equivalent for measuring total and sample flow rates, probe heater control, and manometers and magnehelic gauges (as shown in Figures 4 and 5 of this method), or equivalent. Temperatures needed for calculations include stack, recycle, probe, dry gas meter, filter, and total flow. Flow measurements include velocity head (Δp), orifice differential pressure (ΔH), total flow, recycle flow, and total back-pressure through the system.

2.1.10 Barometer. Same as in Method 5, Section 2.1.9.

2.1.11 Rubber Tubing. 6.35-mm (-in.) ID flexible rubber tubing.

2.2 Sample Recovery.

2.2.1 Nozzle, Cyclone, and Filter Holder Brushes. Nylon bristle brushes property sized and shaped for cleaning the nozzle, cyclone, filter holder, and probe or probe liner, with stainless steel wire shafts and handles.

2.2.2 Wash Bottles, Glass Sample Storage Containers, Petri Dishes, Graduated Cylinder and Balance, Plastic Storage Containers, and Funnels. Same as Method 5, Sections 2.2.2 through 2.2.6 and 2.2.8, respectively.

2.3 Analysis. Same as in Method 5, Section 2.3.

The reagents used in sampling, sample recovery, and analysis are the same as that specified in Method 5, Sections 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3, respectively.

4.1 Sampling. The complexity of this method is such that, in order to obtain reliable results, testers should be trained and experienced with the test procedures.

4.1.1 Pretest Preparation. Same as in Method 5, Section 4.1.1.

4.1.2 Preliminary Determinations. Same as Method 5, Section 4.1.2, except use the directions on nozzle size selection in this section. Use of the EGR method may require a minimum sampling port diameter of 0.2 m (6 in.). Also, the required maximum number of sample traverse points at any location shall be 12.

4.1.2.1 The cyclone and filter holder must be in-stack or at stack temperature during sampling. The blockage effects of the EGR sampling assembly will be minimal if the cross-sectional area of the sampling assembly is 3 percent or less of the cross-sectional area of the duct and a pitot coefficient of 0.84 may be assigned to the pitot. If the cross-sectional area of the assembly is greater than 3 percent of the cross-sectional area of the duct, then either determine the pitot coefficient at sampling conditions or use a standard pitot with a known coefficient in a configuration with the EGR sampling assembly such that flow disturbances are minimized.

4.1.2.2 Construct a setup of pressure drops for various Δp's and temperatures. A computer is useful for these calculations. An example of the output of the EGR setup program is shown in Figure 6 of this method, and directions on its use are in section 4.1.5.2 of this method. Computer programs, written in IBM BASIC computer language, to do these types of setup and reduction calculations for the EGR procedure, are available through the National Technical Information Services (NTIS), Accession number PB90-500000, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.

4.1.2.3 The EGR setup program allows the tester to select the nozzle size based on anticipated average stack conditions and prints a setup sheet for field use. The amount of recycle through the nozzle should be between 10 and 80 percent. Inputs for the EGR setup program are stack temperature (minimum, maximum, and average), stack velocity (minimum, maximum, and average), atmospheric pressure, stack static pressure, meter box temperature, stack moisture, percent 0, and percent COin the stack gas, pitot coefficient (C), orifice Δ H, flow rate measurement calibration values [slope (m) and y-intercept (b) of the calibration curve], and the number of nozzles available and their diameters.
