
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### Applications Guide for Source PM,Exhaust Gas Recycle Sampling System.

4.1.2.4 A less rigorous calculation for the setup sheet can be done manually using the equations on the example worksheets in Figures 7, 8, and 9 of this method, or by a Hewlett-Packard HP41 calculator using the program provided in appendix D of the EGR operators manual, entitledThis calculation uses an approximation of the total flow rate and agrees within 1 percent of the exact solution for pressure drops at stack temperatures from 38 to 260 &#xB0;C (100 to 500 &#xB0;F) and stack moisture up to 50 percent. Also, the example worksheets use a constant stack temperature in the calculation, ingoring the complicated temperature dependence from all three pressure drop equations. Errors for this at stack temperatures +/-28 &#xB0;C (+/-50 &#xB0;F) of the temperature used in the setup calculations are within 5 percent for flow rate and within 5 percent for cyclone cut size.

4.1.2.5 The pressure upstream of the LFE's is assumed to be constant at 0.6 in. Hg in the EGR setup calculations.

4.1.2.6 The setup sheet constructed using this procedure shall be similar to Figure 6 of this method. Inputs needed for the calculation are the same as for the setup computer except that stack velocities are not needed.

4.1.3 Preparation of Collection Train. Same as in Method 5, Section 4.1.3, except use the following directions to set up the train.

4.1.3.1 Assemble the EGR sampling device, and attach it to probe as shown in Figure 3 of this method. If stack temperatures exceed 260 &#xB0;C (500 &#xB0;F), then assemble the EGR cyclone without the O-ring and reduce the vacuum requirement to 130 mm Hg (5.0 in. Hg) in the leak-check procedure in Section 4.1.4.3.2 of this method.

4.1.3.2 Connect the proble directly to the filter holder and condenser as in Method 5. Connect the condenser and probe to the meter and flow control console with the umbilical connector. Plug in the pump and attach pump lines to the meter and flow control console.

4.1.4 Leak-Check Procedure. The leak-check for the EGR Method consists of two parts: the sample-side and the recycle-side. The sample-side leak-check is required at the beginning of the run with the cyclone attached, and after the run with the cyclone removed. The cyclone is removed before the post-test leak-check to prevent any disturbance of the collected sample prior to analysis. The recycle-side leak-check tests the leak tight integrity of the recycle components and is required prior to the first test run and after each shipment.

4.1.4.1 Pretest Leak-Check. A pretest leak-check of the entire sample-side, including the cyclone and nozzle, is required. Use the leak-check procedure in Section 4.1.4.3 of this method to conduct a pretest leak-check.

4.1.4.2 Leak-Checks During Sample Run. Same as in Method 5, Section 4.1.4.1.

4.1.4.3 Post-Test Leak-Check. A leak-check is required at the conclusion of each sampling run. Remove the cyclone before the leak-check to prevent the vacuum created by the cooling of the probe from disturbing the collected sample and use the following procedure to conduct a post-test leak-check.

4.1.4.3.1 The sample-side leak-check is performed as follows: After removing the cyclone, seal the probe with a leak-tight stopper. Before starting pump, close the coarse total valve and both recycle valves, and open completely the sample back pressure valve and the fine total valve. After turning the pump on, partially open the coarse total valve slowly to prevent a surge in the manometer. Adjust the vacuum to at least 381 mm Hg (15.0 in. Hg) with the fine total valve. If the desired vacuum is exceeded, either leak-check at this higher vacuum or end the leak-check as shown below and start over.

Do not decrease the vacuum with any of the valves. This may cause a rupture of the filter.

4.1.4.3.2 Leak rates in excess of 0.00057 m/min (0.020 ft/min) are unacceptable. If the leak rate is too high, void the sampling run.

4.1.4.3.3 To complete the leak-check, slowly remove the stopper from the nozzle until the vacuum is near zero, then immediately turn off the pump. This procedure sequence prevents a pressure surge in the manometer fluid and rupture of the filter.

4.1.4.3.4 The recycle-side leak-check is performed as follows: Close the coarse and fine total valves and sample back pressure valve. Plug the sample inlet at the meter box. Turn on the power and the pump, close the recycle valves, and open the total flow valves. Adjust the total flow fine adjust valve until a vacuum of 25 inches of mercury is achieved. If the desired vacuum is exceeded, either leak-check at this higher vacuum, or end the leak-check and start over. Minimum acceptable leak rates are the same as for the sample-side. If the leak rate is too high, void the sampling run.

4.1.5 EGR Train Operation. Same as in Method 5, Section 4.1.5, except omit references to nomographs and recommendations about changing the filter assembly during a run.

4.1.5.1 Record the data required on a data sheet such as the one shown in Figure 10 of this method. Make periodic checks of the manometer level and zero to ensure correct ΔH and Δp values. An acceptable procedure for checking the zero is to equalize the pressure at both ends of the manometer by pulling off the tubing, allowing the fluid to equilibrate and, if necessary, to re-zero. Maintain the probe temperature to within 11 &#xB0;C (20 &#xB0;F) of stack temperature.

4.1.5.2 The procedure for using the example EGR setup sheet is as follows: Obtain a stack velocity reading from the pitot manometer (Δp), and find this value on the ordinate axis of the setup sheet. Find the stack temperature on the abscissa. Where these two values intersect are the differential pressures necessary to achieve isokineticity and 10 µm cut size (interpolation may be necessary).

4.1.5.3 The top three numbers are differential pressures (in. HO), and the bottom number is the percent recycle at these flow settings. Adjust the total flow rate valves, coarse and fine, to the sample value (ΔH) on the setup sheet, and the recycle flow rate valves, coarse and fine, to the recycle flow on the setup sheet.

4.1.5.4 For startup of the EGR sample train, the following procedure is recommended. Preheat the cyclone in the stack for 30 minutes. Close both the sample and recycle coarse valves. Open the fine total, fine recycle, and sample back pressure valves halfway. Ensure that the nozzle is properly aligned with the sample stream. After noting the Δp and stack temperature, select the appropriate ΔH and recycle from the EGR setup sheet. Start the pump and timing device simultaneously. Immediately open both the coarse total and the coarse recycle valves slowly to obtain the approximate desired values. Adjust both the fine total and the fine recycle valves to achieve more precisely the desired values. In the EGR flow system, adjustment of either valve will result in a change in both total and recycle flow rates, and a slight iteration between the total and recycle valves may be necessary. Because the sample back pressure valve controls the total flow rate through the system, it may be necessary to adjust this valve in order to obtain the correct flow rate.

4.1.5.5 During the test run, monitor the probe and filter temperatures periodically, and make adjustments as necessary to maintain the desired temperatures. If the sample loading is high, the filter may begin to blind or the cyclone may clog. The filter or the cyclone may be replaced during the sample run. Before changing the filter or cyclone, conduct a leak-check (Section 4.1.4.2 of this method). The total particulate mass shall be the sum of all cyclone and the filter catch during the run. Monitor stack temperature and Δp periodically, and make the necessary adjustments in sampling and recycle flow rates to maintain isokinetic sampling and the proper flow rate through the cyclone. At the end of the run, turn off the pump, close the coarse total valve, and record the final dry gas meter reading. Remove the probe from the stack, and conduct a post-test leak-check as outlined in Section 4.1.4.3 of this method.

4.2 Sample Recovery. Allow the probe to cool. When the probe can be safely handled, wipe off all external PM adhering to the outside of the nozzle, cyclone, and nozzle attachment, and place a cap over the nozzle to prevent losing or gaining PM. Do not cap the nozzle tip tightly while the sampling train is cooling, as this action would create a vacuum in the filter holder. Disconnect the probe from the umbilical connector, and take the probe to the cleanup site. Sample recovery should be conducted in a dry indoor area or, if outside, in an area protected from wind and free of dust. Cap the ends of the impingers and carry them to the cleanup site. Inspect the components of the train prior to and during disassembly to note any abnormal conditions. Disconnect the pitot from the cyclone. Remove the cyclone from the probe. Recover the sample as follows:
