
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### Impinger Water.

4.2.5Same as in Method 5, Section 4.2, under "Impinger Water."

4.3 Analysis. Same as in Method 5, Section 4.3, except handle EGR Container Numbers 1 and 2 like Container Number 1 in Method 5, EGR Container Numbers 3, 4, and 5 like Container Number 3 in Method 5, and EGR Container Number 6 like Container Number 3 in Method 5. Use Figure 11 of this method to record the weights of PM collected.

4.4 Quality Control Procedures. Same as in Method 5, Section 4.4.

4.5 PMEmission Calculation and Acceptability of Results. Use the EGR reduction program or the procedures in section 6 of this method to calculate PMemissions and the criteria in section 6.7 of this method to determine the acceptability of the results.

Maintain an accurate laboratory log of all calibrations.

5.1 Probe Nozzle. Same as in Method 5, Section 5.1.

5.2 Pitot Tube. Same as in Method 5, Section 5.2.

5.3 Meter and Flow Control Console.

5.3.1 Dry Gas Meter. Same as in Method 5, Section 5.3.

5.3.2 LFE Gauges. Calibrate the recycle, total, and inlet total LFE gauges with a manometer. Read and record flow rates at 10, 50, and 90 percent of full scale on the total and recycle pressure gauges. Read and record flow rates at 10, 20, and 30 percent of full scale on the inlet total LFE pressure gauge. Record the total and recycle readings to the nearest 0.3 mm (0.01 in.). Record the inlet total LFE readings to the nearest 3 mm (0.1 in.). Make three separate measurements at each setting and calculate the average. The maximum difference between the average pressure reading and the average manometer reading shall not exceed 1 mm (0.05 in.). If the differences exceed the limit specified, adjust or replace the pressure gauge. After each field use, check the calibration of the pressure gauges.

5.3.3 Total LFE. Same as the metering system in Method 5, Section 5.3.

5.3.4 Recycle LFE. Same as the metering system in Method 5, Section 5.3, except completely close both the coarse and fine recycle valves.

5.4 Probe Heater. Connect the probe to the meter and flow control console with the umbilical connector. Insert a thermocouple into the probe sample line approximately half the length of the probe sample line. Calibrate the probe heater at 66 &#xB0;C (150 &#xB0;F), 121 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F), and 177 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F). Turn on the power, and set the probe heater to the specified temperature. Allow the heater to equilibrate, and record the thermocouple temperature and the meter and flow control console temperature to the nearest 0.5 &#xB0;C (1 &#xB0;F). The two temperatures should agree within 5.5 &#xB0;C (10 &#xB0;F). If this agreement is not met, adjust or replace the probe heater controller.

5.5 Temperature Gauges. Connect all thermocouples, and let the meter and flow control console equilibrate to ambient temperature. All thermocouples shall agree to within 1.1 &#xB0;C (2.0 &#xB0;F) with a standard mercury-in-glass thermometer. Replace defective thermocouples.

5.6 Barometer. Calibrate against a standard mercury-in-glass barometer.
