
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### Application Guide for the Source PM,Exhaust Gas Recycle Sampling System,

5.7 Probe Cyclone and Nozzle Combinations. The probe cyclone and nozzle combinations need not be calibrated if the cyclone meets the design specifications in Figure 12 of this method and the nozzle meets the design specifications in appendix B of theEPA/600/3-88-058. This document may be obtained from Roy Huntley at (919) 541-1060. If the nozzles do not meet the design specifications, then test the cyclone and nozzle combination for conformity with the performance specifications (PS's) in Table 1 of this method. The purpose of the PS tests is to determine if the cyclone's sharpness of cut meets minimum performance criteria. If the cyclone does not meet design specifications, then, in addition to the cyclone and nozzle combination conforming to the PS's, calibrate the cyclone and determine the relationship between flow rate, gas viscosity, and gas density. Use the procedures in Section 5.7.5 of this method to conduct PS tests and the procedures in Section 5.8 of this method to calibrate the cyclone. Conduct the PS tests in a wind tunnel described in Section 5.7.1 of this method and using a particle generation system described in Section 5.7.2 of this method. Use five particle sizes and three wind velocities as listed in Table 2 of this method. Perform a minimum of three replicate measurements of collection efficiency for each of the 15 conditions listed, for a minimum of 45 measurements.

5.7.1 Wind Tunnel. Perform calibration and PS tests in a wind tunnel (or equivalent test apparatus) capable of establishing and maintaining the required gas stream velocities within 10 percent.

5.7.2 Particle Generation System. The particle generation system shall be capable of producing solid monodispersed dye particles with the mass median aerodynamic diameters specified in Table 2 of this method. The particle size distribution verification should be performed on an integrated sample obtained during the sampling period of each test. An acceptable alternative is to verify the size distribution of samples obtained before and after each test, with both samples required to meet the diameter and monodispersity requirements for an acceptable test run.

5.7.2.1 Establish the size of the solid dye particles delivered to the test section of the wind tunnel using the operating parameters of the particle generation system, and verify the size during the tests by microscopic examination of samples of the particles collected on a membrane filter. The particle size, as established by the operating parameters of the generation system, shall be within the tolerance specified in Table 2 of this method. The precision of the particle size verification technique shall be at least +/-0.5 µm, and the particle size determined by the verification technique shall not differ by more than 10 percent from that established by the operating parameters of the particle generation system.

5.7.2.2 Certify the monodispersity of the particles for each test either by microscopic inspection of collected particles on filters or by other suitable monitoring techniques such as an optical particle counter followed by a multichannel pulse height analyzer. If the proportion of multiplets and satellites in an aerosol exceeds 10 percent by mass, the particle generation system is unacceptable for purposes of this test. Multiplets are particles that are agglomerated, and satellites are particles that are smaller than the specified size range.

5.7.3 Schematic Drawings. Schematic drawings of the wind tunnel and blower system and other information showing complete procedural details of the test atmosphere generation, verification, and delivery techniques shall be furnished with calibration data to the reviewing agency.

5.7.4 Flow Rate Measurement. Determine the cyclone flow rates with a dry gas meter and a stopwatch, or a calibrated orifice system capable of measuring flow rates to within 2 percent.

5.7.5 Performance Specification Procedure. Establish the test particle generator operation and verify the particle size microscopically. If mondispersity is to be verified by measurements at the beginning and the end of the run rather than by an integrated sample, these measurements may be made at this time.

5.7.5.1 The cyclone cut size (D) is defined as the aerodynamic diameter of a particle having a 50 percent probability of penetration. Determine the required cyclone flow rate at which Dis 10 µm. A suggested procedure is to vary the cyclone flow rate while keeping a constant particle size of 10 µm. Measure the PM collected in the cyclone (m), exit tube (m), and filter (m). Compute the cyclone efficiency (E) as follows:

5.7.5.2 Perform three replicates and calculate the average cyclone efficiency as follows:

5.7.5.3 Calculate the standard deviation (&#x3C3;) for the replicate measurements of Eas follows:

5.7.5.4 Using the cyclone flow rate that produces Dfor 10 µm, measure the overall efficiency of the cyclone and nozzle, E, at the particle sizes and nominal gas velocities in Table 2 of this method using this following procedure.

5.7.5.5 Set the air velocity in the wind tunnel to one of the nominal gas velocities from Table 2 of this method. Establish isokinetic sampling conditions and the correct flow rate through the sampler (cyclone and nozzle) using recycle capacity so that the Dis 10 µm. Sample long enough to obtain +/-5 percent precision on the total collected mass as determined by the precision and the sensitivity of the measuring technique. Determine separately the nozzle catch (m), cyclone catch (m), cyclone exit tube catch (m), and collection filter catch (m).

5.7.5.6 Calculate the overall efficiency (E) as follows:

5.7.5.7 Do three replicates for each combination of gas velocities and particle sizes in Table 2 of this method. Calculate Efor each particle size following the procedures described in this section for determining efficiency. Calculate the standard deviation (&#x3C3;) for the replicate measurements. If &#x3C3; exceeds 0.10, repeat the replicate runs.

5.7.6 Criteria for Acceptance. For each of the three gas stream velocities, plot the average Eas a function of particle size on Figure 13 of this method. Draw a smooth curve for each velocity through all particle sizes. The curve shall be within the banded region for all sizes, and the average Efor a Dfor 10 µm shall be 50 +/-0.5 percent.

5.8 Cyclone Calibration Procedure. The purpose of this section is to develop the relationship between flow rate, gas viscosity, gas density, and D. This procedure only needs to be done on those cyclones that do not meet the design specifications in Figure 12 of this method.

5.8.1 Calculate cyclone flow rate. Determine the flow rates and D's for three different particle sizes between 5 µm and 15 µm, one of which shall be 10 µm. All sizes must be within 0.5 µm. For each size, use a different temperature within 60 &#xB0;C (108 &#xB0;F) of the temperature at which the cyclone is to be used and conduct triplicate runs. A suggested procedure is to keep the particle size constant and vary the flow rate. Some of the values obtained in the PS tests in Section 5.7.5 may be used.

5.8.1.1 On log-log graph paper, plot the Reynolds number (Re) on the abscissa, and the square root of the Stokes 50 number [(STK)] on the ordinate for each temperature. Use the following equations:

5.8.1.2 Use a linear regression analysis to determine the slope (m), and the y-intercept (b). Use the following formula to determine Q, the cyclone flow rate required for a cut size of 10 µm.

5.8.2. Directions for Using Q. Refer to Section 5 of the EGR operators manual for directions in using this expression for Q in the setup calculations.

6.1 The EGR data reduction calculations are performed by the EGR reduction computer program, which is written in IBM BASIC computer language and is available through NTIS, Accession number PB90-500000, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia 22161. Examples of program inputs and outputs are shown in Figure 14 of this method.

6.1.1 Calculations can also be done manually, as specified in Method 5, Sections 6.3 through 6.7, and 6.9 through 6.12, with the addition of the following:

6.1.2 Nomenclature.

6.2 PMParticulate Weight. Determine the weight of PMby summing the weights obtained from Container Numbers 1 and 3, less the acetone blank.

6.3 Total Particulate Weight. Determine the particulate catch for PM greater than PMfrom the weight obtained from Container Number 2 less the acetone blank, and add it to the PMparticulate weight.

6.4 PMFraction. Determine the PMfraction of the total particulate weight by dividing the PMparticulate weight by the total particulate weight.

6.5 Total Cyclone Flow Rate. The average flow rate at standard conditions is determined from the average pressure drop across the total LFE and is calculated as follows:

The flow rate, at actual cyclone conditions, is calculated as follows:

The flow rate, at actual cyclone conditions, is calculated as follows:

6.6 Aerodynamic Cut Size. Use the following procedure to determine the aerodynamic cut size (D).

6.6.1 Determine the water fraction of the mixed gas through the cyclone by using the equation below.

6.6.2 Calculate the cyclone gas viscosity as follows:

6.6.3 Calculate the molecular weight on a wet basis of the cyclone gas as follows:

6.6.4 If the cyclone meets the design specification in Figure 12 of this method, calculate the actual Dof the cyclone for the run as follows:

6.6.5 If the cyclone does not meet the design specifications in Figure 12 of this method, then use the following equation to calculate D.

6.7 Acceptable Results. Acceptability of anisokinetic variation is the same as Method 5, Section 6.12.

6.7.1 If 9.0 µm &#x2264;D&#x2264;11 µm and 90 &#x2264;I &#x2264;110, the results are acceptable. If Dis greater than 11 µm, the Administrator may accept the results. If Dis less than 9.0 µm, reject the results and repeat the test.

1. Same as Bibliography in Method 5.

2. McCain, J.D., J.W. Ragland, and A.D. Williamson. Recommended Methodology for the Determination of Particles Size Distributions in Ducted Sources, Final Report. Prepared for the California Air Resources Board by Southern Research Institute. May 1986.

3. Farthing, W.E., S.S. Dawes, A.D. Williamson, J.D. McCain, R.S. Martin, and J.W. Ragland. Development of Sampling Methods for Source PM-10 Emissions. Southern Research Institute for the Environmental Protection Agency. April 1989.
