
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### Applicability.,i.e.,

1.2This method addresses the equipment, preparation, and analysis necessary to measure filterable PM. You can use this method to measure filterable PM from stationary sources only. Filterable PM is collected in stack with this method (the method measures materials that are solid or liquid at stack conditions). If the gas filtration temperature exceeds 29.4 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F), then you may use the procedures in this method to measure only filterable PM (material that does not pass through a filter or a cyclone/filter combination). If the gas filtration temperature exceeds 29.4 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F), and you must measure both the filterable and condensable (material that condenses after passing through a filter) components of total primary (direct) PM emissions to the atmosphere, then you must combine the procedures in this method with the procedures in Method 202 of appendix M to this part for measuring condensable PM. However, if the gas filtration temperature never exceeds 29.4 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F), then use of Method 202 of appendix M to this part is not required to measure total primary PM.

1.3 Responsibility. You are responsible for obtaining the equipment and supplies you will need to use this method. You must also develop your own procedures for following this method and any additional procedures to ensure accurate sampling and analytical measurements.

1.4 Additional Methods. To obtain results, you must have a thorough knowledge of the following test methods found in appendices A-1 through A-3 of 40 CFR part 60:

(a) Method 1-Sample and velocity traverses for stationary sources.

(b) Method 2-Determination of stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate (Type S pitot tube).

(c) Method 3-Gas analysis for the determination of dry molecular weight.

(d) Method 4-Determination of moisture content in stack gases.

(e) Method 5-Determination of particulate matter emissions from stationary sources.

1.5 Limitations. You cannot use this method to measure emissions in which water droplets are present because the size separation of the water droplets may not be representative of the dry particle size released into the air. To measure filterable PMand PMin emissions where water droplets are known to exist, we recommend that you use Method 5 of appendix A-3 to part 60. Because of the temperature limit of the O-rings used in this sampling train, you must follow the procedures in Section 8.6.1 to test emissions from stack gas temperatures exceeding 205 &#xB0;C (400 &#xB0;F).
