
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### http://cfpub.epa.gov/ols

6.1.2.2 You may use alternative particle sizing devices if they meet the requirements in Development and Laboratory Evaluation of a Five-Stage Cyclone System, EPA-600/7-78-008 ().

6.1.3 Filter Holder. Use a filter holder that is stainless steel (316 or equivalent). A heated glass filter holder may be substituted for the steel filter holder when filtration is performed out-of-stack. Commercial-size filter holders are available depending upon project requirements, including commercial stainless steel filter holders to support 25-, 47-, 63-, 76-, 90-, 101-, and 110-mm diameter filters. Commercial size filter holders contain a fluoropolymer O-ring, a stainless steel screen that supports the particulate filter, and a final fluoropolymer O-ring. Screw the assembly together and attach to the outlet of cyclone IV. The filter must not be compressed between the fluoropolymer O-ring and the filter housing.

6.1.4 Pitot Tube. You must use a pitot tube made of heat resistant tubing. Attach the pitot tube to the probe with stainless steel fittings. Follow the specifications for the pitot tube and its orientation to the inlet nozzle given in Section 6.1.1.3 of Method 5 of appendix A-3 to part 60.

6.1.5 Probe Extension and Liner. The probe extension must be glass- or fluoropolymer-lined. Follow the specifications in Section 6.1.1.2 of Method 5 of appendix A-3 to part 60. If the gas filtration temperature never exceeds 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F), then the probe may be constructed of stainless steel without a probe liner and the extension is not recovered as part of the PM.

6.1.6 Differential Pressure Gauge, Condensers, Metering Systems, Barometer, and Gas Density Determination Equipment. Follow the requirements in Sections 6.1.1.4 through 6.1.3 of Method 5 of appendix A-3 to part 60, as applicable.

6.2 Sample Recovery Equipment.

6.2.1 Filterable Particulate Recovery. Use the following equipment to quantitatively determine the amount of filterable PM recovered from the sampling train.

(a) Cyclone and filter holder brushes.

(b) Wash bottles. Two wash bottles are recommended. Any container material is acceptable, but wash bottles used for sample and blank recovery must not contribute more than 0.1 mg of residual mass to the CPM measurements.

(c) Leak-proof sample containers. Containers used for sample and blank recovery must not contribute more than 0.05 mg of residual mass to the CPM measurements.

(d) Petri dishes. For filter samples; glass, polystyrene, or polyethylene, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.

(e) Graduated cylinders. To measure condensed water to within 1 ml or 0.5 g. Graduated cylinders must have subdivisions not greater than 2 ml.

(f) Plastic storage containers. Air-tight containers to store silica gel.

6.2.2 Analysis Equipment.

(a) Funnel. Glass or polyethylene, to aid in sample recovery.

(b) Rubber policeman. To aid in transfer of silica gel to container; not necessary if silica gel is weighed in the field.

(c) Analytical balance. Analytical balance capable of weighing at least 0.0001 g (0.1 mg).

(d) Balance. To determine the weight of the moisture in the sampling train components, use an analytical balance accurate to +/-0.5 g.

(e) Fluoropolymer beaker liners.

7.0 Reagents, Standards, and Sampling Media

7.1 Sample Collection. To collect a sample, you will need a filter and silica gel. You must also have water and crushed ice. These items must meet the following specifications.

7.1.1 Filter. Use a nonreactive, nondisintegrating glass fiber, quartz, or polymer filter that does not a have an organic binder. The filter must also have an efficiency of at least 99.95 percent (less than 0.05 percent penetration) on 0.3 micrometer dioctyl phthalate particles. You may use test data from the supplier's quality control program to document the PM filter efficiency.

7.1.2 Silica Gel. Use an indicating-type silica gel of 6 to 16 mesh. You must obtain approval from the regulatory authority that established the requirement to use this test method to use other types of desiccants (equivalent or better) before you use them. Allow the silica gel to dry for two hours at 175 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) if it is being reused. You do not have to dry new silica gel if the indicator shows the silica is active for moisture collection.

7.1.3 Crushed Ice. Obtain from the best readily available source.

7.1.4 Water. Use deionized, ultra-filtered water that contains 1.0 part per million by weight (1 milligram/liter) residual mass or less to recover and extract samples.

7.2 Sample Recovery and Analytical Reagents. You will need acetone and anhydrous calcium sulfate for the sample recovery and analysis. Unless otherwise indicated, all reagents must conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society. If such specifications are not available, then use the best available grade. Additional information on each of these items is in the following paragraphs.
