
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 233 - 404 STATE PROGRAM REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Program Approval
###### ยง 233.15 Procedures for approving State programs.

(a) The 120 day statutory review period shall commence on the date of receipt of a complete State program submission as set out in ยง 233.10 of this part. EPA shall determine whether the submission is complete within 30 days of receipt of the submission and shall notify the State of its determination. If EPA finds that a State's submission is incomplete, the statutory review period shall not begin until all the necessary information is received by EPA.

(b) If EPA determines the State significantly changes its submission during the review period, the statutory review period shall begin again upon the receipt of a revised submission.

(c) The State and EPA may extend the statutory review period by agreement.

(d) Within 10 days of receipt of a complete State section 404 program submission, the Regional Administrator shall provide copies of the State's submission to the Corps, FWS, and NMFS (both Headquarters and appropriate Regional organizations.)

(e) After determining that a State program submission is complete, the Regional Administrator shall publish notice of the State's application in theand in enough of the largest newspapers in the State to attract statewide attention. The Regional Administrator shall also mail notice to persons known to be interested in such matters. Existing State, EPA, Corps, FWS, and NMFS mailing lists shall be used as a basis for this mailing. However, failure to mail all such notices shall not be grounds for invalidating approval (or disapproval) of an otherwise acceptable (or unacceptable) program. This notice shall:

(1) Provide for a comment period of not less than 45 days during which interested members of the public may express their views on the State program.

(2) Provide for a public hearing within the State to be held not less than 30 days after notice of hearing is published in the

(3) Indicate where and when the State's submission may be reviewed by the public;

(4) Indicate whom an interested member of the public with questions should contact; and

(5) Briefly outline the fundamental aspects of the State's proposed program and the process for EPA review and decision.

(f) Within 90 days of EPA's receipt of a complete program submission, the Corps, FWS, and NMFS shall submit to EPA any comments on the State's program.

(g) Within 120 days of receipt of a complete program submission (unless an extension is agreed to by the State), the Regional Administrator shall approve or disapprove the program based on whether the State's program fulfills the requirements of this part and the Act, taking into consideration all comments received. The Regional Administrator shall prepare a responsiveness summary of significant comments received and his response to these comments. The Regional Administrator shall respond individually to comments received from the Corps, FWS, and NMFS.

(h) If the Regional Administrator approves the State's section 404 program, he shall notify the State and the Secretary of the decision and publish notice in theTransfer of the program to the State shall not be considered effective until such notice appears in theThe Secretary shall suspend the issuance by the Corps of section 404 permits in State regulated waters on such effective date.

(i) If the Regional Administrator disapproves the State's program based on the State not meeting the requirements of the Act and this part, the Regional Administrator shall notify the State of the reasons for the disapproval and of any revisions or modifications to the State's program which are necessary to obtain approval. If the State resubmits a program submission remedying the identified problem areas, the approval procedure and statutory review period shall begin upon receipt of the revised submission.
