
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 233 - 404 STATE PROGRAM REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Permit Requirements
###### ยง 233.22 Emergency permits.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the Director may issue a temporary emergency permit for a discharge of dredged or fill material if unacceptable harm to life or severe loss of physical property is likely to occur before a permit could be issued or modified under procedures normally required.

(b) Emergency permits shall incorporate, to the extent possible and not inconsistent with the emergency situation, all applicable requirements of ยง 233.23.

(1) Any emergency permit shall be limited to the duration of time (typically no more than 90 days) required to complete the authorized emergency action.

(2) The emergency permit shall have a condition requiring appropriate restoration of the site.

(c) The emergency permit may be terminated at any time without process (ยง 233.36) if the Director determines that termination is necessary to protect human health or the environment.

(d) The Director shall consult in an expeditious manner, such as by telephone, with the Regional Administrator, the Corps, FWS, and NMFS about issuance of an emergency permit.

(e) The emergency permit may be oral or written. If oral, it must be followed within 5 days by a written emergency permit. A copy of the written permit shall be sent to the Regional Administrator.

(f) Notice of the emergency permit shall be published and public comments solicited in accordance with ยง 233.32 as soon as possible but no later than 10 days after the issuance date.
