
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 233 - 404 STATE PROGRAM REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Program Operation
###### ยง 233.32 Public notice.

(a) Applicability.

(1) The Director shall give public notice of the following actions:

(i) Receipt of a permit application.

(ii) Preparation of a draft general permit.

(iii) Consideration of a major modification to an issued permit.

(iv) Scheduling of a public hearing.

(v) Issuance of an emergency permit.

(2) Public notices may describe more than one permit or action.

(b) Timing.

(1) The public notice shall provide a reasonable period of time, normally at least 30 days, within which interested parties may express their views concerning the permit application.

(2) Public notice of a public hearing shall be given at least 30 days before the hearing.

(3) The Regional Administrator may approve a program with shorter public notice timing if the Regional Administrator determines that sufficient public notice is provided for.

(c) The Director shall give public notice by each of the following methods:

(1) By mailing a copy of the notice to the following persons (any person otherwise entitled to receive notice under this paragraph may waive his rights to receive notice for any classes or categories of permits):

(i) The applicant.

(ii) Any agency with jurisdiction over the activity or the disposal site, whether or not the agency issues a permit.

(iii) Owners of property adjoining the property where the regulated activity will occur.

(iv) All persons who have specifically requested copies of public notices. (The Director may update the mailing list from time to time by requesting written indication of continued interest from those listed. The Director may delete from the list the name of any person who fails to respond to such a request.)

(v) Any State whose waters may be affected by the proposed discharge.

(2) In addition, by providing notice in at least one other way (such as advertisement in a newspaper of sufficient circulation) reasonably calculated to cover the area affected by the activity.

(d) All public notices shall contain at least the following information:

(1) The name and address of the applicant and, if different, the address or location of the activity(ies) regulated by the permit.

(2) The name, address, and telephone number of a person to contact for further information.

(3) A brief description of the comment procedures and procedures to request a public hearing, including deadlines.

(4) A brief description of the proposed activity, its purpose and intended use, so as to provide sufficient information concerning the nature of the activity to generate meaningful comments, including a description of the type of structures, if any, to be erected on fills, and a description of the type, composition and quantity of materials to be discharged.

(5) A plan and elevation drawing showing the general and specific site location and character of all proposed activities, including the size relationship of the proposed structures to the size of the impacted waterway and depth of water in the area.

(6) A paragraph describing the various evaluation factors, including the 404(b)(1) Guidelines or State-equivalent criteria, on which decisions are based.

(7) Any other information which would significantly assist interested parties in evaluating the likely impact of the proposed activity.

(e) Notice of public hearing shall also contain the following information:

(1) Time, date, and place of hearing.

(2) Reference to the date of any previous public notices relating to the permit.

(3) Brief description of the nature and purpose of the hearing.
