
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 233 - 404 STATE PROGRAM REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Permit Requirements
###### ยง 233.21 General permits.

(a) Under section 404(h)(5) of the Act, States may, after program approval, administer and enforce general permits previously issued by the Secretary in State regulated waters.

(b) The Director may issue a general permit for categories of similar activities if he determines that the regulated activities will cause only minimal adverse environmental effects when performed separately and will have only minimal cumulative adverse effects on the environment. Any general permit issued shall be in compliance with the section 404(b)(1) Guidelines.

(c) In addition to the conditions specified in ยง 233.23, each general permit shall contain:

(1) A specific description of the type(s) of activities which are authorized, including limitations for any single operation. The description shall be detailed enough to ensure that the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are met. (This paragraph supercedes ยง 233.23(c)(1) for general permits.)

(2) A precise description of the geographic area to which the general permit applies, including limitations on the type(s) of water where operations may be conducted sufficient to ensure that the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are met.

(d) Predischarge notification or other reporting requirements may be required by the Director on a permit-by-permit basis as appropriate to ensure that the general permit will comply with the requirement (section 404(e) of the Act) that the regulated activities will cause only minimal adverse environmental effects when performed separately and will have only minimal cumulative adverse effects on the environment.

(e) The Director may, without revoking the general permit, require any person authorized under a general permit to apply for an individual permit. This discretionary authority will be based on concerns for the aquatic environment including compliance with paragraph (b) of this section and the 404(b)(1) Guidelines (40 CFR part 230.)

(1) This provision in no way affects the legality of activities undertaken pursuant to the general permit prior to notification by the Director of such requirement.

(2) Once the Director notifies the discharger of his decision to exercise discretionary authority to require an individual permit, the discharger's activity is no longer authorized by the general permit.
