
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 233 - 404 STATE PROGRAM REGULATIONS
##### Subpart G - Eligible Indian Tribes
###### ยง 233.61 Determination of Tribal eligibility.

An Indian Tribe may apply to the Regional Administrator for a determination that it meets the statutory criteria which authorize EPA to treat the Tribe in a manner similar to that in which it treats a State, for purposes of the section 404 program. The application shall be concise and describe how the Indian Tribe will meet each of the requirements of ยง 233.60. The application should include the following information:

(a) A statement that the Tribe is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.

(b) A descriptive statement demonstrating that the Tribal governing body is currently carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area. This Statement should:

(1) Describe the form of the Tribal government.

(2) Describe the types of governmental functions currently performed by the Tribal governing body, such as, but not limited to, the exercise of police powers affecting (or relating to) the health, safety, and welfare of the affected population; taxation; and the exercise of the power of eminent domain; and

(3) Identify the source of the Tribal government's authority to carry out the governmental functions currently being performed.

(c)(1) A map or legal description of the area over which the Indian Tribe asserts regulatory authority pursuant to section 518(e)(2) of the CWA and ยง 233.60(c);

(2) A statement by the Tribal Attorney General (or equivalent official) which describes the basis for the Tribe's assertion under section 518(e)(2) (including the nature or subject matter of the asserted regulatory authority) which may include a copy of documents such as Tribal constitutions, by-laws, charters, executive orders, codes, ordinances, and/or resolutions which support the Tribe's assertion of authority;

(d) A narrative statement describing the capability of the Indian Tribe to administer an effective 404 permit program. The Statement may include:
