
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter H - Ocean Dumping
#### PART 233 - 404 STATE PROGRAM REGULATIONS
##### Subpart G - Eligible Indian Tribes
###### ยง 233.61 Determination of Tribal eligibility.
####### et seq.,et seq.

(1) A description of the Indian Tribe's previous management experience which may include the administration of programs and services authorized by the Indian Self Determination & Education Act (25 U.S.C. 450), The Indian Mineral Development Act (25 U.S.C. 2101), or the Indian Sanitation Facility Construction Activity Act (42 U.S.C. 2004a).

(2) A list of existing environmental or public health programs administered by the Tribal governing body, and a copy of related Tribal laws, regulations, and policies;

(3) A description of the entity (or entities) which exercise the executive, legislative, and judicial functions of the Tribal government.

(4) A description of the existing, or proposed, agency of the Indian Tribe which will assume primary responsibility for establishing and administering a section 404 dredge and fill permit program or plan which proposes how the Tribe will acquire additional administrative and technical expertise. The plan must address how the Tribe will obtain the funds to acquire the administrative and technical expertise.

(5) A description of the technical and administrative abilities of the staff to administer and manage an effective, environmentally sound 404 dredge and fill permit program.

(e) The Administrator may, at his discretion, request further documentation necessary to support a Tribal application.

(f) If the Administrator has previously determined that a Tribe has met the requirements for eligibility or for "treatment as a State" for programs authorized under the Safe Drinking Water Act or the Clean Water Act, then that Tribe need only provide additional information unique to the particular statute or program for which the Tribe is seeking additional authorization.
