
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 239 - REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE PERMIT PROGRAM DETERMINATION OF ADEQUACY
##### Subpart D - Adequacy Determination Procedures
###### § 239.11 Approval procedures for partial approval.
####### i.e.

(a) EPA may partially approve state permit programs that do not meet all of the requirements in § 239.6(e)(3) (, do not incorporate all of the relevant Subtitle D federal revised criteria). Such permit programs may be partially approved if:

(1) The appropriate Regional Administrator determines that the state's permit program largely meets the technical requirements of § 239.6 and meets all other requirements of this part;

(2) Changes to a specific part(s) of the state permit program are required in order for the state program to fully meet the requirements of § 239.6; and

(3) Provisions not included in the partially approved portions of the state permit program are clearly identifiable and separable subsets of the relevant Subtitle D federal revised criteria.

(b) A state applying for partial approval must include in its application a schedule to revise the necessary laws, regulations, and/or guidance to obtain full approval within two years of final approval of the partial permit program. The Regional Administrator and the State Director must agree to the schedule.

(c) The application for partial approval must fully meet the requirements of subparts B and C of this part.

(d) States with partially approved permit programs are only approved for those relevant provisions of the Subtitle D criteria included in the partial approval.

(e) Any partial approval adequacy determination made by the Regional Administrator pursuant to this section and § 239.10 shall expire two years from the effective date of the final partial program adequacy determination unless the Regional Administrator grants an extension. States seeking an extension must submit a request to the appropriate Regional Administrator, must provide good cause for missing the deadline, and must supply a new schedule to revise necessary laws, regulations, and/or guidance to obtain full approval. The appropriate Regional Administrator will decide if there is good cause and if the new schedule is realistic. If the Regional Administrator extends the expiration date, the Region will publish a document in thealong with the new expiration date. A state with partial approval shall submit an amended application meeting all of the requirements of this part and have that application approved by the two-year deadline or the amended date set by the Regional Administrator.

(f) The Regional Administrator will follow the adequacy determination procedures in § 239.10 for all initial applications for partial program approval and follow the adequacy determination procedures in § 239.12(f) for any amendments for approval for unapproved sections of the relevant Subtitle D federal revised criteria.
