
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 240 - GUIDELINES FOR THE THERMAL PROCESSING OF SOLID WASTES
##### Subpart B - Requirements and Recommended Procedures
###### ยง 240.203-2 Recommended procedures: Design.

(a) The types, amounts (by weight and volume), and characteristics of all solid wastes expected to be processed should be determined by survey and analysis. The gross calorific value of the solid wastes to be processed should be determined to serve as a basis for design.

(b) Resource recovery in the form of heat utilization or direct recovery of materials should be considered in the design.

(c) The facility should be designed to be compatible with the surrounding area, easy to maintain, and consistent with the land use of the area.

(d) Employee convenience facilities and plant maintenance facilities should be provided. Adequate lighting should be provided throughout the facility.

(e) The corrosive and erosive action of once-through and recirculated process waters should be controlled either by treating them or by using materials capable of withstanding the adverse effects of the waters.

(f) Facility design capacity should consider such items as waste quantity and characteristics, variations in waste generation, equipment downtime, and availability of alternate storage, processing, or disposal capability.

(g) Facility systems and subsystems should be designed to assure standby capability in the event of breakdown. Provision for standby water and power should also be considered.

(h) Instrumentation should be provided to determine such factors as: The weight of incoming and outgoing materials (the same scale system may be used for both); total combustion airflow rates; underfire and overfire airflows and the quantitative distribution of each; selected temperatures and pressures in the furnace, along gas passages, in the particulate collection device, and in the stack; electrical power and water consumption of critical units; and rate of operation. The smoke density, the concentration of carbon monoxide, or the concentration of hydrocarbons in the stack gases should be monitored. Measurement of the pH should be considered for effluent waters. Continuously recording instrumentation should be used as much as possible.

(i) Audible signals should be provided to alert operating personnel of critical operating unit malfunctions.

(j) Sampling capability should be designed into the facility so that each process stream can be sampled, and the utilities required to do so should be close at hand. The sampling sites should be so designed that personnel can sample safely without interfering with normal plant operations.

(k) A laboratory should be included in the design, or provision should be made for laboratory analyses to be performed by an outside source acceptable to the responsible agency.
