
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 243 - GUIDELINES FOR THE STORAGE AND COLLECTION OF RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE
##### Subpart B - Requirements and Recommended Procedures
###### ยง 243.200-2 Recommended procedures: Design.

(a) Reusable waste containers should be constructed of corrosion resistant metal or other material which will not absorb water, grease, or oil. The containers should be leakproof, including sides, seams, and bottoms, and be durable enough to withstand anticipated usage without rusting, cracking, or deforming in a manner that would impair serviceability. The interior of the container should be smooth without interior projections or rough seams which would make it difficult to clean or interfere with its emptying. The exterior of the container should be safe for handling with no cracks, holes, or jagged edges. Containers should be stored on a firm, level, well-drained surface which is large enough to accommodate all of the containers and which is maintained in a clean, spillage-free condition.

(1) Reusable waste containers which are emptied manually should have a capacity of no more than 35 gallons (132.51) in volume, unless they are mounted on casters and can be serviced by being rolled to the collection vehicle and tilted for emptying. The containers should be constructed with rounded edges and tapered sides with the larger diameter at the top of the container to facilitate discharge of the solid waste by gravity. Containers should have two handles or bails located directly opposite one another on the sides of the container. Containers should have covers which are tight-fitting to resist the intrusion of water and vectors, and should be equipped with a suitable handle. Containers should be designed so that they cannot be tipped over easily.

(2) Reusable waste containers which are emptied mechanically should be designed or equipped to prevent spillage or leakage during on-site storage, collection, or transport. The container should be easily cleanable and designed to allow easy access for depositing the waste and removing it by gravity or by mechanical means. The containers should be easily accessible to the collection vehicle in an area which can safely accommodate the dimensions and weight of the vehicle.

(b) Single-use plastic and paper bags should meet the National Sanitation Foundation Standard No. 31 for polyethylene refuse bags and Standard No. 32 for paper refuse bags, respectively. However, such bags do not need to have been certified by the National Sanitation Foundation. Single-use bags containing food wastes should be stored within the confines of a building or container between collection periods.
