
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 243 - GUIDELINES FOR THE STORAGE AND COLLECTION OF RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE
##### Subpart B - Requirements and Recommended Procedures
###### ยง 243.204-2 Recommended procedures: Operations.

(a) Records should be maintained detailing all costs (capital, operating, and maintenance) associated with the collection system. These records should be used for scheduling maintenance and replacement, for budgeting, and for system evaluation and comparison.

(b) The collection system should be reviewed on a regular schedule to assure that environmentally adequate, economical, and efficient service is maintained.

(c) Solid waste collection systems should be operated in a manner designed to minimize fuel consumption, including, but not limited to, the following procedures.

(1) Collection vehicle routes should be designed to minimize driving distances and delays.

(2) Collection vehicles should receive regular tuneups, tires should be maintained at recommended pressures, and compaction equipment should be serviced regularly to achieve the most efficient compaction.

(3) Compactor trucks should be used to reduce the number of trips to the disposal site.

(4) When the distance or travel time from collection routes to disposal sites is great, transfer stations should be used when cost effective.

(5) Residential solid waste containers which are serviced manually should be placed at the curb or alley for collection.

(6) For commercial wastes which do not contain food wastes, storage capacity should be increased in lieu of more frequent collection.
