
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 254 - PRIOR NOTICE OF CITIZEN SUITS
##### ยง 254.2 Service of notice.

(a) Notice of intent to file suit under subsection 7002(a)(1) of the Act shall be served upon an alleged violator of any permit, standard, regulation, condition, requirement, or order which has become effective under this Act in the following manner:

(1) If the alleged violator is a private individual or corporation, service of notice shall be accomplished by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to, or by personal service upon, the owner or site manager of the building, plant, installation, or facility alleged to be in violation. A copy of the notice shall be mailed to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the region in which the violation is alleged to have occurred, and the chief administrative officer of the solid waste management agency for the State in which the violation is alleged to have occurred. If the alleged violator is a corporation, a copy of the notice shall also be mailed to the registered agent, if any, of that corporation in the State in which such violation is alleged to have occurred.

(2) If the alleged violator is a State or local agency, service of notice shall be accomplished by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to, or by personal service upon, the head of that agency. A copy of the notice shall be mailed to the chief administrator of the solid waste management agency for the State in which the violation is alleged to have occurred, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the region in which the violation is alleged to have occurred.

(3) If the alleged violator is a Federal agency, service of notice shall be accomplished by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to, or by personal service upon, the head of the agency. A copy of the notice shall be mailed to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the region in which the violation is alleged to have occurred, the Attorney General of the United States, and the chief administrative officer of the solid waste management agency for the State in which the violation is alleged to have occurred.

(b) Service of notice of intent to file suit under subsection 7002(a)(2) of the Act shall be accomplished by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to, or by personal service upon, the Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460. A copy of the notice shall be mailed to the Attorney General of the United States.

(c) Notice given in accordance with the provisions of this part shall be considered to have been served on the date of receipt. If service was acomplished by mail, the date of receipt will be considered to be the date noted on the return receipt card.
