
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 255 - IDENTIFICATION OF REGIONS AND AGENCIES FOR SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart B - Criteria for Identifying Regions and Agencies
###### ยง 255.11 Criteria for identifying agencies.

The following criteria are intended to assist in the process of agency selection pursuant to section 4006(b) of the Act. They may also be useful in pointing out needed improvements in the qualifications of the selected agencies.

(a) Existing agencies with demonstrated satisfactory ability to plan, manage, or operate solid waste management services should be considered for planning and implementation responsibilities. Agencies which have completed planning that resulted in successful implementation of solid waste management facilities or services should be given priority consideration for future planning responsibilities when they otherwise meet these criteria.

(b) An agency to be identified as responsible for conducting regional solid waste management planning should:

(1) Be a representative organization composed of, or whose membership is composed of, individuals at least a majority of whom are elected officials of local governments or their designees having jurisdiction in the planning region.

(2) Have planning jurisdiction in the entire planning region.

(3) Be capable of having the planning process fully underway within 1 year after identification.

(4) Have established procedures for adoption, review, and revision of plans and resolution of major issues, including procedures for public participation in the planning process.

(5) Have appropriate experience and skills to perform all of its assigned responsibilities, including expertise for the particular waste type, processing or disposal technology, and functional area. (Attention is directed to OMB Circular No. A-95, paragraph 1.e., part IV of Attachment A which encourages the designation of established substate district comprehensive planning agencies as the agencies to carry out areawide planning assisted or required under any Federal program).

(c) In identifying agencies for solid waste management planning and implementation under section 4006 of the Act, the State should review the solid waste activities being conducted by water quality management planning agencies designated under section 208 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. Where feasible, identification of such agencies should be considered in the joint identification processes of subpart C of this part. There should be a formal means of coordination established with the State water quality management agencies.

(d) Planning objectives will influence agency selection. Distinctions may be made between policy planning and facility planning and between planning a single solid waste management system and comprehensive planning which addresses trade-offs among various media.

(e) For coordinating planning and implementation under the State plan, as required in section 4003(1)(c), consideration should be given to identifying one agency for both functions. Where separate planning and implementation agencies are selected, there should be some means to ensure implementation, such as State legislation or an interagency agreement that all constituent jurisdictions will abide by the plan. Furthermore, strong coordination should be established between the planning agency and the implementing agency. During the planning period, the implementation agency should have continual access to plan development processes. There should be an administrative procedure to resolve conflicts between planners and implementers.

(f) The agency responsible for carrying out the regional plan should be constituted with authority to implement the plan in its constituent jurisdictions.

(g) The need for a reliable volume of waste to supply disposal or recovery facilities should be addressed. The Agency providing such facilities whose member jurisdictions could choose whether or not to utilize the facility should analyze that need and consider methods such as franchising or public utility controls to assure an adequate supply.
