
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 255 - IDENTIFICATION OF REGIONS AND AGENCIES FOR SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart B - Criteria for Identifying Regions and Agencies
###### ยง 255.10 Criteria for identifying regions.

The following criteria are to assist in identifying regions pursuant to section 4006(a) of the Act.

(a) Geographic areas which have a history of cooperating to solve problems in environmental or other related matters should be considered.

(1) Regions encompassing existing regional, including countywide, systems or institutions, including those of the private sector, should be evaluated. Changes in their boundaries may be needed for economic viability or other reasons in keeping with the State plan.

(2) Boundary selection which would require the creation of new agencies should be considered only where necessary. The relationship among established agencies should be considered. Where institutional gaps or inadequacies are found, regions should be identified keeping in mind which agencies would be able to fill those needs.

(b) The size and location of regions should permit resource recovery and conservation in accordance with the objectives in section 4001 of the Act.

(1) A region's size and configuration should be considered, weighing transportation costs against economies of scale.

(2) Left-over regions having inadequate resources or volumes of waste should be avoided.

(3) Location should be considered relative to available transportation and to markets for recovered resources.

(c) The volume of wastes within a region will influence the technology choices for recovery and disposal, determine economies of scale, and affect marketability of resources recovered. A region should include sufficient volume of waste to support the goals and objectives of the State plan, including materials or energy recovery as appropriate.

(d) Waste type should be considered since it also affects management options. Industrial or hazardous waste streams may warrant special consideration or special boundaries.

(e) The effect of geologic and hydrologic conditions, such as soil suitability, land availability, natural barriers (rivers and mountains), the quantity and availability of water resources, and the susceptibility of ground water to contamination should be considered. Aquifer protection in accordance with State water quality management plans and policies could influence boundary selection.

(f) Coordination with ongoing planning for other purposes may be an influence in selecting boundaries.

(1) The local and regional planning process should be integrated into the State planning process.

(2) Use of a common data base should be encouraged among transportation, land use, and other planning areas.

(3) To the extent practicable, coterminous planning regions should be encouraged, and larger regions should be multiples of whole smaller regions.

(4) Coordination should be provided with those agencies designated for water quality management planning under section 208 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, with underground injection control agencies designated in accordance with the Safe Drinking Water Act, and with air quality planning agencies designated under the Clean Air Act.
