
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 256 - GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STATE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS
##### Subpart A - Purpose, General Requirements, Definitions
###### ยง 256.02 Scope of the State solid waste management plan.

(a)(1) The State plan shall address all solid waste in the State that poses potential adverse effects on health or the environment or provides opportunity for resource conservation or resource recovery. The plan shall consider:

(i) Hazardous wastes;

(ii) Residential, commercial and institutional solid waste;

(iii) Wastewater treatment sludge;

(iv) Pollution control residuals;

(v) Industrial wastes;

(vi) Mining wastes;

(vii) Agricultural wastes;

(viii) Water treatment sludge; and

(ix) Septic tank pumpings.

(2) The State plan shall consider the following aspects of solid waste management:

(i) Resource conservation;

(ii) Source separation;

(iii) Collection;

(iv) Transportation;

(v) Storage;

(vi) Transfer;

(vii) Processing (including resource recovery);

(viii) Treatment; and

(ix) Disposal.

(b) The State Plan shall establish and justify priorities and timing for actions. These priorities shall be based on the current level of solid waste management planning and implementation within the State, the extent of the solid waste management problem, the health, environmental and economic impacts of the problem, and the resources and management approaches available.

(c) The State plan shall set forth an orderly and manageable process for achieving the objectives of the Act and meeting the requirements of these quidelines. This process shall describe as specifically as possible the activities to be undertaken, including detailed schedules and milestones.

(d) The State plan shall cover a minimum of a five year time period from the date submitted to EPA for approval.

(e) The State plan shall identify existing State legal authority for solid waste management and shall identify modifications to regulations necessary to meet the requirements of these guidelines.
