
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 256 - GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STATE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS
##### Subpart A - Purpose, General Requirements, Definitions
###### ยง 256.04 State plan approval, financial assistance.

(a) The Administrator shall, within six months after a State plan has been submitted for approval, approve or disapprove the plan. The Administrator shall approve a plan if he determines that:

(1) It meets the requirements of these guidelines which address sections 4003(1), (2), (3), and (5), and

(2) It contains provisions for revision pursuant to ยง 256.03.

(b) The Administrator shall review approved plans from time to time, and if he determines that revisions or corrections are necessary to bring such plan into compliance with all of the requirements of these guidelines, including the requirements which address sections 4003(4) and (6) and any new or revised requirement established by amendment to this part, he shall notify the State and provide an opportunity for such revisions and corrections and for an appeal and public hearing. If the plan continues to remain out of compliance, he shall withdraw his approval of such plan.

(c) Such withdrawal of approval shall cease to be effective upon the Administrator's determination that the State plan complies with the requirements of these guidelines.

(d) The Administrator shall approve a State application for financial assistance under subtitle D of the Act, and make grants to such State, if the Administrator determines that the State plan continues to be eligible for approval and is being implemented by the State.

(e) Upon withdrawal of approval of a State plan, the Administrator shall withhold Federal financial and technical assistance under subtitle D (other than such technical assistance as may be necessary to assist in obtaining reinstatement of approval) until such time as approval is reinstated. (Procedures for termination of financial assistance and for settlement of disputes are contained in 40 CFR part 30, appendix A, articles 7 and 8.)

(f) If a State submits to EPA the portion of the plan by which entities may, pursuant to ยง 256.26, obtain timetables or schedules of compliance for complying with the open dumping prohibition, the Administrator shall approve such portion of the plan if he determines that:

(1) The portion submitted satisfies the requirements of ยง 256.26;

(2) The State has the general legal authority to issue and enforce compliance schedules; and

(3) The remainder of the plan is being developed in conformity with these guidelines and will be completed within a reasonable period of time.
