
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 256 - GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STATE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS
##### Subpart B - Identification of Responsibilities; Distribution of Funding
###### ยง 256.10 Requirements.

(a) In accordance with sections 4003(1) and 4006 and the interim guidelines for identification of regions and agencies for solid waste management (40 CFR part 255), the State plan shall provide for:

(1) The identification of the responsibilities of State and substate (regional, local and interstate) authorities in the development and implementation of the State plan;

(2) The means of distribution of Federal funds to the authorities responsible for development and implementation of the State plan; and

(3) The means for coordinating substate planning and implementation.

(b) Responsibilities shall be identified for the classification of disposal facilities for the inventory of open dumps.

(c) Responsibilities shall be identified for development and implementation of the State regulatory program described in subpart C of this part.

(d) Responsibilities shall be identified for the development and implementation of the State resource conservation and resource recovery program described in subpart D of this part.

(e) State, substate and private sector responsibilities shall be identified for the planning and implementation of solid and hazardous waste management facilities and services.

(f) Financial assistance under sections 4008(a) (1) and (2) shall be allocated by the State to State and substate authorities carrying out development and implementation of the State plan. Such allocation shall be based on the responsibilities of the respective parties as determined under section 4006(b).
