
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 256 - GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STATE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS
##### Subpart D - Resource Conservation and Resource Recovery Programs
###### ยง 256.31 Recommendations for developing and implementing resource conservation and recovery programs.

(a) In order to encourage resource recovery and conservation, the State plan should provide for technical assistance, training, information development and dissemination, financial support programs, market studies and market development programs.

(b) In order to comply with the requirement of ยง 256.30(b) regarding long-term contract prohibitions, the State plan should provide for:

(1) Review of existing State and local laws and regulations pertinent to contracting for resource recovery services or facilities.

(2) Reporting of all laws and regulations found to be in violation of this requirement to the executive officer of the administrative agency responsible for the statute.

(3) Development of an administrative order or a revised law or regulation or any other preliminary step for the removal or amending of a law or regulation in violation of this requirement.

(4) Development of a strategy for the consideration of the legislature to prohibit and/or remove from State or local law provisions in violation of this requirement.

(c) The State plan should aid and encourage State procurement of products containing recovered materials in accord with section 6002 of the Act. To assist this effort, the State plan should provide for:

(1) The development of a policy statement encouraging the procurement of recovered materials, wherever feasible;

(2) The identification of the key purchasing agencies of the State, along with potential uses of recovered materials by these agencies; and,

(3) The development of a plan of action to promote the use of recovered materials through executive order, legislative initiative, or other action that the State deems necessary.

(d) In order to encourage resource recovery and conservation, the State plan should provide for the elimination, to the extent possible, of restrictions on the purchase of goods or services, especially negotiated procurements, for resource recovery facilities. This should include:

(1) Review of existing State and local laws pertinent to the procurement of equipment and services for the design, construction and operation of resource recovery facilities;

(2) Listing of all laws that limit the ability of localities to negotiate for the procurement of the design, construction, or operation of resource recovery facilities;

(3) Development of administrative orders or legislation or other action that would eliminate these restrictions; and

(4) Development of a strategy and plan of action for the consideration of the legislature for execution of administrative orders or other action that would eliminate these restrictions.

(e) The State plan should encourage the development of resource recovery and resource conservation facilities and practices as the preferred means of solid waste management whenever technically and economically feasible. The State plan should provide for the following activities:

(1) The composition of wastes should be analyzed with particular emphasis on recovery potential for material and energy, including fuel value, percentages of recoverable industrial wastes, grades of wastepaper, glass, and non-ferrous and ferrous metals.

(2) Available and potential markets for recovered materials and energy should be identified, including markets for recoverable industrial wastes; wastepapers; ferrous and non-ferrous metals; glass; solid, liquid, or gaseous fuels; sludges; and tires. The following should be evaluated: location and transportation requirements, materials and energy specifications of user industries, minimum quantity requirements, pricing mechanisms and long-term contract availability.

(3) Resource recovery feasibility studies should be conducted in regions of the State in which uses or markets for recovered materials or energy are identified. These studies should review various technological approaches, environmental considerations, institutional and financial constraints, and economic feasibility.

(4) Source separation, recycling and resource conservation should be utilized whenever technically and economically feasible.

(5) Mixed waste processing facilities for the recovery of energy and materials should be utilized whenever technically and economically feasible.

(6) Source separation, resource conservation and mixed waste processing capacity should be combined to achieve the most effective resource conservation and economic balance.
