
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 256 - GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STATE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS
##### Subpart C - Solid Waste Disposal Programs
###### ยง 256.23 Requirements for closing or upgrading open dumps.

In meeting the requirement of section 4003(3) for closing or upgrading open dumps:

(a) The State plan shall provide for the classification of existing solid waste disposal facilities according to the criteria. This classification shall be submitted to EPA, and facilities classified as open dumps shall be published in the inventory of open dumps.

(b) The State plan shall provide for an orderly time-phasing of the disposal facility classifications described in paragraph (a) of this section. The determination of priorities for the classification of disposal facilities shall be based upon:

(1) The potential health and environmental impact of the solid waste disposal facility;

(2) The availability of State regulatory and enforcement powers; and

(3) The availability of Federal and State resources for this purpose.

(c) For each facility classified as an open dump the State shall take steps to close or upgrade the facility. Evidence of that action shall be incorporated by reference into the annual work program and be made publicly available. When the State's actions concerning open dumps are modified, the changes shall be referenced in subsequent annual work programs.

(d) In providing for the closure of open dumps the State shall take steps necessary to eliminate health hazards and minimize potential health hazards. These steps shall include requirements for long-term monitoring or contingency plans where necessary.
