
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 256 - GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STATE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS
##### Subpart E - Facility Planning and Implementation
###### ยง 256.41 Recommendations for assessing the need for facilities.

(a) In meeting the requirement for adequate resource conservation, recovery, storage, treatment and disposal facilities and practices, the State plan should provide for an assessment of the adequacy of existing facilities and practices and the need for new or expanded facilities and practices.

(1) The needs assessment should be based on current and projected waste generation rates and on the capacities of presently operating and planned facilities.

(2) Existing and planned resource conservation and recovery practices and their impact on facility needs should be assessed.

(3) Current and projected movement of solid and hazardous waste across State and local boundaries should be assessed.

(4) Special handling needs should be determined for all solid waste categories.

(5) Impact on facility capacities due to predictable changes in waste quantities and characteristics should be estimated.

(6) Environmental, economic, and other constraints on continued operation of facilities should be assessed.

(7) Diversion of wastes due to closure of open dumps should be anticipated.

(8) Facilities and practices planned or provided for by the private sector should be assessed.

(b) The State plan should provide for the identification of areas which require new capacity development, based on the needs assessment.
