
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 256 - GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STATE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLANS
##### Subpart F - Coordination With Other Programs
###### ยง 256.50 Requirements.

Section 4003(1) requires the State solid waste management plan to idenifty means for coordinating regional planning and implementation under the State plan. Section 1006 requires the Administrator to integrate all provisions of this Act (including approval of State plans) with other Acts that grant regulatory authority to the Administrator in order to prevent duplication of administrative and enforcement efforts. In order to meet these requirements:

(a) The State solid waste management plan shall be developed in coordination with Federal, State, and substate programs for air quality, water quality, water supply, waste water treatment, pesticides, ocean protection, toxic substances control, noise control, and radiation control.

(b) The State plan shall provide for coordination with programs under section 208 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1288). In identifying agencies for solid waste management planning and implementation, the State shall review the solid waste management activities being conducted by water quality planning and management agencies designated under section 208 of the Clean Water Act. Where feasible, identification of such agencies should be considered during the identification of responsibilities under subpart B of this part. Where solid waste management and water quality agencies are separate entities, necessary coordination procedures shall be established.

(c) The State plan shall provide for coordination with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) established under section 402 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1342). The issuance of State facility permits and actions taken to close or upgrade open dumps shall be timed, where practicable, to coordinate closely with the issuance of a new or revised NPDES permit for such facility.

(d) The State plan shall provide for coordination with activities for municipal sewage sludge disposal and utilization conducted under the authority of section 405 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1345), and with the program for construction grants for publicly owned treatment works under section 201 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1281).

(e) The State plan shall provide for coordination with State pretreatment activities under section 307 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1317).

(f) The State plan shall provide for coordination with agencies conducting assessments of the impact of surface impoundments on underground sources of drinking water under the authority of section 1442(a)(8)(C) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-1).
