
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### et al.

(2) Farthing,1988a. "PMSource Measurement Methodology: Field Studies," EPA 600/3-88/055, NTIS PB89-194278/AS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

(3) Farthing, W.E., and S.S. Dawes. 1988b. "Application Guide for Source PMMeasurement with Constant Sampling Rate," EPA/600/3-88-057, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

(4) Richards, J.R. 1996. "Test protocol: PCA PM/PMEmission Factor Chemical Characterization Testing," PCA R&D Serial No. 2081, Portland Cement Association.

(5) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Reference Methods 1 through 5 and Method 17, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-1 through A-3 and A-6.

(6) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 2010. "Field Evaluation of an Improved Method for Sampling and Analysis of Filterable and Condensable Particulate Matter." Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policy and Program Division Monitoring Policy Group. Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

You must use the following tables, diagrams, flowcharts, and data to complete this test method successfully.

1.1 Scope. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA or "we") developed this method to describe the procedures that the stack tester ("you") must follow to measure condensable particulate matter (CPM) emissions from stationary sources. This method includes procedures for measuring both organic and inorganic CPM.

1.2 Applicability. This method addresses the equipment, preparation, and analysis necessary to measure only CPM. You can use this method only for stationary source emission measurements. You can use this method to measure CPM from stationary source emissions after filterable particulate matter (PM) has been removed. CPM is measured in the emissions after removal from the stack and after passing through a filter.

(a) If the gas filtration temperature exceeds 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F) and you must measure both the filterable and condensable (material that condenses after passing through a filter) components of total primary (direct) PM emissions to the atmosphere, then you must combine the procedures in this method with the procedures in Method 201A of appendix M to this part for measuring filterable PM. However, if the gas filtration temperature never exceeds 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F), then use of this method is not required to measure total primary PM.
