
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart B - Disposal Standards for the Receipt of Very Small Quantity Generator (VSQG) Wastes at Non-Municipal Non-Hazardous Waste Disposal Units
###### § 257.5 Disposal standards for owners/operators of non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal units that receive Very Small Quantity Generator (VSQG) waste.
####### Applicability.

(a)(1) The requirements in this section apply to owners/operators of any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that receives VSQG hazardous waste, as defined in 40 CFR 260.10. Non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal units that meet the requirements of this section may receive VSQG wastes. Any owner/operator of a non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that receives VSQG hazardous waste continues to be subject to the requirements in §§ 257.3-2, 257.3-3, 257.3-5, 257.3-6, 257.3-7, and 257.3-8(a), (b), and (d).

(2) Any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that is receiving VSQG hazardous waste as of January 1, 1998, must be in compliance with the requirements in §§ 257.7 through 257.13 and § 257.30 by January 1, 1998, and the requirements in §§ 257.21 through 257.28 by July 1, 1998.

(3) Any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that does not meet the requirements in this section may not receive VSQG wastes.

(4) Any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that is not receiving VSQG Hazardous waste as of January 1, 1998, continues to be subject to the requirements in §§ 257.1 through 257.4.

(5) Any non-municipal non-hazardous waste disposal unit that first receives VSQG hazardous waste after January 1, 1998, must be in compliance with §§ 257.7 through 257.30 prior to the receipt of VSQG hazardous waste.
