
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Location Restrictions
####### § 257.64 Unstable areas.

(a) An existing or new CCR landfill, existing or new CCR surface impoundment, or any lateral expansion of a CCR unit must not be located in an unstable area unless the owner or operator demonstrates by the dates specified in paragraph (d) of this section that recognized and generally accepted good engineering practices have been incorporated into the design of the CCR unit to ensure that the integrity of the structural components of the CCR unit will not be disrupted.

(b) The owner or operator must consider all of the following factors, at a minimum, when determining whether an area is unstable:

(1) On-site or local soil conditions that may result in significant differential settling;

(2) On-site or local geologic or geomorphologic features; and

(3) On-site or local human-made features or events (both surface and subsurface).

(c) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must obtain a certification from a qualified professional engineer or approval from the Participating State Director or approval from EPA where EPA is the permitting authority stating that the demonstration meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must complete the demonstration required by paragraph (a) of this section by the date specified in either paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) For an existing CCR landfill or existing CCR surface impoundment, the owner or operator must complete the demonstration no later than October 17, 2018.

(2) For a new CCR landfill, new CCR surface impoundment, or any lateral expansion of a CCR unit, the owner or operator must complete the demonstration no later than the date of initial receipt of CCR in the CCR unit.

(3) The owner or operator has completed the demonstration required by paragraph (a) of this section when the demonstration is placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(e).

(4) An owner or operator of an existing CCR surface impoundment or existing CCR landfill who fails to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section by the date specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is subject to the requirements of § 257.101(b)(1) or (d)(1), respectively.

(5) An owner or operator of a new CCR landfill, new CCR surface impoundment, or any lateral expansion of a CCR unit who fails to make the demonstration showing compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited from placing CCR in the CCR unit.

(e) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 257.105(e), the notification requirements specified in § 257.106(e), and the Internet requirements specified in § 257.107(e).
