
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### i.e.,

8.5 Sampling Train Operation. Operate the sampling train as described in the filterable particulate sampling method (Method 5 of appendix A-3 to part 60, Method 17 of appendix A-6 to part 60, or Method 201A of appendix M to this part) with the following additions or exceptions:

8.5.1 Impinger and CPM Filter Assembly.

8.5.1.1 Monitor the moisture condensation in the knockout and backup impingers. If the accumulated water from moisture condensation overwhelms the knockout impinger, i.e., the water level is more than approximately one-half the capacity of the knockout impinger, or if water accumulates in the backup impinger sufficient to cover the impinger insert tip, then you may interrupt the sampling run, recover and weigh the moisture accumulated in the knockout and backup impinger, reassemble and leak check the sampling train, and resume the sampling run. You must purge the water collected during the test interruption as soon as practical following the procedures in Section 8.5.3.

8.5.1.2 You must include the weight or volume of the moisture in your moisture calculation and you must combine the recovered water with the appropriate sample fraction for subsequent CPM analysis.

8.5.1.3 Use the field data sheet for the filterable particulate method to record the CPM filter temperature readings at the beginning of each sample time increment and when sampling is halted. Maintain the CPM filter greater than 20 &#xB0;C (greater than 65 &#xB0;F) but less than or equal to 30 &#xB0;C (less than or equal to 85 &#xB0;F) during sample collection. (Note: Maintain the temperature of the CPM filter assembly as close to 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F) as feasible.)

8.5.2 Leak-Check Probe/Sample Train Assembly (Post-Test). Conduct the leak rate check according to the filterable particulate sampling method used during sampling. If required, conduct the leak-check at a vacuum equal to or greater than the maximum vacuum achieved during the test run. If the leak rate of the sampling train exceeds 0.02 actual cubic feet per minute or four percent of the average sampling rate during the test run (whichever is less), then the run is invalid and you must repeat it.

8.5.3 Post-Test Nitrogen Purge. As soon as possible after the post-test leak-check, detach the probe, any cyclones, and in-stack or hot filters from the condenser and impinger train. If no water was collected before the CPM filter, then you may skip the remaining purge steps and proceed with sample recovery (see Section 8.5.4). You may purge the CPM sampling train using the sampling system meter box and vacuum pump or by passing nitrogen through the train under pressure. For either type of purge, you must first attach the nitrogen supply line to a purged inline filter.

8.5.3.1 If you choose to conduct a pressurized nitrogen purge at the completion of CPM sample collection, you may purge the entire CPM sample collection train from the condenser inlet to the CPM filter holder outlet or you may quantitatively transfer the water collected in the condenser and the water dropout impinger to the backup impinger and purge only the backup impinger and the CPM filter. You must measure the water in the knockout and backup impingers and record the volume or weight as part of the moisture collected during sampling as specified in Section 8.5.3.4.

8.5.3.1.1 If you choose to conduct a purge of the entire CPM sampling train, you must replace the short stem impinger insert in the knock out impinger with a standard modified Greenburg Smith impinger insert.

8.5.3.1.2 If you choose to combine the knockout and backup impinger catch prior to purge, you must purge the backup impinger and CPM filter holder.

8.5.3.1.3 If the tip of the impinger insert does not extend below the water level (including the water transferred from the first impinger if this option was chosen), you must add a measured amount of degassed, deionized ultra-filtered water that contains 1 ppmw (1 mg/L) residual mass or less until the impinger tip is at least 1 centimeter below the surface of the water. You must record the amount of water added to the water dropout impinger (Vp)(see Figure 4 of Section 18) to correct the moisture content of the effluent gas. (Note: Prior to use, water must be degassed using a nitrogen purge bubbled through the water for at least 15 minutes to remove dissolved oxygen).

8.5.3.1.4 To perform the nitrogen purge using positive pressure nitrogen flow, you must start with no flow of gas through the clean purge line and fittings. Connect the filter outlet to the input of the impinger train and disconnect the vacuum line from the exit of the silica moisture collection impinger (see Figure 3 of Section 18). You may purge only the CPM train by disconnecting the moisture train components if you measure moisture in the field prior to the nitrogen purge. You must increase the nitrogen flow gradually to avoid over-pressurizing the impinger array. You must purge the CPM train at a minimum of 14 liters per minute for at least one hour. At the conclusion of the purge, turn off the nitrogen delivery system.

8.5.3.2 If you choose to conduct a nitrogen purge on the complete CPM sampling train using the sampling system meter box and vacuum pump, replace the short stem impinger insert with a modified Greenberg Smith impinger insert. The impinger tip length must extend below the water level in the impinger catch.

(a) You must conduct the purge on the complete CPM sampling train starting at the inlet of the condenser. If insufficient water was collected, you must add a measured amount of degassed, deionized ultra-filtered water that contains 1 ppmw (1 mg/L) residual mass or less until the impinger tip is at least 1 centimeter below the surface of the water. You must record the amount of water added to the water dropout impinger (V) (see Figure 4 of Section 18) to correct the moisture content of the effluent gas. (Prior to use, water must be degassed using a nitrogen purge bubbled through the water for at least 15 minutes to remove dissolved oxygen.)

(b) You must start the purge using the sampling train vacuum pump with no flow of gas through the clean purge line and fittings. Connect the filter outlet to the input of the impinger train (see Figure 2 of Section 18). To avoid over- or under-pressurizing the impinger array, slowly commence the nitrogen gas flow through the line while simultaneously opening the meter box pump valve(s). Adjust the pump bypass and/or nitrogen delivery rates to obtain the following conditions: 14 liters/min or ΔH@ and a positive overflow rate through the rotameter of less than 2 liters/min. The presence of a positive overflow rate guarantees that the nitrogen delivery system is operating at greater than ambient pressure and prevents the possibility of passing ambient air (rather than nitrogen) through the impingers. Continue the purge under these conditions for at least one hour, checking the rotameter and ΔH@ value(s) at least every 15 minutes. At the conclusion of the purge, simultaneously turn off the delivery and pumping systems.

8.5.3.3 During either purge procedure, continue operation of the condenser recirculation pump, and heat or cool the water surrounding the first two impingers to maintain the gas temperature measured at the exit of the CPM filter greater than 20 &#xB0;C (greater than 65 &#xB0;F), but less than or equal to 30 &#xB0;C (less than or equal to 85 &#xB0;F). If the volume of liquid collected in the moisture traps has not been determined prior to conducting the nitrogen purge, maintain the temperature of the moisture traps following the CPM filter to prevent removal of moisture during the purge. If necessary, add more ice during the purge to maintain the gas temperature measured at the exit of the silica gel impinger below 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F). Continue the purge under these conditions for at least one hour, checking the rotameter and ΔH@ value(s) periodically. At the conclusion of the purge, simultaneously turn off the delivery and pumping systems.

8.5.3.4 Weigh the liquid, or measure the volume of the liquid collected in the dropout, impingers, and silica trap if this has not been done prior to purging the sampling train. Measure the liquid in the water dropout impinger to within 1 ml using a clean graduated cylinder or by weighing it to within 0.5 g using a balance. Record the volume or weight of liquid present to be used to calculate the moisture content of the effluent gas in the field log notebook.

8.5.3.5 If a balance is available in the field, weigh the silica impinger to within 0.5 g. Note the color of the indicating silica gel in the last impinger to determine whether it has been completely spent, and make a notation of its condition in the field log notebook.

8.5.4 Sample Recovery.
