
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Design Criteria
####### ยง 257.71 Liner design criteria for existing CCR surface impoundments.
######## 3,www.regulations.gov

() A report of the results of each sampling event, as well as the final trend analysis, must be posted to the facility's publicly accessible CCR internet site and submitted to EPA within 14 days of completion. The trend analysis submitted to EPA must include all data relied upon by the facility to support the analysis. EPA will publish a proposed decision on the trend analysis onfor a 30-day comment period. After consideration of the comments, EPA will issue its decision. If the trend analysis shows the potential for a future exceedance of a groundwater protection standard, before the closure deadlines established in ยง 257.102, the CCR surface impoundment must cease receipt of waste by the date provided in the notice.

(C) If the trend analysis demonstrates the presence of a statistically significant trend of increasing concentration for one or more constituents listed in appendix IV of this part with potential to result in an exceedance of any groundwater protection standard before closure is complete, or if at any time one or more constituents listed in appendix IV of this part are detected at a statistically significant level above a groundwater protection standard, the authorization will be withdrawn. The provisions at ยง 257.96(g)(3) do not apply to CCR surface impoundments operating under an alternate liner demonstration. Upon receipt of a decision that the alternate liner demonstration has been withdrawn, the owner or operator must place the decision in the facility's operating record as required by ยง 257.105(f)(24).

(D) The onus remains on the owner or operator of the CCR surface impoundment at all times to demonstrate that the CCR surface impoundment meets the conditions for authorization under this section. If at any point, any condition for qualification under this section has not been met, EPA or the Participating State Director can without further notice or process deny or revoke the owner or operator's authorization under paragraph (d)(2)(ix) of this section.
