
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Design Criteria
####### ยง 257.73 Structural integrity criteria for existing CCR surface impoundments.
######## Activation of the EAP.

(v)The EAP must be implemented once events or circumstances involving the CCR unit that represent a safety emergency are detected, including conditions identified during periodic structural stability assessments, annual inspections, and inspections by a qualified person.

(4) The CCR unit and surrounding areas must be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained with vegetated slopes of dikes not to exceed a height of 6 inches above the slope of the dike, except for slopes which are protected with an alternate form(s) of slope protection.

(b) The requirements of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section apply to an owner or operator of an existing CCR surface impoundment that either:

(1) Has a height of five feet or more and a storage volume of 20 acre-feet or more; or

(2) Has a height of 20 feet or more.

(c)(1) No later than October 17, 2016, the owner or operator of the CCR unit must compile a history of construction, which shall contain, to the extent feasible, the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (xi) of this section.

(i) The name and address of the person(s) owning or operating the CCR unit; the name associated with the CCR unit; and the identification number of the CCR unit if one has been assigned by the state.

(ii) The location of the CCR unit identified on the most recent U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) 7minute or 15 minute topographic quadrangle map, or a topographic map of equivalent scale if a USGS map is not available.

(iii) A statement of the purpose for which the CCR unit is being used.

(iv) The name and size in acres of the watershed within which the CCR unit is located.

(v) A description of the physical and engineering properties of the foundation and abutment materials on which the CCR unit is constructed.

(vi) A statement of the type, size, range, and physical and engineering properties of the materials used in constructing each zone or stage of the CCR unit; the method of site preparation and construction of each zone of the CCR unit; and the approximate dates of construction of each successive stage of construction of the CCR unit.

(vii) At a scale that details engineering structures and appurtenances relevant to the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of the CCR unit, detailed dimensional drawings of the CCR unit, including a plan view and cross sections of the length and width of the CCR unit, showing all zones, foundation improvements, drainage provisions, spillways, diversion ditches, outlets, instrument locations, and slope protection, in addition to the normal operating pool surface elevation and the maximum pool surface elevation following peak discharge from the inflow design flood, the expected maximum depth of CCR within the CCR surface impoundment, and any identifiable natural or manmade features that could adversely affect operation of the CCR unit due to malfunction or mis-operation.

(viii) A description of the type, purpose, and location of existing instrumentation.

(ix) Area-capacity curves for the CCR unit.

(x) A description of each spillway and diversion design features and capacities and calculations used in their determination.

(xi) The construction specifications and provisions for surveillance, maintenance, and repair of the CCR unit.

(xii) Any record or knowledge of structural instability of the CCR unit.
