
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Design Criteria
####### ยง 257.73 Structural integrity criteria for existing CCR surface impoundments.
######## Frequency for conducting periodic assessments.

(3)The owner or operator of the CCR unit must conduct and complete the assessments required by paragraphs (a)(2), (d), and (e) of this section every five years. The date of completing the initial assessment is the basis for establishing the deadline to complete the first subsequent assessment. If the owner or operator elects to use a previously completed assessment(s) in lieu of the initial assessment as provided by paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the date of the report for the previously completed assessment is the basis for establishing the deadline to complete the first subsequent assessment. The owner or operator may complete any required assessment prior to the required deadline provided the owner or operator places the completed assessment(s) into the facility's operating record within a reasonable amount of time. In all cases, the deadline for completing subsequent assessments is based on the date of completing the previous assessment. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(3), the owner or operator has completed an assessment when the relevant assessment(s) required by paragraphs (a)(2), (d), and (e) of this section has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by ยง 257.105(f)(5), (10), and (12).
