
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Operating Criteria
####### ยง 257.80 Air criteria.
######## CCR fugitive dust control plan.

(b)The owner or operator of the CCR unit must prepare and operate in accordance with a CCR fugitive dust control plan as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section. This requirement applies in addition to, not in place of, any applicable standards under the Occupational Safety and Health Act.

(1) The CCR fugitive dust control plan must identify and describe the CCR fugitive dust control measures the owner or operator will use to minimize CCR from becoming airborne at the facility. The owner or operator must select, and include in the CCR fugitive dust control plan, the CCR fugitive dust control measures that are most appropriate for site conditions, along with an explanation of how the measures selected are applicable and appropriate for site conditions. Examples of control measures that may be appropriate include: Locating CCR inside an enclosure or partial enclosure; operating a water spray or fogging system; reducing fall distances at material drop points; using wind barriers, compaction, or vegetative covers; establishing and enforcing reduced vehicle speed limits; paving and sweeping roads; covering trucks transporting CCR; reducing or halting operations during high wind events; or applying a daily cover.

(2) If the owner or operator operates a CCR landfill or any lateral expansion of a CCR landfill, the CCR fugitive dust control plan must include procedures to emplace CCR as conditioned CCR. Conditioned CCR means wetting CCR with water to a moisture content that will prevent wind dispersal, but will not result in free liquids. In lieu of water, CCR conditioning may be accomplished with an appropriate chemical dust suppression agent.

(3) The CCR fugitive dust control plan must include procedures to log citizen complaints received by the owner or operator involving CCR fugitive dust events at the facility.

(4) The CCR fugitive dust control plan must include a description of the procedures the owner or operator will follow to periodically assess the effectiveness of the control plan.

(5) The owner or operator of a CCR unit must prepare an initial CCR fugitive dust control plan for the facility no later than October 19, 2015, or by initial receipt of CCR in any CCR unit at the facility if the owner or operator becomes subject to this subpart after October 19, 2015. The owner or operator has completed the initial CCR fugitive dust control plan when the plan has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by ยง 257.105(g)(1).
