
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Design Criteria
####### ยง 257.74 Structural integrity criteria for new CCR surface impoundments and any lateral expansion of a CCR surface impoundment.
######## Periodic safety factor assessments.

(e)(1) The owner or operator must conduct an initial and periodic safety factor assessments for each CCR unit and document whether the calculated factors of safety for each CCR unit achieve the minimum safety factors specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (v) of this section for the critical cross section of the embankment. The critical cross section is the cross section anticipated to be the most susceptible of all cross sections to structural failure based on appropriate engineering considerations, including loading conditions. The safety factor assessments must be supported by appropriate engineering calculations.

(i) The calculated static factor of safety under the end-of-construction loading condition must equal or exceed 1.30. The assessment of this loading condition is only required for the initial safety factor assessment and is not required for subsequent assessments.

(ii) The calculated static factor of safety under the long-term, maximum storage pool loading condition must equal or exceed 1.50.

(iii) The calculated static factor of safety under the maximum surcharge pool loading condition must equal or exceed 1.40.

(iv) The calculated seismic factor of safety must equal or exceed 1.00.

(v) For dikes constructed of soils that have susceptibility to liquefaction, the calculated liquefaction factor of safety must equal or exceed 1.20.

(2) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must obtain a certification from a qualified professional engineer stating that the initial assessment and each subsequent periodic assessment specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section meets the requirements of this section.
