
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Operating Criteria
####### § 257.82 Hydrologic and hydraulic capacity requirements for CCR surface impoundments.
######## Frequency for revising the plan.

(4)The owner or operator must prepare periodic inflow design flood control system plans required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section every five years. The date of completing the initial plan is the basis for establishing the deadline to complete the first periodic plan. The owner or operator may complete any required plan prior to the required deadline provided the owner or operator places the completed plan into the facility's operating record within a reasonable amount of time. In all cases, the deadline for completing a subsequent plan is based on the date of completing the previous plan. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(4), the owner or operator has completed an inflow design flood control system plan when the plan has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(g)(4).

(5) The owner or operator must obtain a certification from a qualified professional engineer or approval from the Participating State Director or approval from EPA where EPA is the permitting authority stating that the initial and periodic inflow design flood control system plans meet the requirements of this section.

(d) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 257.105(g), the notification requirements specified in § 257.106(g), and the internet requirements specified in § 257.107(g).
