
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Operating Criteria
####### § 257.83 Inspection requirements for CCR surface impoundments.
######## Frequency of inspections.

(4)(i) Except as provided for in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator of the CCR unit must conduct the inspection required by paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section on an annual basis. The date of completing the initial inspection report is the basis for establishing the deadline to complete the first subsequent inspection. Any required inspection may be conducted prior to the required deadline provided the owner or operator places the completed inspection report into the facility's operating record within a reasonable amount of time. In all cases, the deadline for completing subsequent inspection reports is based on the date of completing the previous inspection report. For purposes of this section, the owner or operator has completed an inspection when the inspection report has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(g)(6).

(ii) In any calendar year in which both the periodic inspection by a qualified professional engineer and the quinquennial (occurring every five years) structural stability assessment by a qualified professional engineer required by §§ 257.73(d) and 257.74(d) are required to be completed, the annual inspection is not required, provided the structural stability assessment is completed during the calendar year. If the annual inspection is not conducted in a year as provided by this paragraph (b)(4)(ii), the deadline for completing the next annual inspection is one year from the date of completing the quinquennial structural stability assessment.

(5) If a deficiency or release is identified during an inspection, the owner or operator must remedy the deficiency or release as soon as feasible and prepare documentation detailing the corrective measures taken.

(c) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 257.105(g), the notification requirements specified in § 257.106(g), and the internet requirements specified in § 257.107(g).
