
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Operating Criteria
####### § 257.84 Inspection requirements for CCR landfills.
######## Frequency of inspections.

(4)The owner or operator of the CCR unit must conduct the inspection required by paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section on an annual basis. The date of completing the initial inspection report is the basis for establishing the deadline to complete the first subsequent inspection. Any required inspection may be conducted prior to the required deadline provided the owner or operator places the completed inspection report into the facility's operating record within a reasonable amount of time. In all cases, the deadline for completing subsequent inspection reports is based on the date of completing the previous inspection report. For purposes of this section, the owner or operator has completed an inspection when the inspection report has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(g)(9).

(5) If a deficiency or release is identified during an inspection, the owner or operator must remedy the deficiency or release as soon as feasible and prepare documentation detailing the corrective measures taken.

(c) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 257.105(g), the notification requirements specified in § 257.106(g), and the internet requirements specified in § 257.107(g).
