
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Groundwater Monitoring and Corrective Action
####### ยง 257.91 Groundwater monitoring systems.
######## i.e.,

(e) Monitoring wells must be cased in a manner that maintains the integrity of the monitoring well borehole. This casing must be screened or perforated and packed with gravel or sand, where necessary, to enable collection of groundwater samples. The annular space (the space between the borehole and well casing) above the sampling depth must be sealed to prevent contamination of samples and the groundwater.

(1) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must document and include in the operating record the design, installation, development, and decommissioning of any monitoring wells, piezometers and other measurement, sampling, and analytical devices. The qualified professional engineer must be given access to this documentation when completing the groundwater monitoring system certification required under paragraph (f) of this section.

(2) The monitoring wells, piezometers, and other measurement, sampling, and analytical devices must be operated and maintained so that they perform to the design specifications throughout the life of the monitoring program.

(f) The owner or operator must obtain a certification from a qualified professional engineer or approval from the Participating State Director or approval from EPA where EPA is the permitting authority stating that the groundwater monitoring system has been designed and constructed to meet the requirements of this section. If the groundwater monitoring system includes the minimum number of monitoring wells specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the certification must document the basis supporting this determination.

(g) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in ยง 257.105(h), the notification requirements specified in ยง 257.106(h), and the internet requirements specified in ยง 257.107(h).
