
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Groundwater Monitoring and Corrective Action
####### § 257.98 Implementation of the corrective action program.

(a) Within 90 days of selecting a remedy under § 257.97, the owner or operator must initiate remedial activities. Based on the schedule established under § 257.97(d) for implementation and completion of remedial activities the owner or operator must:

(1) Establish and implement a corrective action groundwater monitoring program that:

(i) At a minimum, meets the requirements of an assessment monitoring program under § 257.95;

(ii) Documents the effectiveness of the corrective action remedy; and

(iii) Demonstrates compliance with the groundwater protection standard pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Implement the corrective action remedy selected under § 257.97; and

(3) Take any interim measures necessary to reduce the contaminants leaching from the CCR unit, and/or potential exposures to human or ecological receptors. Interim measures must, to the greatest extent feasible, be consistent with the objectives of and contribute to the performance of any remedy that may be required pursuant to § 257.97. The following factors must be considered by an owner or operator in determining whether interim measures are necessary:

(i) Time required to develop and implement a final remedy;

(ii) Actual or potential exposure of nearby populations or environmental receptors to any of the constituents listed in appendix IV of this part;

(iii) Actual or potential contamination of drinking water supplies or sensitive ecosystems;

(iv) Further degradation of the groundwater that may occur if remedial action is not initiated expeditiously;

(v) Weather conditions that may cause any of the constituents listed in appendix IV to this part to migrate or be released;

(vi) Potential for exposure to any of the constituents listed in appendix IV to this part as a result of an accident or failure of a container or handling system; and

(vii) Other situations that may pose threats to human health and the environment.

(b) If an owner or operator of the CCR unit, determines, at any time, that compliance with the requirements of § 257.97(b) is not being achieved through the remedy selected, the owner or operator must implement other methods or techniques that could feasibly achieve compliance with the requirements.

(c) Remedies selected pursuant to § 257.97 shall be considered complete when:

(1) The owner or operator of the CCR unit demonstrates compliance with the groundwater protection standards established under § 257.95(h) has been achieved at all points within the plume of contamination that lie beyond the groundwater monitoring well system established under § 257.91.

(2) Compliance with the groundwater protection standards established under § 257.95(h) has been achieved by demonstrating that concentrations of constituents listed in appendix IV to this part have not exceeded the groundwater protection standard(s) for a period of three consecutive years using the statistical procedures and performance standards in § 257.93(f) and (g).

(3) All actions required to complete the remedy have been satisfied.

(d) All CCR that are managed pursuant to a remedy required under § 257.97, or an interim measure required under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, shall be managed in a manner that complies with all applicable RCRA requirements.

(e) Upon completion of the remedy, the owner or operator must prepare a notification stating that the remedy has been completed. The owner or operator must obtain a certification from a qualified professional engineer or approval from the Participating State Director or approval from EPA where EPA is the permitting authority attesting that the remedy has been completed in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. The report has been completed when it is placed in the operating record as required by § 257.105(h)(13).

(f) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 257.105(h), the notification requirements specified in § 257.106(h), and the internet requirements specified in § 257.107(h).
