
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### i.e.,http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert_tool.html.,see

11.1 Analytical Data Sheets. (a) Record the filterable particulate field data on the appropriate (, Method 5, 17, or 201A) analytical data sheets. Alternatively, data may be recorded electronically using software applications such as the Electronic Reporting Tool available atRecord the condensable particulate data on the CPM Work Table (Figure 6 of Section 18).

(b) Measure the liquid in all containers either volumetrically to +/-1 ml or gravimetrically to +/-0.5 g. Confirm on the filterable particulate analytical data sheet whether leakage occurred during transport. If a noticeable amount of leakage has occurred, either void the sample or use methods (subject to the approval of the Administrator) to correct the final results.

11.2 Condensable PM Analysis. See the flow chart in Figure 7 of Section 18 for the steps to process and combine fractions from the CPM train.

11.2.1 Container #3, CPM Filter Sample. If the sample was collected by Method 17 or Method 201A with a stack temperature below 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F), transfer the filter and any loose PM from the sample container to a tared glass weighing dish. (See Section 3.0 for a definition of constant weight.) Desiccate the sample for 24 hours in a desiccator containing anhydrous calcium sulfate. Weigh to a constant weight and report the results to the nearest 0.1 mg. [Note: In-stack filter samples collected at 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F) may include both filterable insoluble particulate and condensable particulate. The nozzle and front half wash and filter collected at or below 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F) may not be heated and must be maintained at or below 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F).] If the sample was collected by Method 202, extract the CPM filter as follows:

11.2.1.1 Extract the water soluble (aqueous or inorganic) CPM from the CPM filter by folding the filter in quarters and placing it into a 50-ml extraction tube. Add sufficient deionized, ultra-filtered water to cover the filter (e.g., 10 ml of water). Place the extractor tube into a sonication bath and extract the water-soluble material for a minimum of two minutes. Combine the aqueous extract with the contents of Container #1. Repeat this extraction step twice for a total of three extractions.

11.2.1.2 Extract the organic soluble CPM from the CPM filter by adding sufficient hexane to cover the filter (e.g., 10 ml of hexane). Place the extractor tube into a sonication bath and extract the organic soluble material for a minimum of two minutes. Combine the organic extract with the contents of Container #2. Repeat this extraction step twice for a total of three extractions.

11.2.2 CPM Container #1, Aqueous Liquid Impinger Contents. Analyze the water soluble CPM in Container #1 as described in this section. Place the contents of Container #1 into a separatory funnel. Add approximately 30 ml of hexane to the funnel, mix well, and pour off the upper organic phase. Repeat this procedure twice with 30 ml of hexane each time combining the organic phase from each extraction. Each time, leave a small amount of the organic/hexane phase in the separatory funnel, ensuring that no water is collected in the organic phase. This extraction should yield about 90 ml of organic extract. Combine the organic extract from Container #1 with the organic train rinse in Container #2.

11.2.2.1 Determine the inorganic fraction weight. Transfer the aqueous fraction from the extraction to a clean 500-ml or smaller beaker. Evaporate to no less than 10 ml liquid on a hot plate or in the oven at 105 &#xB0;C and allow to dry at room temperature (not to exceed 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F)). You must ensure that water and volatile acids have completely evaporated before neutralizing nonvolatile acids in the sample. Following evaporation, desiccate the residue for 24 hours in a desiccator containing anhydrous calcium sulfate. Weigh at intervals of at least 6 hours to a constant weight. (See section 3.0 for a definition of constant weight.) Report results to the nearest 0.1 mg on the CPM Work Table (see Figure 6 of section 18) and proceed directly to section 11.2.3. If the residue cannot be weighed to constant weight, re-dissolve the residue in 100 ml of deionized distilled ultra-filtered water that contains 1 ppmw (1 mg/L) residual mass or less and continue to section 11.2.2.2.

11.2.2.2 Use titration to neutralize acid in the sample and remove water of hydration. If used, calibrate the pH meter with the neutral and acid buffer solutions. Then titrate the sample with 0.1N NHOH to a pH of 7.0, as indicated by the pH meter or colorimetric indicator. Record the volume of titrant used on the CPM Work Table (see Figure 6 of section 18).

11.2.2.3 Using a hot plate or an oven at 105 &#xB0;C, evaporate the aqueous phase to approximately 10 ml. Quantitatively transfer the beaker contents to a clean, 50-ml pre-tared weighing tin and evaporate to dryness at room temperature (not to exceed 30 &#xB0;C (85 &#xB0;F)) and pressure in a laboratory hood. Following evaporation, desiccate the residue for 24 hours in a desiccator containing anhydrous calcium sulfate. Weigh at intervals of at least 6 hours to a constant weight. (See section 3.0 for a definition of constant weight.) Report results to the nearest 0.1 mg on the CPM Work Table (see Figure 6 of section 18).

11.2.2.4 Calculate the correction factor to subtract the NHretained in the sample using Equation 1 in section 12.
