
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Groundwater Monitoring and Corrective Action
####### § 257.96 Assessment of corrective measures.

(a) Within 90 days of finding that any constituent listed in Appendix IV to this part has been detected at a statistically significant level exceeding the groundwater protection standard defined under § 257.95(h), or immediately upon detection of a release from a CCR unit, the owner or operator must initiate an assessment of corrective measures to prevent further releases, to remediate any releases and to restore affected area to original conditions. The assessment of corrective measures must be completed within 90 days, unless the owner or operator demonstrates the need for additional time to complete the assessment of corrective measures due to site-specific conditions or circumstances. The owner or operator must obtain a certification from a qualified professional engineer or approval from the Participating State Director or approval from EPA where EPA is the permitting authority attesting that the demonstration is accurate. The 90-day deadline to complete the assessment of corrective measures may be extended for no longer than 60 days. The owner or operator must also include the demonstration in the annual groundwater monitoring and corrective action report required by § 257.90(e), in addition to the certification by a qualified professional engineer or the approval from the Participating State Director or the approval from EPA where EPA is the permitting authority.

(b) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must continue to monitor groundwater in accordance with the assessment monitoring program as specified in § 257.95.

(c) The assessment under paragraph (a) of this section must include an analysis of the effectiveness of potential corrective measures in meeting all of the requirements and objectives of the remedy as described under § 257.97 addressing at least the following:

(1) The performance, reliability, ease of implementation, and potential impacts of appropriate potential remedies, including safety impacts, cross-media impacts, and control of exposure to any residual contamination;

(2) The time required to begin and complete the remedy;

(3) The institutional requirements, such as state or local permit requirements or other environmental or public health requirements that may substantially affect implementation of the remedy(s).

(d) The owner or operator must place the completed assessment of corrective measures in the facility's operating record. The assessment has been completed when it is placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(h)(10).

(e) The owner or operator must discuss the results of the corrective measures assessment at least 30 days prior to the selection of remedy, in a public meeting with interested and affected parties.

(f) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 257.105(h), the notification requirements specified in § 257.106(h), and the Internet requirements specified in § 257.107(h).
