
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Closure and Post-Closure Care
####### § 257.101 Closure or retrofit of CCR units.
######## Location standards under §§ 257.61 through 257.64.

(ii)Except as provided by paragraph (b)(4) of this section, within six months of determining that an existing CCR surface impoundment has not demonstrated compliance with any location standard specified in §§ 257.61(a), 257.62(a), 257.63(a), and 257.64(a), the owner or operator of the CCR surface impoundment must cease placing CCR and non-CCR wastestreams into such CCR unit and close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.

(2) Within six months of either failing to complete the initial or any subsequent periodic safety factor assessment required by § 257.73(e) by the deadlines specified in § 257.73(f)(1) through (3) or failing to document that the calculated factors of safety for the existing CCR surface impoundment achieve the minimum safety factors specified in § 257.73(e)(1)(i) through (iv), the owner or operator of the CCR surface impoundment must cease placing CCR and non-CCR wastestreams into such CCR unit and close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.

(3) An owner or operator of an existing CCR surface impoundment that closes in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section must include a statement in the notification required under § 257.102(g) that the CCR surface impoundment is closing under the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(4) The timeframe specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply if the owner or operator complies with the alternative closure procedures specified in § 257.103.

(c) The owner or operator of a new CCR surface impoundment is subject to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(1) Within six months of either failing to complete the initial or any subsequent periodic safety factor assessment required by § 257.74(e) by the deadlines specified in § 257.74(f)(1) through (3) or failing to document that the calculated factors of safety for the new CCR surface impoundment achieve the minimum safety factors specified in § 257.74(e)(1)(i) through (v), the owner or operator of the CCR surface impoundment must cease placing CCR and non-CCR wastestreams into such CCR unit and close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.

(2) An owner or operator of an new CCR surface impoundment that closes in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section must include a statement in the notification required under § 257.102(g) that the CCR surface impoundment is closing under the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(d) The owner or operator of an existing CCR landfill is subject to the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(1) Except as provided by paragraph (d)(3) of this section, within six months of determining that an existing CCR landfill has not demonstrated compliance with the location restriction for unstable areas specified in § 257.64(a), the owner or operator of the CCR unit must cease placing CCR and non-CCR waste streams into such CCR landfill and close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.

(2) An owner or operator of an existing CCR landfill that closes in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section must include a statement in the notification required under § 257.102(g) that the CCR landfill is closing under the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(3) The timeframe specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply if the owner or operator complies with the alternative closure procedures specified in § 257.103.
