
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Closure and Post-Closure Care
####### ยง 257.103 Alternative closure requirements.
######## CCR landfills,No alternative CCR disposal capacity.

(a)-(1)Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 257.101(d), a CCR landfill may continue to recieve CCR if the owner or operator of the CCR landfill certifies that the CCR must continue to be managed in that CCR landfill due to the absence of alternative disposal capacity both on and off-site of the facility. To qualify under this paragraph, the owner or operator of the CCR landfill must document that all of the following conditions have been met:

(i) No alternative disposal capacity is available on or off-site. An increase in costs or the inconvenience of existing capacity is not sufficient to support qualification under this section;

(ii) The owner or operator has made, and continues to make, efforts to obtain additional capacity. Qualification under this paragraph (a) lasts only as long as no alternative capacity is available. Once alternative capacity is identified, the owner or operator must arrange to use such capacity as soon as feasible;

(iii) The owner or operator must remain in compliance with all other requirements of this subpart, including the requirement to conduct any necessary corrective action; and

(iv) The owner or operator must prepare the annual progress report specified in paragraph (c) of this section documenting the continued lack of alternative capacity and the progress towards the development of alternative CCR disposal capacity.

(2) Once alternative capacity is available, the CCR landfill must cease receiving CCR and initiate closure following the timeframes in ยง 257.102(e).

(3) If no alternative capacity is identified within five years after the initial certification, the CCR landfill must cease receiving CCR and close in accordance with the timeframes in ยง 257.102(e) and (f).
