
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Closure and Post-Closure Care
####### ยง 257.103 Alternative closure requirements.
######## Required notices and progress reports for CCR landfills.

(c)An owner or operator of a CCR landfill that closes in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must complete the notices and progress reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Within six months of becoming subject to closure pursuant to ยง 257.101(d), the owner or operator must prepare and place in the facility's operating record a notification of intent to comply with the alternative closure requirements of this section. The notification must describe why the CCR landfill qualifies for the alternative closure provisions under either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, in addition to providing the documentation and certifications required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator must prepare the periodic progress reports required by paragraph (a)(1)(iv) or (b)(1)(iii) of this section, in addition to describing any problems encountered and a description of the actions taken to resolve the problems. The annual progress reports must be completed according to the following schedule:

(i) The first annual progress report must be prepared no later than 13 months after completing the notification of intent to comply with the alternative closure requirements required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(ii) The second annual progress report must be prepared no later than 12 months after completing the first annual progress report. Subsequent annual progress reports must be prepared within 12 months of completing the previous annual progress report.

(iii) The owner or operator has completed the progress reports specified in this paragraph (c)(2) when the reports are placed in the facility's operating record as required by ยง 257.105(i)(11).

(3) An owner or operator of a CCR landfill must also prepare the notification of intent to close a CCR landfill as required by ยง 257.102(g).
