
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### see

12.2 Calculations. Use the following equations to complete the calculations required in this test method. Enter the appropriate results from these calculations on the CPM Work Table (Figure 6 of Section 18).

12.2.1 Mass of ammonia correction. Correction for ammonia added during titration of 100 ml aqueous CPM sample. This calculation assumes no waters of hydration.

12.2.2 Mass of the Field Train Recovery Blank (mg). Per Section 9.10, the mass of the field train recovery blank, m, shall not exceed 2.0 mg.

12.2.3 Mass of Inorganic CPM (mg).

12.2.4 Total Mass of CPM (mg).

12.2.5 Concentration of CPM (mg/dscf).

12.3 Emissions Test Report. You must prepare a test report following the guidance in EPA Guidance Document 043 (Preparation and Review of Test Reports. December 1998).

An EPA field evaluation of the revised Method 202 showed the following precision in the results: approximately 4 mg for total CPM, approximately 0.5 mg for organic CPM, and approximately 3.5 mg for inorganic CPM.

[Reserved]

Solvent and water are evaporated in a laboratory hood during analysis. No liquid waste is generated in the performance of this method. Organic solvents used to clean sampling equipment should be managed as RCRA organic waste.
