
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### http://www.epa.gov/ttn/emc/approalt.html.

Alternative Method 2, Thermocouple Calibration (ALT-011) for the thermocouple calibration can be found at

(1) Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Environmental Resources. 1960. Chapter 139, Sampling and Testing (Title 25, Rules and Regulations, part I, Department of Environmental Resources, Subpart C, Protection of Natural Resources, Article III, Air Resources). January 8, 1960.

(2) DeWees, W.D. and K.C. Steinsberger. 1989. "Method Development and Evaluation of Draft Protocol for Measurement of Condensable Particulate Emissions." Draft Report. November 17, 1989.

(3) DeWees, W.D., K.C. Steinsberger, G.M. Plummer, L.T. Lay, G.D. McAlister, and R.T. Shigehara. 1989. "Laboratory and Field Evaluation of EPA Method 5 Impinger Catch for Measuring Condensable Matter from Stationary Sources." Paper presented at the 1989 EPA/AWMA International Symposium on Measurement of Toxic and Related Air Pollutants. Raleigh, North Carolina. May 1-5, 1989.

(4) Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI). 2008. "Laboratory Comparison of Methods to Sample and Analyze Condensable PM." EPRI Agreement EP-P24373/C11811 Condensable Particulate Methods: EPRI Collaboration with EPA, October 2008.

(5) Nothstein, Greg. Masters Thesis. University of Washington. Department of Environmental Health. Seattle, Washington.

(6) Richards, J., T. Holder, and D. Goshaw. 2005. "Optimized Method 202 Sampling Train to Minimize the Biases Associated with Method 202 Measurement of Condensable PM Emissions." Paper presented at Air & Waste Management Association Hazardous Waste Combustion Specialty Conference. St. Louis, Missouri. November 2-3, 2005.

(7) Texas Air Control Board, Laboratory Division. 1976. "Determination of Particulate in Stack Gases Containing Sulfuric Acid and/or Sulfur Dioxide." Laboratory Methods for Determination of Air Pollutants. Modified December 3, 1976.

(8) Puget Sound Air Pollution Control Agency, Engineering Division. 1983. "Particulate Source Test Procedures Adopted by Puget Sound Air Pollution Control Agency Board of Directors." Seattle, Washington. August 11, 1983.

(9) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Reference Methods 1 through 5 and Method 17, 40 CFR 60, appendix A-1 through A-3 and A-6.

(10) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 2008. "Evaluation and Improvement of Condensable PM Measurement," EPA Contract No. EP-D-07-097, Work Assignment 2-03, October 2008.

(11) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 2005. "Laboratory Evaluation of Method 202 to Determine Fate of SOin Impinger Water," EPA Contract No. 68-D-02-061, Work Assignment 3-14, September 30, 2005.

(12) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 2010. Field valuation of an Improved Method for Sampling and Analysis of Filterable and Condensable Particulate Matter. Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policy and Program Division Monitoring Policy Group. Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

(13) Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources. 1988. Air Management Operations Handbook, Revision 3. January 11, 1988.

Method 203A is an example test method suitable for State Implementation Plans (SIP) and is applicable to the determination of the opacity of emissions from sources of visible emissions for time-averaged regulations. A time-averaged regulation is any regulation that requires averaging visible emission data to determine the opacity of visible emissions over a specific time period.

Method 203A is virtually identical to EPA's Method 9 of 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A, except for the data-reduction procedures, which provide for averaging times other than 6 minutes. Therefore, using Method 203A with a 6-minute averaging time would be the same as following EPA Method 9. The certification procedures for this method are identical to those provided in Method 9 and are provided here, in full, for clarity and convenience. An example visible emission observation form and instructions for its use can be found in reference 7 of Section 17 of Method 9.

The opacity of emissions from sources of visible emissions is determined visually by an observer certified according to the procedures in Section 10 of this method. Readings taken every 15 seconds are averaged over a time period specified in the applicable regulation ranging from 2 minutes to 6 minutes.
