
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Closure and Post-Closure Care
####### ยง 257.103 Alternative closure requirements.
######## Maximum time frames.

(vi)All CCR surface impoundments covered by paragraph (f)(1) must cease receiving waste by the deadlines specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section and close in accordance with the timeframes in ยง 257.102(e) and (f).

(A) Except as provided by paragraph (f)(1)(vi)(B) of this section, no later than October 15, 2023.

(B) An eligible unlined CCR surface impoundment must cease receiving CCR and/or non-CCR wastestreams no later than October 15, 2024. In order to continue to operate until October 15, 2024, the owner or operator must demonstrate that the unit meets the definition of an eligible unlined CCR surface impoundment.

(vii) An owner or operator may seek additional time beyond the time granted in the initial approval by making the showing in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, provided that no facility may be granted time to operate the impoundment beyond the maximum allowable time frames provided in ยง 257.103(f)(1)(vi).

(viii) The owner or operator at all times bears responsibility for demonstrating qualification under this section. Failure to remain in compliance with any of the requirements of this subpart will result in the automatic loss of authorization under this section.

(ix) The owner or operator must:

(A) Upon submission of the demonstration to the Administrator or the Participating State Director, prepare and place in the facility's operating record a notification that it has submitted the demonstration, along with a copy of the demonstration. An owner or operator that claims CBI in the demonstration may post a redacted version of the demonstration to its publicly accessible CCR internet site provided that it contains sufficient detail so that the public can meaningfully comment on the demonstration.

(B) Upon receipt of a decision pursuant to paragraph (f)(3) of this section, must prepare and place in the facility's operating record a copy of the decision.

(C) If an extension of an approved deadline pursuant to paragraph (f)(1)(vii) of this section has been requested, place a copy of the request submitted to the Administrator or the Participating State Director in the facility's operating record.

(x) The owner or operator must prepare semi-annual progress reports. The semi-annual progress reports must contain all of the following elements:

(A) Discussion of the progress made to date in obtaining alternative capacity, including:
