
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Closure and Post-Closure Care
####### § 257.103 Alternative closure requirements.
######## 8

() The most recent safety factor assessment required at § 257.73(e).

(D) To demonstrate that the criteria in paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section have been met, the owner or operator must submit the closure plan required by § 257.102(b) and a narrative that specifies and justifies the date by which they intend to cease receipt of waste into the unit in order to meet the closure deadlines.

(vi) The owner or operator at all times bears responsibility for demonstrating qualification for authorization under this section. Failure to remain in compliance with any of the requirements of this subpart will result in the automatic loss of authorization under this section.

(vii) The owner or operator must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 257.105(i), the notification requirements specified in § 257.106(i), and the internet posting requirements in § 257.107(i).

(viii) Upon submission of the demonstration to the Administrator or the Participating State Director the owner or operator must prepare and place in the facility's operating record and on its publicly accessible CCR internet site a notification that is has submitted a demonstration along with a copy of the demonstration.

(ix) Upon receipt of a decision pursuant to paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the owner or operator must place a copy of the decision in the facility's operating record and on the facility's publicly accessible CCR internet site.

(x) The owner or operator must prepare an annual progress report documenting the continued lack of alternative capacity and the progress towards the closure of the CCR surface impoundment. The owner or operator has completed the progress report when the report has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(i)(20).
