
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Closure and Post-Closure Care
####### ยง 257.103 Alternative closure requirements.
######## Process to Obtain Authorization.,Deadlines for Submission.

(3)(i)(A) Except as provided by ยง 257.71(d)(2)(iii)(E) and (viii), the owner or operator must submit the demonstration required under paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, for an alternative deadline to cease receipt of waste pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, to the Administrator or the Participating State Director for approval no later than November 30, 2020.

(B) An owner or operator may seek additional time beyond the time granted in the initial approval, in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(vii) of this section, by submitting a new demonstration, as required under paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, to the Administrator or the Participating State Director for approval, no later than fourteen days from determining that the cease receipt of waste deadline will not be met.

(C) Except as provided by ยง 257.71(d)(2)(iii)(E) and (viii), the owner or operator must submit the demonstration required under paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section to the Administrator for approval no later than November 30, 2020.

(ii) EPA will evaluate the demonstration and may request additional information to complete its review. Submission of a complete demonstration will toll the facility's deadline to cease receipt of waste until issuance of a decision under paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section. Incomplete submissions will not toll the facility's deadline and will be rejected without further process. All decisions issued under this paragraph or paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section will contain the facility's deadline to cease receipt of waste.
