
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.105 Recordkeeping requirements.
######## Groundwater monitoring and corrective action.

(h)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:

(1) The annual groundwater monitoring and corrective action report as required by § 257.90(e).

(2) Documentation of the design, installation, development, and decommissioning of any monitoring wells, piezometers and other measurement, sampling, and analytical devices as required by § 257.91(e)(1).

(3) The groundwater monitoring system certification as required by § 257.91(f).

(4) The selection of a statistical method certification as required by § 257.93(f)(6).

(5) Within 30 days of establishing an assessment monitoring program, the notification as required by § 257.94(e)(3).

(6) The results of appendices III and IV to this part constituent concentrations as required by § 257.95(d)(1).

(7) Within 30 days of returning to a detection monitoring program, the notification as required by § 257.95(e).

(8) Within 30 days of detecting one or more constituents in appendix IV to this part at statistically significant levels above the groundwater protection standard, the notifications as required by § 257.95(g).

(9) Within 30 days of initiating the assessment of corrective measures requirements, the notification as required by § 257.95(g)(5).

(10) The completed assessment of corrective measures as required by § 257.96(d).

(11) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording the public meeting for the corrective measures assessment as required by § 257.96(e).

(12) The semiannual report describing the progress in selecting and designing the remedy and the selection of remedy report as required by § 257.97(a), except that the selection of remedy report must be maintained until the remedy has been completed.

(13) Within 30 days of completing the remedy, the notification as required by § 257.98(e).

(14) The demonstration, including long-term performance data, supporting the suspension of groundwater monitoring requirements as required by § 257.90(g).
