
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.105 Recordkeeping requirements.
######## Closure and post-closure care.

(i)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:

(1) The notification of intent to initiate closure of the CCR unit as required by § 257.100(c)(1).

(2) The annual progress reports of closure implementation as required by § 257.100(c)(2)(i) and (ii).

(3) The notification of closure completion as required by § 257.100(c)(3).

(4) The written closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, as required by § 257.102(b), except that only the most recent closure plan must be maintained in the facility's operating record irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) The written demonstration(s), including the certification required by § 257.102(e)(2)(iii), for a time extension for initiating closure as required by § 257.102(e)(2)(ii).

(6) The written demonstration(s), including the certification required by § 257.102(f)(2)(iii), for a time extension for completing closure as required by § 257.102(f)(2)(i).

(7) The notification of intent to close a CCR unit as required by § 257.102(g).

(8) The notification of completion of closure of a CCR unit as required by § 257.102(h).

(9) The notification recording a notation on the deed as required by § 257.102(i).

(10) The notification of intent to comply with the alternative closure requirements as required by § 257.103(c)(1).

(11) The annual progress reports under the alternative closure requirements as required by § 257.103(c)(2).

(12) The written post-closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, as required by § 257.104(d), except that only the most recent closure plan must be maintained in the facility's operating record irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(13) The notification of completion of post-closure care period as required by § 257.104(e).

(14) The notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as required by § 257.103(f)(1)(ix)(A).

(15) The approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as required by § 257.103(f)(1)(ix)(B).

(16) The notification for requesting additional time to the alternative cease receipt of waste deadline as required by § 257.103(f)(1)(ix)(C).

(17) The semi-annual progress reports for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as required by § 257.103(f)(1)(xi).

(18) The notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.103(f)(2)(viii).

(19) The approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.103(f)(2)(ix).

(20) The annual progress report for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.103(f)(2)(x).
