
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.105 Recordkeeping requirements.
######## Design criteria.

(f)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:

(1) The design and construction certifications as required by § 257.70(e) and (f).

(2) The documentation of liner type as required by § 257.71(a).

(3) The design and construction certifications as required by § 257.72(c) and (d).

(4) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator stating that the permanent identification marker was installed as required by §§ 257.73(a)(1) and 257.74(a)(1).

(5) The initial and periodic hazard potential classification assessments as required by §§ 257.73(a)(2) and 257.74(a)(2).

(6) The emergency action plan (EAP), and any amendment of the EAP, as required by §§ 257.73(a)(3) and 257.74(a)(3), except that only the most recent EAP must be maintained in the facility's operating record irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(7) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording the annual face-to-face meeting or exercise between representatives of the owner or operator of the CCR unit and the local emergency responders as required by §§ 257.73(a)(3)(i)(E) and 257.74(a)(3)(i)(E).

(8) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording all activations of the emergency action plan as required by §§ 257.73(a)(3)(v) and 257.74(a)(3)(v).

(9) The history of construction, and any revisions of it, as required by § 257.73(c), except that these files must be maintained until the CCR unit completes closure of the unit in accordance with § 257.102.

(10) The initial and periodic structural stability assessments as required by §§ 257.73(d) and 257.74(d).

(11) Documentation detailing the corrective measures taken to remedy the deficiency or release as required by §§ 257.73(d)(2) and 257.74(d)(2).

(12) The initial and periodic safety factor assessments as required by §§ 257.73(e) and 257.74(e).

(13) The design and construction plans, and any revisions of it, as required by § 257.74(c), except that these files must be maintained until the CCR unit completes closure of the unit in accordance with § 257.102.

(14) The application and any supplemental materials submitted in support of the application as required by § 257.71(d)(1)(i)(E).

(15) The alternative liner demonstration as required by § 257.71(d)(1)(ii)(D).

(16) The alternative liner demonstration extension request as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(ii)(D).

(17) The documentation prepared for the preliminary demonstration as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(ii)(E).

(18) The notification of an incomplete application as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(iii)(B).

(19) The decision on the application as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(iii)(F).

(20) The final decision on the alternative liner demonstration as required by § 257.71(d)(2)(vii).
