
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.105 Recordkeeping requirements.
######## Operating criteria.

(g)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:

(1) The CCR fugitive dust control plan, and any subsequent amendment of the plan, required by § 257.80(b), except that only the most recent control plan must be maintained in the facility's operating record irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) The annual CCR fugitive dust control report required by § 257.80(c).

(3) The initial and periodic run-on and run-off control system plans as required by § 257.81(c).

(4) The initial and periodic inflow design flood control system plan as required by § 257.82(c).

(5) Documentation recording the results of each inspection and instrumentation monitoring by a qualified person as required by § 257.83(a).

(6) The periodic inspection report as required by § 257.83(b)(2).

(7) Documentation detailing the corrective measures taken to remedy the deficiency or release as required by §§ 257.83(b)(5) and 257.84(b)(5).

(8) Documentation recording the results of the weekly inspection by a qualified person as required by § 257.84(a).

(9) The periodic inspection report as required by § 257.84(b)(2).
