
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.105 Recordkeeping requirements.
######## Retrofit criteria.

(j)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information, as it becomes available, in the facility's operating record:

(1) The written retrofit plan, and any amendment of the plan, as required by § 257.102(k)(2), except that only the most recent retrofit plan must be maintained in the facility's operating record irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) The notification of intent that the retrofit activities will proceed in accordance with the alternative procedures in § 257.103.

(3) The annual progress reports required under the alternative requirements as required by § 257.103.

(4) The written demonstration(s), including the certification in § 257.102(f)(2)(iii), for a time extension for completing retrofit activities as required by § 257.102(k)(3).

(5) The notification of intent to initiate retrofit of a CCR unit as required by § 257.102(k)(5).

(6) The notification of completion of retrofit activities as required by § 257.102(k)(6).
