
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.106 Notification requirements.
######## Operating criteria.

(g)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible internet site. The owner or operator must:

(1) Provide notification of the availability of the CCR fugitive dust control plan, or any subsequent amendment of the plan, specified under § 257.105(g)(1).

(2) Provide notification of the availability of the annual CCR fugitive dust control report specified under § 257.105(g)(2).

(3) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic run-on and run-off control system plans specified under § 257.105(g)(3).

(4) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic inflow design flood control system plans specified under § 257.105(g)(4).

(5) Provide notification of the availability of the periodic inspection reports specified under § 257.105(g)(6).

(6) Provide notification of the availability of the documentation detailing the corrective measures taken to remedy the deficiency or release specified under § 257.105(g)(7).

(7) Provide notification of the availability of the periodic inspection reports specified under § 257.105(g)(9).
