
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.106 Notification requirements.
######## Closure and post-closure care.

(i)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible Internet site. The owner or operator must:

(1) Provide notification of the intent to initiate closure of the CCR unit specified under § 257.105(i)(1).

(2) Provide notification of the availability of the annual progress reports of closure implementation specified under § 257.105(i)(2).

(3) Provide notification of closure completion specified under § 257.105(i)(3).

(4) Provide notification of the availability of the written closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, specified under § 257.105(i)(4).

(5) Provide notification of the availability of the demonstration(s) for a time extension for initiating closure specified under § 257.105(i)(5).

(6) Provide notification of the availability of the demonstration(s) for a time extension for completing closure specified under § 257.105(i)(6).

(7) Provide notification of intent to close a CCR unit specified under § 257.105(i)(7).

(8) Provide notification of completion of closure of a CCR unit specified under § 257.105(i)(8).

(9) Provide notification of the deed notation as required by § 257.105(i)(9).

(10) Provide notification of intent to comply with the alternative closure requirements specified under § 257.105(i)(10).

(11) The annual progress reports under the alternative closure requirements as required by § 257.105(i)(11).

(12) Provide notification of the availability of the written post-closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, specified under § 257.105(i)(12).

(13) Provide notification of completion of post-closure care specified under § 257.105(i)(13).

(14) Provide the notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as specified under § 257.105(i)(14).

(15) Provide the approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as required by as specified under § 257.105(i)(15).

(16) Provide the notification for requesting additional time to the alternative cease receipt of waste deadline as required by § 257.105(i)(16).

(17) The semi-annual progress reports for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as specified under § 257.105(i)(17).

(18) Provide the notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as specified under § 257.105(i)(18).

(19) Provide the approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.105(i)(19).

(20) The annual progress report for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.105(i)(20).
