
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.106 Notification requirements.
######## Groundwater monitoring and corrective action.

(h)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible internet site. The owner or operator must:

(1) Provide notification of the availability of the annual groundwater monitoring and corrective action report specified under § 257.105(h)(1).

(2) Provide notification of the availability of the groundwater monitoring system certification specified under § 257.105(h)(3).

(3) Provide notification of the availability of the selection of a statistical method certification specified under § 257.105(h)(4).

(4) Provide notification that an assessment monitoring programs has been established specified under § 257.105(h)(5).

(5) Provide notification that the CCR unit is returning to a detection monitoring program specified under § 257.105(h)(7).

(6) Provide notification that one or more constituents in appendix IV to this part have been detected at statistically significant levels above the groundwater protection standard and the notifications to land owners specified under § 257.105(h)(8).

(7) Provide notification that an assessment of corrective measures has been initiated specified under § 257.105(h)(9).

(8) Provide notification of the availability of assessment of corrective measures specified under § 257.105(h)(10).

(9) Provide notification of the availability of the semiannual report describing the progress in selecting and designing the remedy and the selection of remedy report specified under § 257.105(h)(12).

(10) Provide notification of the completion of the remedy specified under § 257.105(h)(13).

(11) Provide the demonstration supporting the suspension of groundwater monitoring requirements specified under § 257.105(h)(14).
