
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.106 Notification requirements.
######## Design criteria.

(f)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible internet site. The owner or operator must:

(1) Within 60 days of commencing construction of a new CCR unit, provide notification of the availability of the design certification specified under § 257.105(f)(1) or (3). If the owner or operator of the CCR unit elects to install an alternative composite liner, the owner or operator must also submit to the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority a copy of the alternative composite liner design.

(2) No later than the date of initial receipt of CCR by a new CCR unit, provide notification of the availability of the construction certification specified under § 257.105(f)(1) or (3).

(3) Provide notification of the availability of the documentation of liner type specified under § 257.105(f)(2).

(4) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic hazard potential classification assessments specified under § 257.105(f)(5).

(5) Provide notification of the availability of emergency action plan (EAP), and any revisions of the EAP, specified under § 257.105(f)(6).

(6) Provide notification of the availability of documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording the annual face-to-face meeting or exercise between representatives of the owner or operator of the CCR unit and the local emergency responders specified under § 257.105(f)(7).

(7) Provide notification of documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording all activations of the emergency action plan specified under § 257.105(f)(8).

(8) Provide notification of the availability of the history of construction, and any revision of it, specified under § 257.105(f)(9).

(9) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic structural stability assessments specified under § 257.105(f)(10).

(10) Provide notification of the availability of the documentation detailing the corrective measures taken to remedy the deficiency or release specified under § 257.105(f)(11).

(11) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic safety factor assessments specified under § 257.105(f)(12).

(12) Provide notification of the availability of the design and construction plans, and any revision of them, specified under § 257.105(f)(13).

(13) Provide notification of the availability of the application and any supplemental materials submitted in support of the application specified under § 257.105(f)(14).

(14) Provide notification of the availability of the alternative liner demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(15).

(15) Provide notification of the availability of the alternative liner demonstration extension request specified under § 257.105(f)(16).

(16) Provide notification of the availability of the documentation prepared for the preliminary demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(17).

(17) Provide notification of the availability of the notification of an incomplete application specified under § 257.105(f)(18).

(18) Provide notification of the availability of the decision on the application specified under § 257.105(f)(19).

(19) Provide notification of the availability of the final decision on the alternative liner demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(20).

(20) Provide notification of the availability of the alternative source demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(21).

(21) Provide notification of the availability of the final decision on the alternative source demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(22).

(22) Provide notification of the final decision on the trend analysis specified under § 257.105(f)(23).

(23) Provide notification of the decision that the alternative source demonstration has been withdrawn specified under § 257.105(f)(24).
