
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### ยง 257.107 Publicly accessible Internet site requirements.
######## i.e.,

(a) Each owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to the requirements of this subpart must maintain a publicly accessible internet site (CCR website) containing the information specified in this section. The owner or operator's website must be titled "CCR Rule Compliance Data and Information." The website must ensure that all information required to be posted is immediately available to anyone visiting the site, without requiring any prerequisite, such as registration or a requirement to submit a document request. All required information must be clearly identifiable and must be able to be immediately printed and downloaded by anyone accessing the site. If the owner/operator changes the web address (Uniform Resource Locator (URL)) at any point, they must notify EPA via the "contact us" form on EPA's CCR website and the state director within 14 days of making the change. The facility's CCR website must also have a "contact us" form or a specific email address posted on the website for the public to use to submit questions and issues relating to the availability of information on the website.

(b) An owner or operator of more than one CCR unit subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the requirements of this section by using the same Internet site for multiple CCR units provided the CCR Web site clearly delineates information by the name or identification number of each unit.

(c) Unless otherwise required in this section, the information required to be posted to the CCR Web site must be made available to the public for at least five years following the date on which the information was first posted to the CCR Web site.

(d) Unless otherwise required in this section, the information must be posted to the CCR Web site within 30 days of placing the pertinent information required by ยง 257.105 in the operating record.
