
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.107 Publicly accessible Internet site requirements.
######## Design criteria.

(f)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information on the owner or operator's CCR Web site:

(1) Within 60 days of commencing construction of a new unit, the design certification specified under § 257.105(f)(1) or (3).

(2) No later than the date of initial receipt of CCR by a new CCR unit, the construction certification specified under § 257.105(f)(1) or (3).

(3) The documentation of liner type specified under § 257.105(f)(2).

(4) The initial and periodic hazard potential classification assessments specified under § 257.105(f)(5).

(5) The emergency action plan (EAP) specified under § 257.105(f)(6), except that only the most recent EAP must be maintained on the CCR Web site irrespective of the time requirement specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(6) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording the annual face-to-face meeting or exercise between representatives of the owner or operator of the CCR unit and the local emergency responders specified under § 257.105(f)(7).

(7) Documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording any activation of the emergency action plan specified under § 257.105(f)(8).

(8) The history of construction, and any revisions of it, specified under § 257.105(f)(9).

(9) The initial and periodic structural stability assessments specified under § 257.105(f)(10).

(10) The documentation detailing the corrective measures taken to remedy the deficiency or release specified under § 257.105(f)(11).

(11) The initial and periodic safety factor assessments specified under § 257.105(f)(12).

(12) The design and construction plans, and any revisions of them, specified under § 257.105(f)(13).

(13) The application and any supplemental materials submitted in support of the application specified under § 257.105(f)(14).

(14) The alternative liner demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(15).

(15) The alternative liner demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(16).

(16) The documentation prepared for the preliminary demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(17).

(17) The notification of an incomplete application specified under § 257.105(f)(18).

(18) The decision on the application specified under § 257.105(f)(19).

(19) The final decision on the alternative liner demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(20).

(20) The alternative source demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(21).

(21) The final decision on the alternative source demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(22).

(22) The final decision on the trend analysis specified under § 257.105(f)(23).

(23) The decision that the alternative source demonstration has been withdrawn specified under § 257.105(f)(24).
