
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### ยง 257.50 Scope and purpose.

(a) This subpart establishes minimum national criteria for purposes of determining which solid waste disposal facilities and solid waste management practices do not pose a reasonable probability of adverse effects on health or the environment under sections 1008(a)(3) and 4004(a) of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.

(b) This subpart applies to owners and operators of new and existing landfills and surface impoundments, including any lateral expansions of such units that dispose or otherwise engage in solid waste management of CCR generated from the combustion of coal at electric utilities and independent power producers. Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, these requirements also apply to disposal units located off-site of the electric utility or independent power producer. This subpart also applies to any practice that does not meet the definition of a beneficial use of CCR.

(c) This subpart also applies to inactive CCR surface impoundments at active electric utilities or independent power producers, regardless of the fuel currently used at the facility to produce electricity.

(d) This subpart does not apply to CCR landfills that have ceased receiving CCR prior to October 19, 2015.

(e) This subpart does not apply to electric utilities or independent power producers that have ceased producing electricity prior to October 19, 2015.

(f) This subpart does not apply to wastes, including fly ash, bottom ash, boiler slag, and flue gas desulfurization materials generated at facilities that are not part of an electric utility or independent power producer, such as manufacturing facilities, universities, and hospitals. This subpart also does not apply to fly ash, bottom ash, boiler slag, and flue gas desulfurization materials, generated primarily from the combustion of fuels (including other fossil fuels) other than coal, for the purpose of generating electricity unless the fuel burned consists of more than fifty percent (50%) coal on a total heat input or mass input basis, whichever results in the greater mass feed rate of coal.

(g) This subpart does not apply to practices that meet the definition of a beneficial use of CCR.

(h) This subpart does not apply to CCR placement at active or abandoned underground or surface coal mines.

(i) This subpart does not apply to municipal solid waste landfills that receive CCR.
