
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.107 Publicly accessible Internet site requirements.
######## Groundwater monitoring and corrective action.

(h)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information on the owner or operator's CCR Web site:

(1) The annual groundwater monitoring and corrective action report specified under § 257.105(h)(1).

(2) The groundwater monitoring system certification specified under § 257.105(h)(3).

(3) The selection of a statistical method certification specified under § 257.105(h)(4).

(4) The notification that an assessment monitoring programs has been established specified under § 257.105(h)(5).

(5) The notification that the CCR unit is returning to a detection monitoring program specified under § 257.105(h)(7).

(6) The notification that one or more constituents in appendix IV to this part have been detected at statistically significant levels above the groundwater protection standard and the notifications to land owners specified under § 257.105(h)(8).

(7) The notification that an assessment of corrective measures has been initiated specified under § 257.105(h)(9).

(8) The assessment of corrective measures specified under § 257.105(h)(10).

(9) The semiannual reports describing the progress in selecting and designing remedy and the selection of remedy report specified under § 257.105(h)(12), except that the selection of the remedy report must be maintained until the remedy has been completed.

(10) The notification that the remedy has been completed specified under § 257.105(h)(13).

(11) The demonstration supporting the suspension of groundwater monitoring requirements specified under § 257.105(h)(14).
