
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 257 - CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES AND PRACTICES
##### Subpart D - Standards for the Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals in Landfills and Surface Impoundments
###### Recordkeeping, Notification, and Posting of Information to the Internet
####### § 257.107 Publicly accessible Internet site requirements.
######## Closure and post-closure care.

(i)The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must place the following information on the owner or operator's CCR Web site:

(1) The notification of intent to initiate closure of the CCR unit specified under § 257.105(i)(1).

(2) The annual progress reports of closure implementation specified under § 257.105(i)(2).

(3) The notification of closure completion specified under § 257.105(i)(3).

(4) The written closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, specified under § 257.105(i)(4).

(5) The demonstration(s) for a time extension for initiating closure specified under § 257.105(i)(5).

(6) The demonstration(s) for a time extension for completing closure specified under § 257.105(i)(6).

(7) The notification of intent to close a CCR unit specified under § 257.105(i)(7).

(8) The notification of completion of closure of a CCR unit specified under § 257.105(i)(8).

(9) The notification recording a notation on the deed as required by § 257.105(i)(9).

(10) The notification of intent to comply with the alternative closure requirements as required by § 257.105(i)(10).

(11) The annual progress reports under the alternative closure requirements as required by § 257.105(i)(11).

(12) The written post-closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, specified under § 257.105(i)(12).

(13) The notification of completion of post-closure care specified under § 257.105(i)(13).

(14) The notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as specified under § 257.105(i)(14).

(15) The approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as required by as specified under § 257.105(i)(15).

(16) The notification for requesting additional time to the alternative cease receipt of waste deadline as required by § 257.105(i)(16).

(17) The semi-annual progress reports for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as specified under § 257.105(i)(17).

(18) The notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as specified under § 257.105(i)(18).

(19) The approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.105(i)(19).

(20) The annual progress report for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.105(i)(20).
