
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 258.1 Purpose, scope, and applicability.

(a) The purpose of this part is to establish minimum national criteria under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA or the Act), as amended, for all municipal solid waste landfill (MSWLF) units and under the Clean Water Act, as amended, for municipal solid waste landfills that are used to dispose of sewage sludge. These minimum national criteria ensure the protection of human health and the environment.

(b) These Criteria apply to owners and operators of new MSWLF units, existing MSWLF units, and lateral expansions, except as otherwise specifically provided in this part; all other solid waste disposal facilities and practices that are not regulated under subtitle C of RCRA are subject to the criteria contained in part 257 of this chapter.

(c) These Criteria do not apply to municipal solid waste landfill units that do not receive waste after October 9, 1991.

(d)(1) MSWLF units that meet the conditions of § 258.1(e)(2) and receive waste after October 9, 1991 but stop receiving waste before April 9, 1994, are exempt from all the requirements of this part 258, except the final cover requirement specified in § 258.60(a). The final cover must be installed by October 9, 1994. Owners or operators of MSWLF units described in this paragraph that fail to complete cover installation by October 9, 1994 will be subject to all the requirements of this part 258, unless otherwise specified.

(2) MSWLF units that meet the conditions of § 258.1(e)(3) and receive waste after October 9, 1991 but stop receiving waste before the date designated by the state pursuant to § 258.1(e)(3), are exempt from all the requirements of this part 258, except the final cover requirement specified in § 258.60(a). The final cover must be installed within one year after the date designated by the state pursuant to § 258.1(e)(3). Owners or operators of MSWLF units described in this paragraph that fail to complete cover installation within one year after the date designated by the state pursuant to § 258.1(e)(3) will be subject to all the requirements of this part 258, unless otherwise specified.

(3) MSWLF units that meet the conditions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section and receive waste after October 9, 1991 but stop receiving waste before October 9, 1997, are exempt from all the requirements of this part 258, except the final cover requirement specified in § 258.60(a). The final cover must be installed by October 9, 1998. Owners or operators of MSWLF units described in this paragraph that fail to complete cover installation by October 9, 1998 will be subject to all the requirements of this part 258, unless otherwise specified.

(4) MSWLF units that do not meet the conditions of § 258.1 (e)(2), (e)(3), or (f) and receive waste after October 9, 1991 but stop receiving waste before October 9, 1993, are exempt from all the requirements this part 258, except the final cover requirement specified in § 258.60(a). The final cover must be installed by October 9, 1994. Owners or operators of MSWLF units described in this paragraph that fail to complete cover installation by October 9, 1994 will be subject to all the requirements of this part 258, unless otherwise specified.

(e)(1) The compliance date for all requirements of this part 258, unless otherwise specified, is October 9, 1993 for all MSWLF units that receive waste on or after October 9, 1993, except those units that qualify for an extension under (e)(2), (3), or (4) of this section.

(2) The compliance date for all requirements of this part 258, unless otherwise specified, is April 9, 1994 for an existing MSWLF unit or a lateral expansion of an existing MSWLF unit that meets the following conditions:

(i) The MSWLF unit disposed of 100 tons per day or less of solid waste during a representative period prior to October 9, 1993;

(ii) The unit does not dispose of more than an average of 100 TPD of solid waste each month between October 9, 1993 and April 9, 1994;

(iii) The MSWLF unit is located in a state that has submitted an application for permit program approval to EPA by October 9, 1993, is located in the state of Iowa, or is located on Indian Lands or Indian Country; and

(iv) The MSWLF unit is not on the National Priorities List (NPL) as found in appendix B to 40 CFR part 300.
