
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart D - Design Criteria
###### ยง 258.42 Approval of site-specific flexibility requests in Indian country.
####### http://www.regulations.gov,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community (SRPMIC), Salt River Landfill Research, Development, and Demonstration Project Requirements. Paragraph (a) of this section applies to the Salt River Landfill, a municipal solid waste landfill owned and operated by the SPRMIC on the SRPMIC's reservation in Arizona, which includes waste disposal areas identified as "Phases I-VI." The application submitted by SRPMIC, "Research, Development, and Demonstration Permit Application Salt River Landfill," dated September 24, 2007 and amended on April 8, 2008 is hereby incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may inspect or obtain a copy at the Environmental Protection Agency Region IX, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA, or by calling the Docket Facility at (415) 947-4406, or go to, Docket ID No. EPA-R09-RCRA-2008-0354. You may also inspect a copy at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability at NARA, call (202) 741-6030 or go to:The facility owner and/or operator may operate the facility in accordance with this application, including the following activities more generally described as follows:

(1) The owner and/or operator may install a geosynthetic clay liner as an alternative bottom liner system in Phase VI.

(2) The owner and/or operator may operate Phase VI as a bioreactor by recirculating leachate and landfill gas condensate, and by adding storm water and groundwater, to the below grade portions of Phase VI.

(3) The owner and/or operator may increase the moisture content of the waste mass in Phases IIIB and IVA by recirculating leachate and landfill gas condensate, and by adding storm water and groundwater, to the below grade portions of Phases IIIB and IVA.

(4) The owner and/or operator shall maintain less than a 30-cm depth of leachate on the liner.

(5) The owner and/or operator shall submit reports to the Director of the Land, Chemicals and Redevelopment Division at EPA Region 9 as specified in "Research, Development, and Demonstration Permit Application Salt River Landfill," dated September 24, 2007 and amended on April 8, 2008, including an annual report showing whether and to what extent the site is progressing in attaining project goals. The annual report will also include a summary of all monitoring and testing results, as specified in the application.

(6) The owner and/or operator may not operate the facility pursuant to the authority granted by this section if there is any deviation from the terms, conditions, and requirements of this section unless the operation of the facility will continue to conform to the standards set forth in ยง 258.4 and the owner and/or operator has obtained the prior written approval of the Director of the Land, Chemicals and Redevelopment Division at EPA Region 9 or the Director's designee to implement corrective measures or otherwise operate the facility subject to such deviation. The Director of the Land, Chemicals and Redevelopment Division or designee shall provide an opportunity for the public to comment on any significant deviation prior to providing written approval of the deviation.

(7) Paragraphs (a)(2), (3), (5), (6), and (9) of this section will terminate on March 19, 2024, unless the Director of the Land, Chemicals and Redevelopment Division at EPA Region 9 or the Director's designee renews this authority in writing. Any such renewal may extend the authority granted under paragraphs (a)(2), (3), (5), (6), and (9) of this section for up to an additional three years, and multiple renewals (up to a total of 21 years from March 19, 2009) may be provided. The Director of the Land, Chemicals and Redevelopment Division or designee shall provide an opportunity for the public to comment on any renewal request prior to providing written approval or disapproval of such request.

(8) In no event will the provisions of paragraph (a)(2), (3), (5), (6), or (9) of this section remain in effect after March 19, 2030, 21 years after the March 19, 2009 date of publication of the site-specific rule in this section. Upon termination of paragraphs (a)(2), (3), (5), (6), and (9) of this section, and except with respect to paragraphs (a)(1) and (4) of this section, the owner and/or operator shall return to compliance with the regulatory requirements which would have been in effect absent the flexibility provided through the site-specific rule in this section.

(9) In seeking any renewal of the authority granted under or other requirements of paragraphs (a)(2), (3), (5), and (6) of this section, the owner and/or operator shall provide a detailed assessment of the project showing the status with respect to achieving project goals, a list of problems and status with respect to problem resolutions, and any other requirements that the Director of the Land, Chemicals and Redevelopment Division at EPA Region 9 or the Director's designee has determined are necessary for the approval of any renewal and has communicated in writing to the owner and operator.

(10) The owner and/or operator's authority to operate the landfill in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2), (3), (5), (6), and (9) of this section shall terminate if the Director of the Land, Chemicals and Redevelopment Division at EPA Region 9 or the Director's designee determines that the overall goals of the project are not being attained, including protection of human health or the environment. Any such determination shall be communicated in writing to the owner and operator.

(b) [Reserved]
