
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart D - Design Criteria
###### ยง 258.41 Project XL Bioreactor Landfill Projects.
####### et seq.

(5) The owner or operator of the Yolo County Central Landfill shall submit an annual report to the EPA Regional Administrator and the State Director. The first report is due within 18 months after August 13, 2001. The report shall state what progress the Project is making towards the superior environmental performance as stated in the Final Project Agreement. The data in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (xvi) of this section may be summarized, but, at a minimum, shall contain the minimum, maximum, median, and average data points as well as the frequency of monitoring, as applicable. These reporting provisions shall remain in effect for as long as the owner or operator of the Yolo County Central Landfill continues to add liquid waste to Module D. Additional monitoring, record keeping and reporting requirements related to landfill gas will be contained in a permit executed by the local air quality management district pursuant to the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401Application of this site-specific rule to the Yolo County Central Landfill is conditioned upon the issuance of such permit. The annual report will include, at a minimum, the following data:

(i) Amount of landfill gas generated;

(ii) Percent capture of landfill gas;

(iii) Quality of the landfill gas;

(iv) Amount and type of liquids applied to the landfill;

(v) Method of liquids application to the landfill;

(vi) Quantity of waste placed in the landfill;

(vii) Quantity and quality of leachate collected, including at least the following parameters, monitored, at a minimum, on an annual basis:

(A) pH;

(B) Conductivity;

(C) Dissolved oxygen;

(D) Dissolved solids;

(E) Biochemical oxygen demand;

(F) Chemical oxygen demand;

(G) Organic carbon;

(H) Nutrients, (including ammonia ["NH"], total kjeldahl nitrogen ["TKN"], and total phosphorus ["TP"]);

(I) Common ions;

(J) Heavy metals;

(K) Organic priority pollutants; and

(L) Flow rate;

(viii) Quantity of leachate recirculated back into the landfill;

(ix) Information on the pretreatment of solid and liquid waste applied to the landfill;

(x) Landfill temperature;

(xi) Landfill moisture content;

(xii) Data on the leachate pressure (head) on the liner;

(xiii) The amount of aeration of the waste;

(xiv) Data on landfill settlement;

(xv) Any information on the performance of the landfill cover; and

(xvi) Observations, information, or studies made on the physical stability of the landfill.

(6) This section will remain in effect until August 13, 2006. By August 13, 2006, Yolo County Central Landfill shall return to compliance with the regulatory requirements which would have been in effect absent the flexibility provided through this Project XL site-specific rule. This section applies to Phase I of Module D. This section also will apply to any phase of Module D beyond Phase I only if a second Final Project Agreement that describes the additional phase has been signed by representatives of EPA Region 9, Yolo County, and the State of California. Phase I of Module D is defined as the operation of twelve acres of the twenty acre Module D.
