
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart F - Closure and Post-Closure Care
###### § 258.60 Closure criteria.

(a) Owners or operators of all MSWLF units must install a final cover system that is designed to minimize infiltration and erosion. The final cover system must be designed and constructed to:

(1) Have a permeability less than or equal to the permeability of any bottom liner system or natural subsoils present, or a permeability no greater than 1 x 10cm/sec, whichever is less, and

(2) Minimize infiltration through the closed MSWLF by the use of an infiltration layer that contains a minimum 18-inches of earthen material, and

(3) Minimize erosion of the final cover by the use of an erosion layer that contains a minimum 6-inches of earthen material that is capable of sustaining native plant growth.

(b) The Director of an approved State may approve an alternative final cover design that includes:

(1) An infiltration layer that achieves an equivalent reduction in infiltration as the infiltration layer specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, and

(2) An erosion layer that provides equivalent protection from wind and water erosion as the erosion layer specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) The Director of an approved State may establish alternative requirements for the infiltration barrier in a paragraph (b)(1) of this section, after public review and comment, for any owners or operators of MSWLFs that dispose of 20 tons of municipal solid waste per day or less, based on an annual average. Any alternative requirements established under this paragraph must:

(i) Consider the unique characteristics of small communities;

(ii) Take into account climatic and hydrogeologic conditions; and

(iii) Be protective of human health and the environment.

(c) The owner or operator must prepare a written closure plan that describes the steps necessary to close all MSWLF units at any point during their active life in accordance with the cover design requirements in § 258.60(a) or (b), as applicable. The closure plan, at a minimum, must include the following information:

(1) A description of the final cover, designed in accordance with § 258.60(a) and the methods and procedures to be used to install the cover;

(2) An estimate of the largest area of the MSWLF unit ever requiring a final cover as required under § 258.60(a) at any time during the active life;

(3) An estimate of the maximum inventory of wastes ever on-site over the active life of the landfill facility; and

(4) A schedule for completing all activities necessary to satisfy the closure criteria in § 258.60.

(d) The owner or operator must notify the State Director that a closure plan has been prepared and placed in the operating record no later than the effective date of this part, or by the initial receipt of waste, whichever is later.

(e) Prior to beginning closure of each MSWLF unit as specified in § 258.60(f), an owner or operator must notify the State Director that a notice of the intent to close the unit has been placed in the operating record.

(f) The owner or operator must begin closure activities of each MSWLF unit no later than 30 days after the date on which the MSWLF unit receives the known final receipt of wastes or, if the MSWLF unit has remaining capacity and there is a reasonable likelihood that the MSWLF unit will receive additional wastes, no later than one year after the most recent receipt of wastes. Extensions beyond the one-year deadline for beginning closure may be granted by the Director of an approved State if the owner or operator demonstrates that the MSWLF unit has the capacity to receive additional wastes and the owner or operator has taken and will continue to take all steps necessary to prevent threats to human health and the environmental from the unclosed MSWLF unit.

(g) The owner or operator of all MSWLF units must complete closure activities of each MSWLF unit in accordance with the closure plan within 180 days following the beginning of closure as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. Extensions of the closure period may be granted by the Director of an approved State if the owner or operator demonstrates that closure will, of necessity, take longer than 180 days and he has taken and will continue to take all steps to prevent threats to human health and the environment from the unclosed MSWLF unit.

(h) Following closure of each MSWLF unit, the owner or operator must notify the State Director that a certification, signed by an independent registered professional engineer or approved by Director of an approved State, verifying that closure has been completed in accordance with the closure plan, has been placed in the operating record.

(i)(1) Following closure of all MSWLF units, the owner or operator must record a notation on the deed to the landfill facility property, or some other instrument that is normally examined during title search, and notify the State Director that the notation has been recorded and a copy has been placed in the operating record.

(2) The notation on the deed must in perpetuity notify any potential purchaser of the property that:

(i) The land has been used as a landfill facility; and

(ii) Its use is restricted under § 258.61(c)(3).

(j) The owner or operator may request permission from the Director of an approved State to remove the notation from the deed if all wastes are removed from the facility.
