
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart F - Closure and Post-Closure Care
###### ยง 258.62 Approval of site-specific flexibility requests in Indian country.
####### Lake County Municipal Landfill final cover requirements.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)Paragraph (a) of this section applies to the Lake County Landfill, a municipal solid waste landfill owned and operated by Lake County on the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes' Flathead Reservation in Montana. The alternative final cover request submitted by Lake County, Montana, consisting of the "Lake County Landfill Alternative Cover," dated May 2007, the "Construction Quality Assurance & Control Plan for the Lake County Class II Landfill Unit Landfill Closure Project" and the "Lake County Landfill Plans for Final Closure January 2009," dated January 2009, is hereby incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may inspect or obtain a copy at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region VIII, Montana Office, 10 West 15th St., Suite 3200, Helena, MT or by calling 406-457-5000. You may also inspect a copy at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The facility owner and/or operator may close the facility in accordance with this application, including the following activities more generally described as follows:

(1) The owner and operator may install an evapotranspiration system as an alternative final cover for the 15.4 acre active area.

(2) The final cover system shall consist of a 5.5-feet-thick multi-layer cover system comprised, from bottom to top, of an 18-inch intermediate and gas vent layer, a 24-inch native sand layer, an 18-inch imported silt layer and a 6-inch topsoil layer, as well as seeding and erosion control.

(3) The final cover system shall be constructed to achieve an equivalent reduction in infiltration as the infiltration layer specified in ยง 258.60(a)(1) and (a)(2), and provide an equivalent protection from wind and water erosion as the erosion layer specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(4) In addition to meeting the specifications of the "Lake County Landfill Alternative Cover" dated May 2007, and the "Construction Quality Assurance & Control Plan for the Lake County Class II Landfill Unit Landfill Closure Project" dated January 2009, the owner and operator shall:

(i) At 50% final design, submit to EPA for approval an Operations and Maintenance Plan that includes an inspection schedule (at least quarterly) and remediation plan to address any potential rodent damage to the final cover; and

(ii) Achieve re-vegetation rates greater than 50% by the end of the first season and a complete stand of native grasses by the end of the third season.

(5) The owner and operator shall place documentation demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this Section in the operating record.

(6) All other applicable provisions of 40 CFR part 258 remain in effect.
