
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart F - Closure and Post-Closure Care
###### ยง 258.62 Approval of site-specific flexibility requests in Indian country.
####### iv

() All other applicable provisions of this part remain in effect.

(B) [Reserved]

(c) City of Wolf Point Municipal Landfill final cover requirements. Paragraph (c) of this section applies to the City of Wolf Point Landfill Phase 2, a municipal solid waste landfill owned and operated by the City of Wolf Point on the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes' Fort Peck Reservation in Montana. The facility owner and/or operator may close the facility in accordance with this application, including the following activities more generally described as follows:

(1) The owner and operator may install an evapotranspiration system as an alternative final cover for the 3.5-acre Phase 2 area.

(2) The final cover system shall consist of a 4-foot-thick multi-layer cover system comprised of the following from bottom to top: A 12-inch intermediate layer, a 24-inch native silty-clay till layer, and a 12-inch native topsoil layer, as well as seeding and erosion control.

(3) The final cover system shall be constructed to achieve an equivalent reduction in infiltration as the infiltration layer specified in ยง 258.60(a)(1) and (a)(2), and provide an equivalent protection from wind and water erosion as the erosion layer specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(4) In addition to meeting the specifications of "The City of Wolf Point Landfill License #3-Phase 2 Alternative Final Cover Demonstration (Revised)" application of February 9, 2016, the owner and operator shall:

(i) At finalization, submit to the EPA for approval final cover plans and specifications, including the final Construction Quality Assurance/Quality Control Plan and final Closure/Post-Closure Plan; and

(ii) Achieve re-vegetation rates greater than 75% by the end of the third year after revegetation.

(5) The owner and operator shall place documentation demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this section in the operating record.

(6) All other applicable provisions of 40 CFR part 258 remain in effect.
