
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart G - Financial Assurance Criteria
###### ยง 258.74 Allowable mechanisms.
####### face amount

(3) The insurance policy must be issued for a face amount at least equal to the current cost estimate for closure or post-closure care, whichever is applicable, except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section. The termmeans the total amount the insurer is obligated to pay under the policy. Actual payments by the insurer will not change the face amount, although the insurer's future liability will be lowered by the amount of the payments.

(4) An owner or operator, or any other person authorized to conduct closure or post-closure care, may receive reimbursements for closure or post-closure expenditures, whichever is applicable. Requests for reimbursement will be granted by the insurer only if the remaining value of the policy is sufficient to cover the remaining costs of closure or post-closure care, and if justification and documentation of the cost is placed in the operating record. The owner or operator must notify the State Director that the documentation of the justification for reimbursement has been placed in the operating record and that reimbursement has been received.

(5) Each policy must contain a provision allowing assignment of the policy to a successor owner or operator. Such assignment may be conditional upon consent of the insurer, provided that such consent is not unreasonably refused.

(6) The insurance policy must provide that the insurer may not cancel, terminate or fail to renew the policy except for failure to pay the premium. The automatic renewal of the policy must, at a minimum, provide the insured with the option of renewal at the face amount of the expiring policy. If there is a failure to pay the premium, the insurer may cancel the policy by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner and operator and to the State Director 120 days in advance of cancellation. If the insurer cancels the policy, the owner or operator must obtain alternate financial assurance as specified in this section.

(7) For insurance policies providing coverage for post-closure care, commencing on the date that liability to make payments pursuant to the policy accrues, the insurer will thereafter annually increase the face amount of the policy. Such increase must be equivalent to the face amount of the policy, less any payments made, multiplied by an amount equivalent to 85 percent of the most recent investment rate or of the equivalent coupon-issue yield announced by the U.S. Treasury for 26-week Treasury securities.

(8) The owner or operator may cancel the insurance policy only if alternate financial assurance is substituted as specified in this section or if the owner or operator, is no longer required to demonstrate financial responsibility in accordance with the requirements of ยง 258.71(b), ยง 258.72(b) or ยง 258.73(b).
