
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart G - Financial Assurance Criteria
###### § 258.74 Allowable mechanisms.
####### Letter of credit.

(c)(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by obtaining an irrevocable standby letter of credit which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph. The letter of credit must be effective before the initial receipt of waste or before the effective date of the requirements of this section (April 9, 1997, or October 9, 1997 for MSWLF units meeting the conditions of § 258.1(f)(1)), whichever is later, in the case of closure and post-closure care, or no later than 120 days after the corrective action remedy has been selected in accordance with the requirements of § 258.58. The owner or operator must notify the State Director that a copy of the letter of credit has been placed in the operating record. The issuing institution must be an entity which has the authority to issue letters of credit and whose letter-of-credit operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency.

(2) A letter from the owner or operator referring to the letter of credit by number, issuing institution, and date, and providing the following information: Name, and address of the facility, and the amount of funds assured, must be included with the letter of credit in the operating record.

(3) The letter of credit must be irrevocable and issued for a period of at least one year in an amount at least equal to the current cost estimate for closure, post-closure care or corrective action, whichever is applicable, except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section. The letter of credit must provide that the expiration date will be automatically extended for a period of at least one year unless the issuing institution has cancelled the letter of credit by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner and operator and to the State Director 120 days in advance of cancellation. If the letter of credit is cancelled by the issuing institution, the owner or operator must obtain alternate financial assurance.

(4) The owner or operator may cancel the letter of credit only if alternate financial assurance is substituted as specified in this section or if the owner or operator is released from the requirements of this section in accordance with § 258.71(b), § 258.72(b) or § 258.73(b).
