
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart G - Financial Assurance Criteria
###### § 258.74 Allowable mechanisms.
####### Trust Fund.

(a)(1) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing a trust fund which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph. The trustee must be an entity which has the authority to act as a trustee and whose trust operations are regulated and examined by a Federal or State agency. A copy of the trust agreement must be placed in the facility's operating record.

(2) Payments into the trust fund must be made annually by the owner or operator over the term of the initial permit or over the remaining life of the MSWLF unit, whichever is shorter, in the case of a trust fund for closure or post-closure care, or over one-half of the estimated length of the corrective action program in the case of corrective action for known releases. This period is referred to as the pay-in period.

(3) For a trust fund used to demonstrate financial assurance for closure and post-closure care, the first payment into the fund must be at least equal to the current cost estimate for closure or post-closure care, except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, divided by the number of years in the pay-in period as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The amount of subsequent payments must be determined by the following formula:

(4) For a trust fund used to demonstrate financial assurance for corrective action, the first payment into the trust fund must be at least equal to one-half of the current cost estimate for corrective action, except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, divided by the number of years in the corrective action pay-in period as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The amount of subsequent payments must be determined by the following formula:

(5) The initial payment into the trust fund must be made before the initial receipt of waste or before the effective date of the requirements of this section (April 9, 1997, or October 9, 1997 for MSWLF units meeting the conditions of § 258.1(f)(1)), whichever is later, in the case of closure and post-closure care, or no later than 120 days after the corrective action remedy has been selected in accordance with the requirements of § 258.58.

(6) If the owner or operator establishes a trust fund after having used one or more alternate mechanisms specified in this section, the initial payment into the trust fund must be at least the amount that the fund would contain if the trust fund were established initially and annual payments made according to the specifications of this paragraph and paragraph (a) of this section, as applicable.

(7) The owner or operator, or other person authorized to conduct closure, post-closure care, or corrective action activities may request reimbursement from the trustee for these expenditures. Requests for reimbursement will be granted by the trustee only if sufficient funds are remaining in the trust fund to cover the remaining costs of closure, post-closure care, or corrective action, and if justification and documentation of the cost is placed in the operating record. The owner or operator must notify the State Director that the documentation of the justification for reimbursement has been placed in the operating record and that reimbursement has been received.

(8) The trust fund may be terminated by the owner or operator only if the owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section or if he is no longer required to demonstrate financial responsibility in accordance with the requirements of §§ 258.71(b), 258.72(b), or 258.73(b).
