
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart G - Financial Assurance Criteria
###### § 258.74 Allowable mechanisms.
####### Surety Bond Guaranteeing Payment or Performance.

(b)(1) An owner or operator may demonstrate financial assurance for closure or post-closure care by obtaining a payment or performance surety bond which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph. An owner or operator may demonstrate financial assurance for corrective action by obtaining a performance bond which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph. The bond must be effective before the initial receipt of waste or before the effective date of the requirements of this section (April 9, 1997, or October 9, 1997 for MSWLF units meeting the conditions of § 258.1(f)(1)), whichever is later, in the case of closure and post-closure care, or no later than 120 days after the corrective action remedy has been selected in accordance with the requirements of § 258.58. The owner or operator must notify the State Director that a copy of the bond has been placed in the operating record. The surety company issuing the bond must, at a minimum, be among those listed as acceptable sureties on Federal bonds in Circular 570 of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.

(2) The penal sum of the bond must be in an amount at least equal to the current closure, post-closure care or corrective action cost estimate, whichever is applicable, except as provided in § 258.74(k).

(3) Under the terms of the bond, the surety will become liable on the bond obligation when the owner or operator fails to perform as guaranteed by the bond.

(4) The owner or operator must establish a standby trust fund. The standby trust fund must meet the requirements of § 258.74(a) except the requirements for initial payment and subsequent annual payments specified in § 258.74 (a)(2), (3), (4) and (5).

(5) Payments made under the terms of the bond will be deposited by the surety directly into the standby trust fund. Payments from the trust fund must be approved by the trustee.

(6) Under the terms of the bond, the surety may cancel the bond by sending notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner and operator and to the State Director 120 days in advance of cancellation. If the surety cancels the bond, the owner or operator must obtain alternate financial assurance as specified in this section.

(7) The owner or operator may cancel the bond only if alternate financial assurance is substituted as specified in this section or if the owner or operator is no longer required to demonstrate financial responsibility in accordance with § 258.71(b), § 258.72(b) or § 258.73(b).
