
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart G - Financial Assurance Criteria
###### § 258.71 Financial assurance for closure.

(a) The owner or operator must have a detailed written estimate, in current dollars, of the cost of hiring a third party to close the largest area of all MSWLF units ever requiring a final cover as required under § 258.60 at any time during the active life in accordance with the closure plan. The owner or operator must notify the State Director that the estimate has been placed in the operating record.

(1) The cost estimate must equal the cost of closing the largest area of all MSWLF unit ever requiring a final cover at any time during the active life when the extent and manner of its operation would make closure the most expensive, as indicated by its closure plan (see § 258.60(c)(2) of this part).

(2) During the active life of the MSWLF unit, the owner or operator must annually adjust the closure cost estimate for inflation.

(3) The owner or operator must increase the closure cost estimate and the amount of financial assurance provided under paragraph (b) of this section if changes to the closure plan or MSWLF unit conditions increase the maximum cost of closure at any time during the remaining active life.

(4) The owner or operator may reduce the closure cost estimate and the amount of financial assurance provided under paragraph (b) of this section if the cost estimate exceeds the maximum cost of closure at any time during the remaining life of the MSWLF unit. The owner or operator must notify the State Director that the justification for the reduction of the closure cost estimate and the amount of financial assurance has been placed in the operating record.

(b) The owner or operator of each MSWLF unit must establish financial assurance for closure of the MSWLF unit in compliance with § 258.74. The owner or operator must provide continuous coverage for closure until released from financial assurance requirements by demonstrating compliance with § 258.60 (h) and (i).
