
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart G - Financial Assurance Criteria
###### ยง 258.74 Allowable mechanisms.
####### Insurance.

(d)(1) An owner or operator may demonstrate financial assurance for closure and post-closure care by obtaining insurance which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph. The insurance must be effective before the initial receipt of waste or before the effective date of the requirements of this section (April 9, 1997, or October 9, 1997 for MSWLF units meeting the conditions of ยง 258.1(f)(1)), whichever is later, in the case of closure and post-closure care, or no later than 120 days after the corrective action remedy has been selected in accordance with the requirements of ยง 258.58. At a minimum, the insurer must be licensed to transact the business of insurance, or eligible to provide insurance as an excess or surplus lines insurer, in one or more States. The owner or operator must notify the State Director that a copy of the insurance policy has been placed in the operating record.

(2) The closure or post-closure care insurance policy must guarantee that funds will be available to close the MSWLF unit whenever final closure occurs or to provide post-closure care for the MSWLF unit whenever the post-closure care period begins, whichever is applicable. The policy must also guarantee that once closure or post-closure care begins, the insurer will be responsible for the paying out of funds to the owner or operator or other person authorized to conduct closure or post-closure care, up to an amount equal to the face amount of the policy.
