
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 258 - CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
##### Subpart G - Financial Assurance Criteria
###### § 258.72 Financial assurance for post-closure care.

(a) The owner or operator must have a detailed written estimate, in current dollars, of the cost of hiring a third party to conduct post-closure care for the MSWLF unit in compliance with the post-closure plan developed under § 258.61 of this part. The post-closure cost estimate used to demonstrate financial assurance in paragraph (b) of this section must account for the total costs of conducting post-closure care, including annual and periodic costs as described in the post-closure plan over the entire post-closure care period. The owner or operator must notify the State Director that the estimate has been placed in the operating record.

(1) The cost estimate for post-closure care must be based on the most expensive costs of post-closure care during the post-closure care period.

(2) During the active life of the MSWLF unit and during the post-closure care period, the owner or operator must annually adjust the post-closure cost estimate for inflation.

(3) The owner or operator must increase the post-closure care cost estimate and the amount of financial assurance provided under paragraph (b) of this section if changes in the post-closure plan or MSWLF unit conditions increase the maximum costs of post-closure care.

(4) The owner or operator may reduce the post-closure cost estimate and the amount of financial assurance provided under paragraph (b) of this section if the cost estimate exceeds the maximum costs of post-closure care remaining over the post-closure care period. The owner or operator must notify the State Director that the justification for the reduction of the post-closure cost estimate and the amount of financial assurance has been placed in the operating record.

(b) The owner or operator of each MSWLF unit must establish, in a manner in accordance with § 258.74, financial assurance for the costs of post-closure care as required under § 258.61 of this part. The owner or operator must provide continuous coverage for post-closure care until released from financial assurance requirements for post-closure care by demonstrating compliance with § 258.61(e).
