
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 260 - HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: GENERAL
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 260.1 Purpose, scope, and applicability.

(a) This part provides definitions of terms, general standards, and overview information applicable to parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter.

(b) In this part: (1) Section 260.2 sets forth the rules that EPA will use in making information it receives available to the public and sets forth the requirements that generators, transporters, or owners or operators of treatment, storage, or disposal facilities must follow to assert claims of business confidentiality with respect to information that is submitted to EPA under parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter.

(2) Section 260.3 establishes rules of grammatical construction for parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter.

(3) Section 260.10 defines terms which are used in parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter.

(4) Section 260.20 establishes procedures for petitioning EPA to amend, modify, or revoke any provision of parts 260 through 265 and 268 of this chapter and establishes procedures governing EPA's action on such petitions.

(5) Section 260.21 establishes procedures for petitioning EPA to approve testing methods as equivalent to those prescribed in parts 261, 264, or 265 of this chapter.

(6) Section 260.22 establishes procedures for petitioning EPA to amend subpart D of part 261 to exclude a waste from a particular facility.
