
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### 7. Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards.

"Field Data Forms and Instructions for EPA Methods 203A, 203B, and 203C." EPA 455/R-93-005. Stationary Source Compliance Division, Washington, DC, June 1993.

Method 203B is an example test method suitable for State Implementation Plans (SIPs) and is applicable to the determination of the opacity of emissions from sources of visible emissions for time-exception regulations. A time-exception regulation means any regulation that allows predefined periods of opacity above the otherwise applicable opacity limit (e.g., allowing exceedances of 20 percent opacity for 3 minutes in 1 hour.)

Method 203B is virtually identical to EPA's Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, except for the data-reduction procedures, which have been modified to apply to time-exception regulations. The certification procedures for this method are identical to those provided in Method 9. An example of a visible emission observation form and instructions for its use can be found in reference 7 of Section 17 of Method 203A.

The opacity of emissions from sources of visible emissions is determined visually by a qualified observer.

The same as specified in Section 6.0 of Method 203A.

The observer qualified in accordance with Section 10 of Method 203A must use the following procedures for visually determining the opacity of emissions.
