
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### 12.2 Reduce opacity observations by averaging 12 consecutive observations recorded at 5-second intervals.

Divide the observations recorded on the record sheet into sets of 12 consecutive observations. For each set of 12 observations, calculate the average by summing the opacity of the 12 observations and dividing this sum by 12.

The results of the "Collaborative Study of Opacity Observations at Five-second Intervals by Certified Observers" are almost identical to those of previous studies of Method 9 observations taken at 15-second intervals and indicate that observers can make valid observations at 5-second intervals. The average difference of all observations from the transmissometer values was 8.8 percent opacity, which shows a fairly high negative bias. Underestimating the opacity of the visible emissions is more likely than overestimating the opacity of the emissions.

The references are the same as references 1-7 in Method 203A in addition to the following:

1. Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. "Collaborative Study of Opacity Observations at Five-second Intervals by Certified Observers." Docket A-84-22, IV-A-2. Emission Measurement Branch, Research Triangle Park, N.C. September 1990.

This procedure is used to determine whether a permanent or temporary enclosure meets the criteria for a total enclosure. An existing building may be used as a temporary or permanent enclosure as long as it meets the appropriate criteria described in this method.

An enclosure is evaluated against a set of criteria. If the criteria are met and if all the exhaust gases from the enclosure are ducted to a control device, then the volatile organic compounds (VOC) capture efficiency (CE) is assumed to be 100 percent, and CE need not be measured. However, if part of the exhaust gas stream is not ducted to a control device, CE must be determined.

3.1 Natural Draft Opening (NDO). Any permanent opening in the enclosure that remains open during operation of the facility and is not connected to a duct in which a fan is installed.

3.2 Permanent Total Enclosure (PE). A permanently installed enclosure that completely surrounds a source of emissions such that all VOC emissions are captured and contained for discharge to a control device.
