
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 260 - HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: GENERAL
##### Subpart C - Rulemaking Petitions
###### § 260.33 Procedures for variances from classification as a solid waste, for variances to be classified as a boiler, or for non-waste determinations.

The Administrator will use the following procedures in evaluating applications for variances from classification as a solid waste, applications to classify particular enclosed controlled flame combustion devices as boilers, or applications for non-waste determinations.

(a) The applicant must apply to the Administrator for the variance or non-waste determination. The application must address the relevant criteria contained in § 260.31, § 260.32, or § 260.34, as applicable.

(b) The Administrator will evaluate the application and issue a draft notice tentatively granting or denying the application. Notification of this tentative decision will be provided by newspaper advertisement or radio broadcast in the locality where the recycler is located. The Administrator will accept comment on the tentative decision for 30 days, and may also hold a public hearing upon request or at his discretion. The Administrator will issue a final decision after receipt of comments and after the hearing (if any).

(c) In the event of a change in circumstances that affect how a hazardous secondary material meets the relevant criteria contained in § 260.31, § 260.32, or § 260.34 upon which a variance or non-waste determination has been based, the applicant must send a description of the change in circumstances to the Administrator. The Administrator may issue a determination that the hazardous secondary material continues to meet the relevant criteria of the variance or non-waste determination or may require the facility to re-apply for the variance or non-waste determination.

(d) Variances and non-waste determinations shall be effective for a fixed term not to exceed ten years. No later than six months prior to the end of this term, facilities must re-apply for a variance or non-waste determination. If a facility re-applies for a variance or non-waste determination within six months, the facility may continue to operate under an expired variance or non-waste determination until receiving a decision on their re-application from the Administrator.

(e) Facilities receiving a variance or non-waste determination must provide notification as required by § 260.42 of this chapter.
