
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### i.e.

3.3 Temporary Total Enclosure (TTE). A temporarily installed enclosure that completely surrounds a source of emissions such that all VOC emissions that are not directed through the control device (, uncaptured) are captured by the enclosure and contained for discharge through ducts that allow for the accurate measurement of the uncaptured VOC emissions.

3.4 Building Enclosure (BE). An existing building that is used as a TTE.

An evaluation of the proposed building materials and the design for the enclosure is recommended to minimize any potential hazards.

5.1 Any NDO shall be at least four equivalent opening diameters from each VOC emitting point unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.

5.2 Any exhaust point from the enclosure shall be at least four equivalent duct or hood diameters from each NDO.

5.3 The total area of all NDO's shall not exceed 5 percent of the surface area of the enclosure's four walls, floor, and ceiling.

5.4 The average facial velocity (FV) of air through all NDO's shall be at least 3,600 m/hr (200 fpm). The direction of air flow through all NDO's shall be into the enclosure.

5.5 All access doors and windows whose areas are not included in section 5.3 and are not included in the calculation in section 5.4 shall be closed during routine operation of the process.

6.1 Same as sections 5.1 and 5.3 through 5.5.

6.2 All VOC emissions must be captured and contained for discharge through a control device.
