
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 260 - HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: GENERAL
##### Subpart C - Rulemaking Petitions
###### ยง 260.23 Petitions to amend 40 CFR part 273 to include additional hazardous wastes.

(a) Any person seeking to add a hazardous waste or a category of hazardous waste to the universal waste regulations of part 273 of this chapter may petition for a regulatory amendment under this section, 40 CFR 260.20, and subpart G of 40 CFR part 273.

(b) To be successful, the petitioner must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that regulation under the universal waste regulations of 40 CFR part 273: Is appropriate for the waste or category of waste; will improve management practices for the waste or category of waste; and will improve implementation of the hazardous waste program. The petition must include the information required by 40 CFR 260.20(b). The petition should also address as many of the factors listed in 40 CFR 273.81 as are appropriate for the waste or category of waste addressed in the petition.

(c) The Administrator will grant or deny a petition using the factors listed in 40 CFR 273.81. The decision will be based on the weight of evidence showing that regulation under 40 CFR part 273 is appropriate for the waste or category of waste, will improve management practices for the waste or category of waste, and will improve implementation of the hazardous waste program.

(d) The Administrator may request additional information needed to evaluate the merits of the petition.
