
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 260 - HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: GENERAL
##### Subpart C - Rulemaking Petitions
###### ยง 260.41 Procedures for case-by-case regulation of hazardous waste recycling activities.

The Regional Administrator will use the following procedures when determining whether to regulate hazardous waste recycling activities described in ยง 261.6(a)(2)(iii) under the provisions of ยง 261.6 (b) and (c), rather than under the provisions of subpart F of part 266 of this chapter.

(a) If a generator is accumulating the waste, the Regional Administrator will issue a notice setting forth the factual basis for the decision and stating that the person must comply with the applicable requirements of subparts A, C, D, and E of part 262 of this chapter. The notice will become final within 30 days, unless the person served requests a public hearing to challenge the decision. Upon receiving such a request, the Regional Administrator will hold a public hearing. The Regional Administrator will provide notice of the hearing to the public and allow public participation at the hearing. The Regional Administrator will issue a final order after the hearing stating whether or not compliance with part 262 is required. The order becomes effective 30 days after service of the decision unless the Regional Administrator specifies a later date or unless review by the Administrator is requested. The order may be appealed to the Administrator by any person who participated in the public hearing. The Administrator may choose to grant or to deny the appeal. Final Agency action occurs when a final order is issued and Agency review procedures are exhausted.

(b) If the person is accumulating the recyclable material as a storage facility, the notice will state that the person must obtain a permit in accordance with all applicable provisions of parts 270 and 124 of this chapter. The owner or operator of the facility must apply for a permit within no less than 60 days and no more than six months of notice, as specified in the notice. If the owner or operator of the facility wishes to challenge the Regional Administrator's decision, he may do so in his permit application, in a public hearing held on the draft permit, or in comments filed on the draft permit or on the notice of intent to deny the permit. The fact sheet accompanying the permit will specify the reasons for the Agency's determination. The question of whether the Regional Administrator's decision was proper will remain open for consideration during the public comment period discussed under ยง 124.11 of this chapter and in any subsequent hearing.
