
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### i.e.

7.2 Estimate the ventilation rate of the TTE that best simulates the conditions that exist without the TTE (, the effect of the TTE on the normal flow patterns around the affected facility or the amount of uncaptured VOC emissions should be minimal). Figure 204-1 or the following equation may be used as an aid.

7.3 Monitor the VOC concentration of the captured gas steam in the duct before the capture device without the TTE. To minimize the effect of temporal variation on the captured emissions, the baseline measurement should be made over as long a time period as practical. However, the process conditions must be the same for the measurement in section 7.5 as they are for this baseline measurement. This may require short measuring times for this quality control check before and after the construction of the TTE.

7.4 After the TTE is constructed, monitor the VOC concentration inside the TTE. This concentration should not continue to increase, and must not exceed the safe level according to Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements for permissible exposure limits. An increase in VOC concentration indicates poor TTE design.

7.5 Monitor the VOC concentration of the captured gas stream in the duct before the capture device with the TTE. To limit the effect of the TTE on the process, the VOC concentration with and without the TTE must be within 10 percent. If the measurements do not agree, adjust the ventilation rate from the TTE until they agree within 10 percent.

8.1 Determine the equivalent diameters of the NDO's and determine the distances from each VOC emitting point to all NDO's. Determine the equivalent diameter of each exhaust duct or hood and its distance to all NDO's. Calculate the distances in terms of equivalent diameters. The number of equivalent diameters shall be at least four.

8.2 Measure the total surface area (A) of the enclosure and the total area (A) of all NDO's in the enclosure. Calculate the NDO to enclosure area ratio (NEAR) as follows:

8.3 Measure the volumetric flow rate, corrected to standard conditions, of each gas stream exiting the enclosure through an exhaust duct or hood using EPA Method 2. In some cases (e.g., when the building is the enclosure), it may be necessary to measure the volumetric flow rate, corrected to standard conditions, of each gas stream entering the enclosure through a forced makeup air duct using Method 2. Calculate FV using the following equation:

The FV shall be at least 3,600 m/hr (200 fpm). Alternatively, measure the pressure differential across the enclosure. A pressure drop of 0.013 mm Hg (0.007 in. HO) corresponds to an FV of 3,600 m/hr (200 fpm).

8.4 Verify that the direction of air flow through all NDO's is inward. If FV is less than 9,000 m/hr (500 fpm), the continuous inward flow of air shall be verified using streamers, smoke tubes, or tracer gases. Monitor the direction of air flow for at least 1 hour, with checks made no more than 10 minutes apart. If FV is greater than 9,000 m/hr (500 fpm), the direction of air flow through the NDOs shall be presumed to be inward at all times without verification.

1.1 Applicability. This procedure is applicable for determining the input of volatile organic compounds (VOC). It is intended to be used in the development of liquid/gas protocols for determining VOC capture efficiency (CE) for surface coating and printing operations.

1.2 Principle. The amount of VOC introduced to the process (L) is the sum of the products of the weight (W) of each VOC containing liquid (ink, paint, solvent, etc.) used and its VOC content (V).

1.3 Sampling Requirements. A CE test shall consist of at least three sampling runs. Each run shall cover at least one complete production cycle, but shall be at least 3 hours long. The sampling time for each run need not exceed 8 hours, even if the production cycle has not been completed. Alternative sampling times may be used with the approval of the Administrator.

The amount of VOC containing liquid introduced to the process is determined as the weight difference of the feed material before and after each sampling run. The VOC content of the liquid input material is determined by volatilizing a small aliquot of the material and analyzing the volatile material using a flame ionization analyzer (FIA). A sample of each VOC containing liquid is analyzed with an FIA to determine V.

Because this procedure is often applied in highly explosive areas, caution and care should be exercised in choosing, installing, and using the appropriate equipment.

Mention of trade names or company products does not constitute endorsement. All gas concentrations (percent, ppm) are by volume, unless otherwise noted.

4.1 Liquid Weight.

4.1.1 Balances/Digital Scales. To weigh drums of VOC containing liquids to within 0.2 lb or 1.0 percent of the total weight of VOC liquid used.

4.1.2 Volume Measurement Apparatus (Alternative). Volume meters, flow meters, density measurement equipment, etc., as needed to achieve the same accuracy as direct weight measurements.

4.2 VOC Content (FIA Technique). The liquid sample analysis system is shown in Figures 204A-1 and 204A-2. The following equipment is required:

4.2.1 Sample Collection Can. An appropriately-sized metal can to be used to collect VOC containing materials. The can must be constructed in such a way that it can be grounded to the coating container.

4.2.2 Needle Valves. To control gas flow.

4.2.3 Regulators. For carrier gas and calibration gas cylinders.

4.2.4 Tubing. Teflon or stainless steel tubing with diameters and lengths determined by connection requirements of equipment. The tubing between the sample oven outlet and the FIA shall be heated to maintain a temperature of 120 +/-5 &#xB0;C.

4.2.5 Atmospheric Vent. A tee and 0- to 0.5-liter/min rotameter placed in the sampling line between the carrier gas cylinder and the VOC sample vessel to release the excess carrier gas. A toggle valve placed between the tee and the rotameter facilitates leak tests of the analysis system.

4.2.6 Thermometer. Capable of measuring the temperature of the hot water bath to within 1 &#xB0;C.

4.2.7 Sample Oven. Heated enclosure, containing calibration gas coil heaters, critical orifice, aspirator, and other liquid sample analysis components, capable of maintaining a temperature of 120 +/-5 &#xB0;C.

4.2.8 Gas Coil Heaters. Sufficient lengths of stainless steel or Teflon tubing to allow zero and calibration gases to be heated to the sample oven temperature before entering the critical orifice or aspirator.

4.2.9 Water Bath. Capable of heating and maintaining a sample vessel temperature of 100 +/-5 &#xB0;C.

4.2.10 Analytical Balance. To measure +/-0.001 g.

4.2.11 Disposable Syringes. 2-cc or 5-cc.

4.2.12 Sample Vessel. Glass, 40-ml septum vial. A separate vessel is needed for each sample.

4.2.13 Rubber Stopper. Two-hole stopper to accommodate 3.2-mm (-in.) Teflon tubing, appropriately sized to fit the opening of the sample vessel. The rubber stopper should be wrapped in Teflon tape to provide a tighter seal and to prevent any reaction of the sample with the rubber stopper. Alternatively, any leak-free closure fabricated of nonreactive materials and accommodating the necessary tubing fittings may be used.

4.2.14 Critical Orifices. Calibrated critical orifices capable of providing constant flow rates from 50 to 250 ml/min at known pressure drops. Sapphire orifice assemblies (available from O'Keefe Controls Company) and glass capillary tubing have been found to be adequate for this application.

4.2.15 Vacuum Gauge. Zero to 760-mm (0- to 30-in.) Hg U-Tube manometer or vacuum gauge.

4.2.16 Pressure Gauge. Bourdon gauge capable of measuring the maximum air pressure at the aspirator inlet (e.g., 100 psig).

4.2.17 Aspirator. A device capable of generating sufficient vacuum at the sample vessel to create critical flow through the calibrated orifice when sufficient air pressure is present at the aspirator inlet. The aspirator must also provide sufficient sample pressure to operate the FIA. The sample is also mixed with the dilution gas within the aspirator.

4.2.18 Soap Bubble Meter. Of an appropriate size to calibrate the critical orifices in the system.

4.2.19 Organic Concentration Analyzer. An FIA with a span value of 1.5 times the expected concentration as propane; however, other span values may be used if it can be demonstrated that they would provide more accurate measurements. The FIA instrument should be the same instrument used in the gaseous analyses adjusted with the same fuel, combustion air, and sample back-pressure (flow rate) settings. The system shall be capable of meeting or exceeding the following specifications:

4.2.19.1 Zero Drift. Less than +/-3.0 percent of the span value.

4.2.19.2 Calibration Drift. Less than +/-3.0 percent of the span value.

4.2.19.3 Calibration Error. Less than +/-5.0 percent of the calibration gas value.

4.2.20 Integrator/Data Acquisition System. An analog or digital device or computerized data acquisition system used to integrate the FIA response or compute the average response and record measurement data. The minimum data sampling frequency for computing average or integrated values is one measurement value every 5 seconds. The device shall be capable of recording average values at least once per minute.

4.2.21 Chart Recorder (Optional). A chart recorder or similar device is recommended to provide a continuous analog display of the measurement results during the liquid sample analysis.

5.1 Calibration and Other Gases. Gases used for calibration, fuel, and combustion air (if required) are contained in compressed gas cylinders. All calibration gases shall be traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology standards and shall be certified by the manufacturer to +/-1 percent of the tag value. Additionally, the manufacturer of the cylinder should provide a recommended shelf life for each calibration gas cylinder over which the concentration does not change more than +/-2 percent from the certified value. For calibration gas values not generally available, dilution systems calibrated using Method 205 may be used. Alternative methods for preparing calibration gas mixtures may be used with the approval of the Administrator.

5.1.1 Fuel. The FIA manufacturer's recommended fuel should be used. A 40 percent H2/60 percent He or 40 percent H/60 percent Ngas mixture is recommended to avoid an oxygen synergism effect that reportedly occurs when oxygen concentration varies significantly from a mean value. Other mixtures may be used provided the tester can demonstrate to the Administrator that there is no oxygen synergism effect.

5.1.2 Carrier Gas. High purity air with less than 1 ppm of organic material (as propane) or less than 0.1 percent of the span value, whichever is greater.

5.1.3 FIA Linearity Calibration Gases. Low-, mid-, and high-range gas mixture standards with nominal propane concentrations of 20-30, 45-55, and 70-80 percent of the span value in air, respectively. Other calibration values and other span values may be used if it can be shown to the Administrator's satisfaction that equally accurate measurements would be achieved.

5.1.4 System Calibration Gas. Gas mixture standard containing propane in air, approximating the undiluted VOC concentration expected for the liquid samples.

6.1 Samples must be collected in a manner that prevents or minimizes loss of volatile components and that does not contaminate the coating reservoir.

6.2 Collect a 100-ml or larger sample of the VOC containing liquid mixture at each application location at the beginning and end of each test run. A separate sample should be taken of each VOC containing liquid added to the application mixture during the test run. If a fresh drum is needed during the sampling run, then obtain a sample from the fresh drum.

6.3 When collecting the sample, ground the sample container to the coating drum. Fill the sample container as close to the rim as possible to minimize the amount of headspace.

6.4 After the sample is collected, seal the container so the sample cannot leak out or evaporate.

6.5 Label the container to clearly identify the contents.

7.1 Required instrument quality control parameters are found in the following sections:

7.1.1 The FIA system must be calibrated as specified in section 8.1.

7.1.2 The system drift check must be performed as specified in section 8.2.

8.1 FIA Calibration and Linearity Check. Make necessary adjustments to the air and fuel supplies for the FIA and ignite the burner. Allow the FIA to warm up for the period recommended by the manufacturer. Inject a calibration gas into the measurement system and adjust the back-pressure regulator to the value required to achieve the flow rates specified by the manufacturer. Inject the zero- and the high-range calibration gases and adjust the analyzer calibration to provide the proper responses. Inject the low- and mid-range gases and record the responses of the measurement system. The calibration and linearity of the system are acceptable if the responses for all four gases are within 5 percent of the respective gas values. If the performance of the system is not acceptable, repair or adjust the system and repeat the linearity check. Conduct a calibration and linearity check after assembling the analysis system and after a major change is made to the system.

8.2 Systems Drift Checks. After each sample, repeat the system calibration checks in section 9.2.7 before any adjustments to the FIA or measurement system are made. If the zero or calibration drift exceeds +/-3 percent of the span value, discard the result and repeat the analysis.
