
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### i.e.,i.e.

9.2.12 Continuously measure and record the response of the FIA until all of the volatile material has been evaporated from the sample and the instrument response has returned to the baseline (, response less than 0.5 percent of the span value). Observe the aspirator supply pressure, FIA back-pressure, atmospheric vent, and other system operating parameters during the run; repeat the analysis procedure if any of these parameters deviate from the values established during the system calibration checks in section 9.2.7. After each sample, perform the drift check described in section 8.2. If the drift check results are acceptable, calculate the VOC content of the sample using the equations in section 11.2. Alternatively, recalibrate the FIA as in section 8.1 and report the results using both sets of calibration data (, data determined prior to the test period and data determined following the test period). The data that results in the lowest CE value shall be reported as the results for the test run. Integrate the area under the FIA response curve, or determine the average concentration response and the duration of sample analysis.

10.1 Nomenclature.

10.2 Calculations

10.2.1 Total VOC Content of the Input VOC Containing Liquid.

10.2.2 Liquid Sample Analysis System Response Factor for Systems Using Integrators, Grams/Area Count.

10.2.3 VOC Content of the Liquid Sample.

The measurement uncertainties are estimated for each VOC containing liquid as follows: W = +/-2.0 percent and V = +/-4.0 percent. Based on these numbers, the probable uncertainty for L is estimated at about +/-4.5 percent for each VOC containing liquid.

1.1 Applicability. This procedure is applicable for determining the volatile organic compounds (VOC) content of captured gas streams. It is intended to be used in the development of a gas/gas protocol for determining VOC capture efficiency (CE) for surface coating and printing operations. The procedure may not be acceptable in certain site-specific situations [e.g., when: (1) direct-fired heaters or other circumstances affect the quantity of VOC at the control device inlet; and (2) particulate organic aerosols are formed in the process and are present in the captured emissions].

1.2 Principle. The amount of VOC captured (G) is calculated as the sum of the products of the VOC content (C), the flow rate (Q), and the sample time (Θ) from each captured emissions point.

1.3 Sampling Requirements. A CE test shall consist of at least three sampling runs. Each run shall cover at least one complete production cycle, but shall be at least 3 hours long. The sampling time for each run need not exceed 8 hours, even if the production cycle has not been completed. Alternative sampling times may be used with the approval of the Administrator.

A gas sample is extracted from the source though a heated sample line and, if necessary, a glass fiber filter to a flame ionization analyzer (FIA).

Because this procedure is often applied in highly explosive areas, caution and care should be exercised in choosing, installing, and using the appropriate equipment.

Mention of trade names or company products does not constitute endorsement. All gas concentrations (percent, ppm) are by volume, unless otherwise noted.

4.1 Gas VOC Concentration. A schematic of the measurement system is shown in Figure 204B-1. The main components are as follows:

4.1.1 Sample Probe. Stainless steel or equivalent. The probe shall be heated to prevent VOC condensation.

4.1.2 Calibration Valve Assembly. Three-way valve assembly at the outlet of the sample probe to direct the zero and calibration gases to the analyzer. Other methods, such as quick-connect lines, to route calibration gases to the outlet of the sample probe are acceptable.

4.1.3 Sample Line. Stainless steel or Teflon tubing to transport the sample gas to the analyzer. The sample line must be heated to prevent condensation.

4.1.4 Sample Pump. A leak-free pump, to pull the sample gas through the system at a flow rate sufficient to minimize the response time of the measurement system. The components of the pump that contact the gas stream shall be constructed of stainless steel or Teflon. The sample pump must be heated to prevent condensation.

4.1.5 Sample Flow Rate Control. A sample flow rate control valve and rotameter, or equivalent, to maintain a constant sampling rate within 10 percent. The flow rate control valve and rotameter must be heated to prevent condensation. A control valve may also be located on the sample pump bypass loop to assist in controlling the sample pressure and flow rate.

4.1.6 Organic Concentration Analyzer. An FIA with a span value of 1.5 times the expected concentration as propane; however, other span values may be used if it can be demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction that they would provide equally accurate measurements. The system shall be capable of meeting or exceeding the following specifications:

4.1.6.1 Zero Drift. Less than +/-3.0 percent of the span value.

4.1.6.2 Calibration Drift. Less than +/-3.0 percent of the span value.

4.1.6.3 Calibration Error. Less than +/-5.0 percent of the calibration gas value.

4.1.6.4 Response Time. Less than 30 seconds.

4.1.7 Integrator/Data Acquisition System. An analog or digital device, or computerized data acquisition system used to integrate the FIA response or compute the average response and record measurement data. The minimum data sampling frequency for computing average or integrated values is one measurement value every 5 seconds. The device shall be capable of recording average values at least once per minute.

4.2 Captured Emissions Volumetric Flow Rate.

4.2.1 Method 2 or 2A Apparatus. For determining volumetric flow rate.

4.2.2 Method 3 Apparatus and Reagents. For determining molecular weight of the gas stream. An estimate of the molecular weight of the gas stream may be used if approved by the Administrator.

4.2.3 Method 4 Apparatus and Reagents. For determining moisture content, if necessary.

5.1 Calibration and Other Gases. Gases used for calibration, fuel, and combustion air (if required) are contained in compressed gas cylinders. All calibration gases shall be traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology standards and shall be certified by the manufacturer to +/-1 percent of the tag value. Additionally, the manufacturer of the cylinder should provide a recommended shelf life for each calibration gas cylinder over which the concentration does not change more than +/-2 percent from the certified value. For calibration gas values not generally available, dilution systems calibrated using Method 205 may be used. Alternative methods for preparing calibration gas mixtures may be used with the approval of the Administrator.

5.1.1 Fuel. The FIA manufacturer's recommended fuel should be used. A 40 percent H/60 percent He or 40 percent H/60 percent Ngas mixture is recommended to avoid an oxygen synergism effect that reportedly occurs when oxygen concentration varies significantly from a mean value. Other mixtures may be used provided the tester can demonstrate to the Administrator that there is no oxygen synergism effect.

5.1.2 Carrier Gas. High purity air with less than 1 ppm of organic material (as propane or carbon equivalent) or less than 0.1 percent of the span value, whichever is greater.

5.1.3 FIA Linearity Calibration Gases. Low-, mid-, and high-range gas mixture standards with nominal propane concentrations of 20-30, 45-55, and 70-80 percent of the span value in air, respectively. Other calibration values and other span values may be used if it can be shown to the Administrator's satisfaction that equally accurate measurements would be achieved.

5.2 Particulate Filter. An in-stack or an out-of-stack glass fiber filter is recommended if exhaust gas particulate loading is significant. An out-of-stack filter must be heated to prevent any condensation unless it can be demonstrated that no condensation occurs.

6.1 Required instrument quality control parameters are found in the following sections:

6.1.1 The FIA system must be calibrated as specified in section 7.1.

6.1.2 The system drift check must be performed as specified in section 7.2.

6.1.3 The system check must be conducted as specified in section 7.3.

7.1 FIA Calibration and Linearity Check. Make necessary adjustments to the air and fuel supplies for the FIA and ignite the burner. Allow the FIA to warm up for the period recommended by the manufacturer. Inject a calibration gas into the measurement system and adjust the back-pressure regulator to the value required to achieve the flow rates specified by the manufacturer. Inject the zero-and the high-range calibration gases and adjust the analyzer calibration to provide the proper responses. Inject the low- and mid-range gases and record the responses of the measurement system. The calibration and linearity of the system are acceptable if the responses for all four gases are within 5 percent of the respective gas values. If the performance of the system is not acceptable, repair or adjust the system and repeat the linearity check. Conduct a calibration and linearity check after assembling the analysis system and after a major change is made to the system.
