
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 261.4 Exclusions.
####### Samples Undergoing Treatability Studies at Laboratories and Testing Facilities.

(f)Samples undergoing treatability studies and the laboratory or testing facility conducting such treatability studies (to the extent such facilities are not otherwise subject to RCRA requirements) are not subject to any requirement of this part, part 124, parts 262-266, 268, and 270, or to the notification requirements of Section 3010 of RCRA provided that the conditions of paragraphs (f) (1) through (11) of this section are met. A mobile treatment unit (MTU) may qualify as a testing facility subject to paragraphs (f) (1) through (11) of this section. Where a group of MTUs are located at the same site, the limitations specified in (f) (1) through (11) of this section apply to the entire group of MTUs collectively as if the group were one MTU.

(1) No less than 45 days before conducting treatability studies, the facility notifies the Regional Administrator, or State Director (if located in an authorized State), in writing that it intends to conduct treatability studies under this paragraph.

(2) The laboratory or testing facility conducting the treatability study has an EPA identification number.

(3) No more than a total of 10,000 kg of "as received" media contaminated with non-acute hazardous waste, 2500 kg of media contaminated with acute hazardous waste or 250 kg of other "as received" hazardous waste is subject to initiation of treatment in all treatability studies in any single day. "As received" waste refers to the waste as received in the shipment from the generator or sample collector.

(4) The quantity of "as received" hazardous waste stored at the facility for the purpose of evaluation in treatability studies does not exceed 10,000 kg, the total of which can include 10,000 kg of media contaminated with non-acute hazardous waste, 2500 kg of media contaminated with acute hazardous waste, 1000 kg of non-acute hazardous wastes other than contaminated media, and 1 kg of acute hazardous waste. This quantity limitation does not include treatment materials (including nonhazardous solid waste) added to "as received" hazardous waste.

(5) No more than 90 days have elapsed since the treatability study for the sample was completed, or no more than one year (two years for treatability studies involving bioremediation) have elapsed since the generator or sample collector shipped the sample to the laboratory or testing facility, whichever date first occurs. Up to 500 kg of treated material from a particular waste stream from treatability studies may be archived for future evaluation up to five years from the date of initial receipt. Quantities of materials archived are counted against the total storage limit for the facility.

(6) The treatability study does not involve the placement of hazardous waste on the land or open burning of hazardous waste.

(7) The facility maintains records for 3 years following completion of each study that show compliance with the treatment rate limits and the storage time and quantity limits. The following specific information must be included for each treatability study conducted:

(i) The name, address, and EPA identification number of the generator or sample collector of each waste sample;

(ii) The date the shipment was received;

(iii) The quantity of waste accepted;

(iv) The quantity of "as received" waste in storage each day;

(v) The date the treatment study was initiated and the amount of "as received" waste introduced to treatment each day;

(vi) The date the treatability study was concluded;

(vii) The date any unused sample or residues generated from the treatability study were returned to the generator or sample collector or, if sent to a designated facility, the name of the facility and the EPA identification number.

(8) The facility keeps, on-site, a copy of the treatability study contract and all shipping papers associated with the transport of treatability study samples to and from the facility for a period ending 3 years from the completion date of each treatability study.

(9) The facility prepares and submits a report to the Regional Administrator, or state Director (if located in an authorized state), by March 15 of each year, that includes the following information for the previous calendar year:

(i) The name, address, and EPA identification number of the facility conducting the treatability studies;

(ii) The types (by process) of treatability studies conducted;

(iii) The names and addresses of persons for whom studies have been conducted (including their EPA identification numbers);

(iv) The total quantity of waste in storage each day;

(v) The quantity and types of waste subjected to treatability studies;

(vi) When each treatability study was conducted;

(vii) The final disposition of residues and unused sample from each treatability study.

(10) The facility determines whether any unused sample or residues generated by the treatability study are hazardous waste under ยง 261.3 and, if so, are subject to parts 261 through 268, and part 270 of this chapter, unless the residues and unused samples are returned to the sample originator under the ยง 261.4(e) exemption.

(11) The facility notifies the Regional Administrator, or State Director (if located in an authorized State), by letter when the facility is no longer planning to conduct any treatability studies at the site.
