
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart D - Lists of Hazardous Wastes
###### ยง 261.32 Hazardous wastes from specific sources.
####### Determination for generated quantities greater than 1,000 MT/yr for wastes that contain K181 constituents.

(3)If the total annual quantity of dyes and/or pigment nonwastewaters generated is greater than 1,000 metric tons, the generator must perform all of the steps described in paragraphs ((d)(3)(i)-(d)(3)(xi) of this section) in order to make a determination that its waste is not K181.

(i) Determine which K181 constituents (see paragraph (c) of this section) are reasonably expected to be present in the wastes based on knowledge of the wastes (e.g., based on prior sampling and analysis data and/or information about raw materials used, production processes used, and reaction and degradation products formed).

(ii) If 1,2-phenylenediamine is present in the wastes, the generator can use either knowledge or sampling and analysis procedures to determine the level of this constituent in the wastes. For determinations based on use of knowledge, the generator must comply with the procedures for using knowledge described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and keep the records described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section. For determinations based on sampling and analysis, the generator must comply with the sampling and analysis and recordkeeping requirements described below in this section.

(iii) Develop a waste sampling and analysis plan (or modify an existing plan) to collect and analyze representative waste samples for the K181 constituents reasonably expected to be present in the wastes. At a minimum, the plan must include:

(A) A discussion of the number of samples needed to characterize the wastes fully;

(B) The planned sample collection method to obtain representative waste samples;

(C) A discussion of how the sampling plan accounts for potential temporal and spatial variability of the wastes.

(D) A detailed description of the test methods to be used, including sample preparation, clean up (if necessary), and determinative methods.

(iv) Collect and analyze samples in accordance with the waste sampling and analysis plan.

(A) The sampling and analysis must be unbiased, precise, and representative of the wastes.

(B) The analytical measurements must be sufficiently sensitive, accurate and precise to support any claim that the constituent mass loadings are below the listing levels of paragraph (c) of this section.

(v) Record the analytical results.

(vi) Record the waste quantity represented by the sampling and analysis results.

(vii) Calculate constituent-specific mass loadings (product of concentrations and waste quantity).

(viii) Keep a running total of the K181 constituent mass loadings over the course of the calendar year.

(ix) Determine whether the mass of any of the K181 constituents listed in paragraph (c) of this section generated between January 1 and December 31 of any year is below the K181 listing levels.

(x) Keep the following records on site for the three most recent calendar years in which the hazardous waste determinations are made:

(A) The sampling and analysis plan.

(B) The sampling and analysis results (including QA/QC data)

(C) The quantity of dyes and/or pigment nonwastewaters generated.

(D) The calculations performed to determine annual mass loadings.

(xi) Nonhazardous waste determinations must be conducted annually to verify that the wastes remain nonhazardous.

(A) The annual testing requirements are suspended after three consecutive successful annual demonstrations that the wastes are nonhazardous. The generator can then use knowledge of the wastes to support subsequent annual determinations.

(B) The annual testing requirements are reinstated if the manufacturing or waste treatment processes generating the wastes are significantly altered, resulting in an increase of the potential for the wastes to exceed the listing levels.

(C) If the annual testing requirements are suspended, the generator must keep records of the process knowledge information used to support a nonhazardous determination. If testing is reinstated, a description of the process change must be retained.
