
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart D - Lists of Hazardous Wastes
###### ยง 261.32 Hazardous wastes from specific sources.
####### Determination for generated quantities of 1,000 MT/yr or less for wastes that contain K181 constituents.

(2)If the total annual quantity of dyes and/or pigment nonwastewaters generated is 1,000 metric tons or less, the generator can use knowledge of the wastes (e.g., knowledge of constituents in wastes based on prior analytical data and/or information about raw materials used, production processes used, and reaction and degradation products formed) to conclude that annual mass loadings for the K181 constituents are below the listing levels of paragraph (c) of this section. To make this determination, the generator must:

(i) Each year document the basis for determining that the annual quantity of nonwastewaters expected to be generated will be less than 1,000 metric tons.

(ii) Track the actual quantity of nonwastewaters generated from January 1 through December 31 of each year. If, at any time within the year, the actual waste quantity exceeds 1,000 metric tons, the generator must comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section for the remainder of the year.

(iii) Keep a running total of the K181 constituent mass loadings over the course of the calendar year.

(iv) Keep the following records on site for the three most recent calendar years in which the hazardous waste determinations are made:

(A) The quantity of dyes and/or pigment nonwastewaters generated.

(B) The relevant process information used.

(C) The calculations performed to determine annual total mass loadings for each K181 constituent in the nonwastewaters during the year.
