
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### i.e.

7.2 Systems Drift Checks. Select the calibration gas that most closely approximates the concentration of the captured emissions for conducting the drift checks. Introduce the zero and calibration gases at the calibration valve assembly and verify that the appropriate gas flow rate and pressure are present at the FIA. Record the measurement system responses to the zero and calibration gases. The performance of the system is acceptable if the difference between the drift check measurement and the value obtained in section 7.1 is less than 3 percent of the span value. Alternatively, recalibrate the FIA as in section 7.1 and report the results using both sets of calibration data (, data determined prior to the test period and data determined following the test period). The data that results in the lowest CE value shall be reported as the results for the test run. Conduct a system drift check at the end of each run.

7.3 System Check. Inject the high-range calibration gas at the inlet of the sampling probe and record the response. The performance of the system is acceptable if the measurement system response is within 5 percent of the value obtained in section 7.1 for the high-range calibration gas. Conduct a system check before each test run.

8.1 Preliminary Determinations. The following points are considered exhaust points and should be measured for volumetric flow rates and VOC concentrations:

8.1.1 Forced Draft Openings. Any opening in the facility with an exhaust fan. Determine the volumetric flow rate according to Method 2.

8.1.2 Roof Openings. Any openings in the roof of a facility which does not contain fans are considered to be exhaust points. Determine volumetric flow rate from these openings. Use the appropriate velocity measurement devices (e.g., propeller anemometers).

8.2 Determination of Flow Rates.

8.2.1 Measure the volumetric flow rate at all locations identified as exhaust points in section 8.1. Divide each exhaust opening into nine equal areas for rectangular openings and into eight equal areas for circular openings.

8.2.2 Measure the velocity at each site at least once every hour during each sampling run using Method 2 or 2A, if applicable, or using the low velocity instruments in section 4.2.2.

8.3 Determination of VOC Content of Uncaptured Emissions.

8.3.1 Analysis Duration. Measure the VOC responses at each uncaptured emissions point during the entire test run or, if applicable, while the process is operating. If there are multiple emissions locations, design a sampling system to allow a single FIA to be used to determine the VOC responses at all sampling locations.

8.3.2 Gas VOC Concentration.

8.3.2.1 Assemble the sample train as shown in Figure 204E-1. Calibrate the FIA and conduct a system check according to the procedures in sections 7.1 and 7.3, respectively.

8.3.2.2 Install the sample probe so that the probe is centrally located in the stack, pipe, or duct, and is sealed tightly at the stack port connection.

8.3.2.3 Inject zero gas at the calibration valve assembly. Allow the measurement system response to reach zero. Measure the system response time as the time required for the system to reach the effluent concentration after the calibration valve has been returned to the effluent sampling position.
