
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart D - Lists of Hazardous Wastes
###### ยง 261.35 Deletion of certain hazardous waste codes following equipment cleaning and replacement.

(a) Wastes from wood preserving processes at plants that do not resume or initiate use of chlorophenolic preservatives will not meet the listing definition of F032 once the generator has met all of the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. These wastes may, however, continue to meet another hazardous waste listing description or may exhibit one or more of the hazardous waste characteristics.

(b) Generators must either clean or replace all process equipment that may have come into contact with chlorophenolic formulations or constituents thereof, including, but not limited to, treatment cylinders, sumps, tanks, piping systems, drip pads, fork lifts, and trams, in a manner that minimizes or eliminates the escape of hazardous waste or constituents, leachate, contaminated drippage, or hazardous waste decomposition products to the ground water, surface water, or atmosphere.

(1) Generators shall do one of the following:

(i) Prepare and follow an equipment cleaning plan and clean equipment in accordance with this section;

(ii) Prepare and follow an equipment replacement plan and replace equipment in accordance with this section; or

(iii) Document cleaning and replacement in accordance with this section, carried out after termination of use of chlorophenolic preservations.

(2) Cleaning Requirements.

(i) Prepare and sign a written equipment cleaning plan that describes:

(A) The equipment to be cleaned;

(B) How the equipment will be cleaned;

(C) The solvent to be used in cleaning;

(D) How solvent rinses will be tested; and

(E) How cleaning residues will be disposed.

(ii) Equipment must be cleaned as follows:

(A) Remove all visible residues from process equipment;

(B) Rinse process equipment with an appropriate solvent until dioxins and dibenzofurans are not detected in the final solvent rinse.

(iii) Analytical requirements.

(A) Rinses must be tested by using an appropriate method.

(B) "Not detected" means at or below the following lower method calibration limits (MCLs): The 2,3,7,8-TCDD-based MCL-0.01 parts per trillion (ppt), sample weight of 1000 g, IS spiking level of 1 ppt, final extraction volume of 10-50 &#x3BC;L. For other congeners-multiply the values by 1 for TCDF/PeCDD/PeCDF, by 2.5 for HxCDD/HxCDF/HpCDD/HpCDF, and by 5 for OCDD/OCDF.

(iv) The generator must manage all residues from the cleaning process as F032 waste.

(3) Replacement requirements.

(i) Prepare and sign a written equipment replacement plan that describes:

(A) The equipment to be replaced;

(B) How the equipment will be replaced; and

(C) How the equipment will be disposed.

(ii) The generator must manage the discarded equipment as F032 waste.

(4) Documentation requirements.

(i) Document that previous equipment cleaning and/or replacement was performed in accordance with this section and occurred after cessation of use of chlorophenolic preservatives.

(c) The generator must maintain the following records documenting the cleaning and replacement as part of the facility's operating record:

(1) The name and address of the facility;

(2) Formulations previously used and the date on which their use ceased in each process at the plant;

(3) Formulations currently used in each process at the plant;

(4) The equipment cleaning or replacement plan;

(5) The name and address of any persons who conducted the cleaning and replacement;

(6) The dates on which cleaning and replacement were accomplished;

(7) The dates of sampling and testing;

(8) A description of the sample handling and preparation techniques, including techniques used for extraction, containerization, preservation, and chain-of-custody of the samples;

(9) A description of the tests performed, the date the tests were performed, and the results of the tests;

(10) The name and model numbers of the instrument(s) used in performing the tests;

(11) QA/QC documentation; and

(12) The following statement signed by the generator or his authorized representative:
