
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### i.e.

8.3.2.4 Conduct a system check before, and a system drift check after, each sampling run according to the procedures in sections 7.2 and 7.3. If the drift check following a run indicates unacceptable performance (see section 7.3), the run is not valid. Alternatively, recalibrate the FIA as in section 7.1 and report the results using both sets of calibration data (, data determined prior to the test period and data determined following the test period). The data that results in the lowest CE value shall be reported as the results for the test run. The tester may elect to perform drift checks during the run, not to exceed one drift check per hour.

8.3.2.5 Verify that the sample lines, filter, and pump temperatures are 120 +/-5 &#xB0;C.

8.3.2.6 Begin sampling at the start of the test period and continue to sample during the entire run. Record the starting and ending times, and any required process information, as appropriate. If multiple emission locations are sampled using a single FIA, sample at each location for the same amount of time (e.g., 2 minutes) and continue to switch from one location to another for the entire test run. Be sure that total sampling time at each location is the same at the end of the test run. Collect at least four separate measurements from each sample point during each hour of testing. Disregard the response measurements at each sampling location until 2 times the response time of the measurement system has elapsed. Continue sampling for at least 1 minute, and record the concentration measurements.

8.4 Alternative Procedure. The direct interface sampling and analysis procedure described in section 7.2 of Method 18 may be used to determine the gas VOC concentration. The system must be designed to collect and analyze at least one sample every 10 minutes. If the alternative procedure is used to determine the VOC concentration of the uncaptured emissions in a gas/gas protocol, it must also be used to determine the VOC concentration of the captured emissions. If a tester wishes to conduct a liquid/gas protocol using a gas chromatograph, the tester must use Method 204F for the liquid steam. A gas chromatograph is not an acceptable alternative to the FIA in Method 204A.

9.1 Nomenclature.

9.2 Calculations

9.2.1 Total VOC Uncaptured Emissions from the Building.

9.2.2 VOC Concentration of the Uncaptured Emissions at Point j.

The measurement uncertainties are estimated for each uncaptured emissions point as follows: Q=+/-10.0 percent and C=+/-5.0 percent. Based on these numbers, the probable uncertainty for Fis estimated at about +/-11.2 percent.

1.1 Applicability. This procedure is applicable for determining the input of volatile organic compounds (VOC). It is intended to be used as a segment in the development of liquid/gas protocols for determining VOC capture efficiency (CE) for surface coating and printing operations.

1.2 Principle. The amount of VOC introduced to the process (L) is the sum of the products of the weight (W) of each VOC containing liquid (ink, paint, solvent, etc.) used, and its VOC content (V), corrected for a response factor (RF).

1.3 Sampling Requirements. A CE test shall consist of at least three sampling runs. Each run shall cover at least one complete production cycle, but shall be at least 3 hours long. The sampling time for each run need not exceed 8 hours, even if the production cycle has not been completed. Alternative sampling times may be used with the approval of the Administrator.

A sample of each coating used is distilled to separate the VOC fraction. The distillate is used to prepare a known standard for analysis by a flame ionization analyzer (FIA), calibrated against propane, to determine its RF.

Because this procedure is often applied in highly explosive areas, caution and care should be exercised in choosing, installing, and using the appropriate equipment.

Mention of trade names or company products does not constitute endorsement. All gas concentrations (percent, ppm) are by volume, unless otherwise noted.

4.1 Liquid Weight.

4.1.1 Balances/Digital Scales. To weigh drums of VOC containing liquids to within 0.2 lb or 1.0 percent of the total weight of VOC liquid used.

4.1.2 Volume Measurement Apparatus (Alternative). Volume meters, flow meters, density measurement equipment, etc., as needed to achieve the same accuracy as direct weight measurements.

4.2 Response Factor Determination (FIA Technique). The VOC distillation system and Tedlar gas bag generation system apparatuses are shown in Figures 204F-1 and 204F-2, respectively. The following equipment is required:

4.2.1 Sample Collection Can. An appropriately-sized metal can to be used to collect VOC containing materials. The can must be constructed in such a way that it can be grounded to the coating container.

4.2.2 Needle Valves. To control gas flow.

4.2.3 Regulators. For calibration, dilution, and sweep gas cylinders.

4.2.4 Tubing and Fittings. Teflon and stainless steel tubing and fittings with diameters, lengths, and sizes determined by the connection requirements of the equipment.

4.2.5 Thermometer. Capable of measuring the temperature of the hot water and oil baths to within 1 &#xB0;C.

4.2.6 Analytical Balance. To measure +/-0.01 mg.

4.2.7 Microliter Syringe. 10-µl size.

4.2.8 Vacuum Gauge or Manometer. 0- to 760-mm (0- to 30-in.) Hg U-Tube manometer or vacuum gauge.

4.2.9 Hot Oil Bath, With Stirring Hot Plate. Capable of heating and maintaining a distillation vessel at 110 +/-3 &#xB0;C.

4.2.10 Ice Water Bath. To cool the distillation flask.

4.2.11 Vacuum/Water Aspirator. A device capable of drawing a vacuum to within 20 mm Hg from absolute.

4.2.12 Rotary Evaporator System. Complete with folded inner coil, vertical style condenser, rotary speed control, and Teflon sweep gas delivery tube with valved inlet. Buchi Rotavapor or equivalent.

4.2.13 Ethylene Glycol Cooling/Circulating Bath. Capable of maintaining the condenser coil fluid at -10 &#xB0;C.

4.2.14 Dry Gas Meter (DGM). Capable of measuring the dilution gas volume within 2 percent, calibrated with a spirometer or bubble meter, and equipped with a temperature gauge capable of measuring temperature within 3 &#xB0;C.

4.2.15 Activated Charcoal/Mole Sieve Trap. To remove any trace level of organics picked up from the DGM.

4.2.16 Gas Coil Heater. Sufficient length of 0.125-inch stainless steel tubing to allow heating of the dilution gas to near the water bath temperature before entering the volatilization vessel.

4.2.17 Water Bath, With Stirring Hot Plate. Capable of heating and maintaining a volatilization vessel and coil heater at a temperature of 100 +/-5 &#xB0;C.

4.2.18 Volatilization Vessel. 50-ml midget impinger fitted with a septum top and loosely filled with glass wool to increase the volatilization surface.

4.2.19 Tedlar Gas Bag. Capable of holding 30 liters of gas, flushed clean with zero air, leak tested, and evacuated.

4.2.20 Organic Concentration Analyzer. An FIA with a span value of 1.5 times the expected concentration as propane; however, other span values may be used if it can be demonstrated that they would provide equally accurate measurements. The FIA instrument should be the same instrument used in the gaseous analyses adjusted with the same fuel, combustion air, and sample back-pressure (flow rate) settings. The system shall be capable of meeting or exceeding the following specifications:

4.2.20.1 Zero Drift. Less than +/-3.0 percent of the span value.

4.2.20.2 Calibration Drift. Less than +/-3.0 percent of the span value.

4.2.20.3 Calibration Error. Less than +/-3.0 percent of the calibration gas value.

4.2.21 Integrator/Data Acquisition System. An analog or digital device or computerized data acquisition system used to integrate the FIA response or compute the average response and record measurement data. The minimum data sampling frequency for computing average or integrated value is one measurement value every 5 seconds. The device shall be capable of recording average values at least once per minute.

4.2.22 Chart Recorder (Optional). A chart recorder or similar device is recommended to provide a continuous analog display of the measurement results during the liquid sample analysis.

5.1 Zero Air. High purity air with less than 1 ppm of organic material (as propane) or less than 0.1 percent of the span value, whichever is greater. Used to supply dilution air for making the Tedlar bag gas samples.

5.2 THC Free N. High purity Nwith less than 1 ppm THC. Used as sweep gas in the rotary evaporator system.

5.3 Calibration and Other Gases. Gases used for calibration, fuel, and combustion air (if required) are contained in compressed gas cylinders. All calibration gases shall be traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology standards and shall be certified by the manufacturer to +/-1 percent of the tag value. Additionally, the manufacturer of the cylinder should provide a recommended shelf life for each calibration gas cylinder over which the concentration does not change more than +/-2 percent from the certified value. For calibration gas values not generally available, dilution systems calibrated using Method 205 may be used. Alternative methods for preparing calibration gas mixtures may be used with the approval of the Administrator.

5.3.1 Fuel. The FIA manufacturer's recommended fuel should be used. A 40 percent H/60 percent He, or 40 percent H/60 percent Nmixture is recommended to avoid fuels with oxygen to avoid an oxygen synergism effect that reportedly occurs when oxygen concentration varies significantly from a mean value. Other mixtures may be used provided the tester can demonstrate to the Administrator that there is no oxygen synergism effect.

5.3.2 Combustion Air. High purity air with less than 1 ppm of organic material (as propane) or less than 0.1 percent of the span value, whichever is greater.

5.3.3 FIA Linearity Calibration Gases. Low-, mid-, and high-range gas mixture standards with nominal propane concentration of 20-30, 45-55, and 70-80 percent of the span value in air, respectively. Other calibration values and other span values may be used if it can be shown that equally accurate measurements would be achieved.

5.3.4 System Calibration Gas. Gas mixture standard containing propane in air, approximating the VOC concentration expected for the Tedlar gas bag samples.

6.1 Required instrument quality control parameters are found in the following sections:

6.1.1 The FIA system must be calibrated as specified in section 7.1.

6.1.2 The system drift check must be performed as specified in section 7.2.

6.2 Precision Control. A minimum of one sample in each batch must be distilled and analyzed in duplicate as a precision control. If the results of the two analyses differ by more than +/-10 percent of the mean, then the system must be reevaluated and the entire batch must be redistilled and analyzed.

7.1 FIA Calibration and Linearity Check. Make necessary adjustments to the air and fuel supplies for the FIA and ignite the burner. Allow the FIA to warm up for the period recommended by the manufacturer. Inject a calibration gas into the measurement system and adjust the back-pressure regulator to the value required to achieve the flow rates specified by the manufacturer. Inject the zero-and the high-range calibration gases and adjust the analyzer calibration to provide the proper responses. Inject the low-and mid-range gases and record the responses of the measurement system. The calibration and linearity of the system are acceptable if the responses for all four gases are within 5 percent of the respective gas values. If the performance of the system is not acceptable, repair or adjust the system and repeat the linearity check. Conduct a calibration and linearity check after assembling the analysis system and after a major change is made to the system. A calibration curve consisting of zero gas and two calibration levels must be performed at the beginning and end of each batch of samples.
