
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### i.e.

7.2 Systems Drift Checks. After each sample, repeat the system calibration checks in section 7.1 before any adjustments to the FIA or measurement system are made. If the zero or calibration drift exceeds +/-3 percent of the span value, discard the result and repeat the analysis. Alternatively, recalibrate the FIA as in section 7.1 and report the results using both sets of calibration data (, data determined prior to the test period and data determined following the test period). The data that results in the lowest CE value shall be reported as the results for the test run.

8.1 Determination of Liquid Input Weight

8.1.1 Weight Difference. Determine the amount of material introduced to the process as the weight difference of the feed material before and after each sampling run. In determining the total VOC containing liquid usage, account for: (a) The initial (beginning) VOC containing liquid mixture; (b) any solvent added during the test run; (c) any coating added during the test run; and (d) any residual VOC containing liquid mixture remaining at the end of the sample run.

8.1.1.1 Identify all points where VOC containing liquids are introduced to the process. To obtain an accurate measurement of VOC containing liquids, start with an empty fountain (if applicable). After completing the run, drain the liquid in the fountain back into the liquid drum (if possible), and weigh the drum again. Weigh the VOC containing liquids to +/-0.5 percent of the total weight (full) or +/-1.0 percent of the total weight of VOC containing liquid used during the sample run, whichever is less. If the residual liquid cannot be returned to the drum, drain the fountain into a preweighed empty drum to determine the final weight of the liquid.

8.1.1.2 If it is not possible to measure a single representative mixture, then weigh the various components separately (e.g., if solvent is added during the sampling run, weigh the solvent before it is added to the mixture). If a fresh drum of VOC containing liquid is needed during the run, then weigh both the empty drum and fresh drum.

8.1.2 Volume Measurement (Alternative). If direct weight measurements are not feasible, the tester may use volume meters and flow rate meters (and density measurements) to determine the weight of liquids used if it can be demonstrated that the technique produces results equivalent to the direct weight measurements. If a single representative mixture cannot be measured, measure the components separately.

8.2 Determination of VOC Content in Input Liquids

8.2.1 Collection of Liquid Samples.

8.2.1.1 Collect a 1-pint or larger sample of the VOC containing liquid mixture at each application location at the beginning and end of each test run. A separate sample should be taken of each VOC containing liquid added to the application mixture during the test run. If a fresh drum is needed during the sampling run, then obtain a sample from the fresh drum.

8.2.1.2 When collecting the sample, ground the sample container to the coating drum. Fill the sample container as close to the rim as possible to minimize the amount of headspace.

8.2.1.3 After the sample is collected, seal the container so the sample cannot leak out or evaporate.

8.2.1.4 Label the container to identify clearly the contents.

8.2.2 Distillation of VOC.

8.2.2.1 Assemble the rotary evaporator as shown in Figure 204F-1.

8.2.2.2 Leak check the rotary evaporation system by aspirating a vacuum of approximately 20 mm Hg from absolute. Close up the system and monitor the vacuum for approximately 1 minute. If the vacuum falls more than 25 mm Hg in 1 minute, repair leaks and repeat. Turn off the aspirator and vent vacuum.

8.2.2.3 Deposit approximately 20 ml of sample (inks, paints, etc.) into the rotary evaporation distillation flask.

8.2.2.4 Install the distillation flask on the rotary evaporator.

8.2.2.5 Immerse the distillate collection flask into the ice water bath.

8.2.2.6 Start rotating the distillation flask at a speed of approximately 30 rpm.

8.2.2.7 Begin heating the vessel at a rate of 2 to 3 &#xB0;C per minute.

8.2.2.8 After the hot oil bath has reached a temperature of 50 &#xB0;C or pressure is evident on the mercury manometer, turn on the aspirator and gradually apply a vacuum to the evaporator to within 20 mm Hg of absolute. Care should be taken to prevent material burping from the distillation flask.

8.2.2.9 Continue heating until a temperature of 110 &#xB0;C is achieved and maintain this temperature for at least 2 minutes, or until the sample has dried in the distillation flask.

8.2.2.10 Slowly introduce the Nsweep gas through the purge tube and into the distillation flask, taking care to maintain a vacuum of approximately 400-mm Hg from absolute.

8.2.2.11 Continue sweeping the remaining solvent VOC from the distillation flask and condenser assembly for 2 minutes, or until all traces of condensed solvent are gone from the vessel. Some distillate may remain in the still head. This will not affect solvent recovery ratios.

8.2.2.12 Release the vacuum, disassemble the apparatus and transfer the distillate to a labeled, sealed vial.

8.2.3 Preparation of VOC standard bag sample.

8.2.3.1 Assemble the bag sample generation system as shown in Figure 204F-2 and bring the water bath up to near boiling temperature.

8.2.3.2 Inflate the Tedlar bag and perform a leak check on the bag.

8.2.3.3 Evacuate the bag and close the bag inlet valve.

8.2.3.4 Record the current barometric pressure.

8.2.3.5 Record the starting reading on the dry gas meter, open the bag inlet valve, and start the dilution zero air flowing into the Tedlar bag at approximately 2 liters per minute.

8.2.3.6 The bag sample VOC concentration should be similar to the gaseous VOC concentration measured in the gas streams. The amount of liquid VOC required can be approximated using equations in section 9.2. Using Equation 204F-4, calculate Cby assuming RF is 1.0 and selecting the desired gas concentration in terms of propane, C. Assuming Bis 20 liters, M, the approximate amount of liquid to be used to prepare the bag gas sample, can be calculated using Equation 204F-2.

8.2.3.7 Quickly withdraw an aliquot of the approximate amount calculated in section 8.2.3.6 from the distillate vial with the microliter syringe and record its weight from the analytical balance to the nearest 0.01 mg.

8.2.3.8 Inject the contents of the syringe through the septum of the volatilization vessel into the glass wool inside the vessel.

8.2.3.9 Reweigh and record the tare weight of the now empty syringe.

8.2.3.10 Record the pressure and temperature of the dilution gas as it is passed through the dry gas meter.

8.2.3.11 After approximately 20 liters of dilution gas have passed into the Tedlar bag, close the valve to the dilution air source and record the exact final reading on the dry gas meter.

8.2.3.12 The gas bag is then analyzed by FIA within 1 hour of bag preparation in accordance with the procedure in section 8.2.4.

8.2.4 Determination of VOC response factor.

8.2.4.1 Start up the FIA instrument using the same settings as used for the gaseous VOC measurements.

8.2.4.2 Perform the FIA analyzer calibration and linearity checks according to the procedure in section 7.1. Record the responses to each of the calibration gases and the back-pressure setting of the FIA.

8.2.4.3 Connect the Tedlar bag sample to the FIA sample inlet and record the bag concentration in terms of propane. Continue the analyses until a steady reading is obtained for at least 30 seconds. Record the final reading and calculate the RF.

8.2.5 Determination of coating VOC content as VOC (V).

8.2.5.1 Determine the VOC content of the coatings used in the process using EPA Method 24 or 24A as applicable.

9.1. Nomenclature.

9.2 Calculations.

9.2.1 Bag sample volume.

9.2.2 Bag sample VOC concentration.

9.2.3 Bag sample VOC concentration as propane.

9.2.4 Response Factor.

9.2.5 Total VOC Content of the Input VOC Containing Liquid.

1.1 Applicability. A gas dilution system can provide known values of calibration gases through controlled dilution of high-level calibration gases with an appropriate dilution gas. The instrumental test methods in 40 CFR part 60-e.g., Methods 3A, 6C, 7E, 10, 15, 16, 20, 25A and 25B-require on-site, multi-point calibration using gases of known concentrations. A gas dilution system that produces known low-level calibration gases from high-level calibration gases, with a degree of confidence similar to that for Protocolgases, may be used for compliance tests in lieu of multiple calibration gases when the gas dilution system is demonstrated to meet the requirements of this method. The Administrator may also use a gas dilution system in order to produce a wide range of Cylinder Gas Audit concentrations when conducting performance specifications according to appendix F, 40 CFR part 60. As long as the acceptance criteria of this method are met, this method is applicable to gas dilution systems using any type of dilution technology, not solely the ones mentioned in this method.

1.2 Principle. The gas dilution system shall be evaluated on one analyzer once during each field test. A precalibrated analyzer is chosen, at the discretion of the source owner or operator, to demonstrate that the gas dilution system produces predictable gas concentrations spanning a range of concentrations. After meeting the requirements of this method, the remaining analyzers may be calibrated with the dilution system in accordance to the requirements of the applicable method for the duration of the field test. In Methods 15 and 16, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, reactive compounds may be lost in the gas dilution system. Also, in Methods 25A and 25B, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, calibration with target compounds other than propane is allowed. In these cases, a laboratory evaluation is required once per year in order to assure the Administrator that the system will dilute these reactive gases without significant loss.

2.1 Gas Dilution System. The gas dilution system shall produce calibration gases whose measured values are within +/-2 percent of the predicted values. The predicted values are calculated based on the certified concentration of the supply gas (Protocol gases, when available, are recommended for their accuracy) and the gas flow rates (or dilution ratios) through the gas dilution system.

2.1.1 The gas dilution system shall be recalibrated once per calendar year using NIST-traceable flow standards with an uncertainty &#x2264;0.25 percent. You shall report the results of the calibration by the person or manufacturer who carried out the calibration whenever the dilution system is used, listing the date of the most recent calibration, the due date for the next calibration, calibration point, reference flow device (ID, S/N), and acceptance criteria. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for the operation and use of the gas dilution system. A copy of the manufacturer's instructions for the operation of the instrument, as well as the most recent calibration documentation, shall be made available for inspection at the test site.

2.1.2 Some manufacturers of mass flow controllers recommend that flow rates below 10 percent of flow controller capacity be avoided; check for this recommendation and follow the manufacturer's instructions. One study has indicated that silicone oil from a positive displacement pump produces an interference in SOanalyzers utilizing ultraviolet fluorescence; follow laboratory procedures similar to those outlined in Section 3.1 in order to demonstrate the significance of any resulting effect on instrument performance.

2.2 High-Level Supply Gas. An EPA Protocol calibration gas is recommended, due to its accuracy, as the high-level supply gas.

2.3 Mid-Level Supply Gas. An EPA Protocol gas shall be used as an independent check of the dilution system. The concentration of the mid-level supply gas shall be within 10 percent of one of the dilution levels tested in Section 3.2.

3.1 Laboratory Evaluation (Optional). If the gas dilution system is to be used to formulate calibration gases with reactive compounds (Test Methods 15, 16, and 25A/25B (only if using a calibration gas other than propane during the field test) in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A), a laboratory certification must be conducted once per calendar year for each reactive compound to be diluted. In the laboratory, carry out the procedures in Section 3.2 on the analyzer required in each respective test method to be laboratory certified (15, 16, or 25A and 25B for compounds other than propane). For each compound in which the gas dilution system meets the requirements in Section 3.2, the source must provide the laboratory certification data for the field test and in the test report.

3.2 Field Evaluation (Required). The gas dilution system shall be evaluated at the test site with an analyzer or monitor chosen by the source owner or operator. It is recommended that the source owner or operator choose a precalibrated instrument with a high level of precision and accuracy for the purposes of this test. This method is not meant to replace the calibration requirements of test methods. In addition to the requirements in this method, all the calibration requirements of the applicable test method must also be met.

3.2.1 Prepare the gas dilution system according to the manufacturer's instructions. Using the high-level supply gas, prepare, at a minimum, two dilutions within the range of each dilution device utilized in the dilution system (unless, as in critical orifice systems, each dilution device is used to make only one dilution; in that case, prepare one dilution for each dilution device). Dilution device in this method refers to each mass flow controller, critical orifice, capillary tube, positive displacement pump, or any other device which is used to achieve gas dilution.

3.2.2 Calculate the predicted concentration for each of the dilutions based on the flow rates through the gas dilution system (or the dilution ratios) and the certified concentration of the high-level supply gas.

3.2.3 Introduce each of the dilutions from Section 3.2.1 into the analyzer or monitor one at a time and determine the instrument response for each of the dilutions.

3.2.4 Repeat the procedure in Section 3.2.3 two times, i.e., until three injections are made at each dilution level. Calculate the average instrument response for each triplicate injection at each dilution level. No single injection shall differ by more than +/-2 percent from the average instrument response for that dilution.

3.2.5 For each level of dilution, calculate the difference between the average concentration output recorded by the analyzer and the predicted concentration calculated in Section 3.2.2. The average concentration output from the analyzer shall be within +/-2 percent of the predicted value.

3.2.6 Introduce the mid-level supply gas directly into the analyzer, bypassing the gas dilution system. Repeat the procedure twice more, for a total of three mid-level supply gas injections. Calculate the average analyzer output concentration for the mid-level supply gas. The difference between the certified concentration of the mid-level supply gas and the average instrument response shall be within +/-2 percent.

3.3 If the gas dilution system meets the criteria listed in Section 3.2, the gas dilution system may be used throughout that field test. If the gas dilution system fails any of the criteria listed in Section 3.2, and the tester corrects the problem with the gas dilution system, the procedure in Section 3.2 must be repeated in its entirety and all the criteria in Section 3.2 must be met in order for the gas dilution system to be utilized in the test.

1. "EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards," EPA-600/R93/224, Revised September 1993.
