
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### Range.

1.3The lower and upper ranges of this procedure are determined by the sensitivity of the flame ionization detector (FID) instruments used. Typically, gas detection limits for the VOCs will be on the order of 1-5 ppmv, with the upper limit on the order of 100,000 ppmv.

This procedure calls for using an FIA in conjunction with various configurations of impingers, and other absorbents, or adsorbents to determine the best EPA Method 18 sampling train configuration for the assessment and capture of VOCs. VOC compounds present in the exhaust gas from processes located at CWM facilities fall into five general categories: Alcohols, aldehydes, acetate esters, ketones, and carboxylic acids, and typically contain fewer than six carbon atoms. This pre-survey protocol characterizes and identifies the VOC species present. Since it is qualitative in nature, quantitative performance criteria do not apply.

3.1 Calibration drift means the difference in the measurement system response to a mid-level calibration gas before and after a stated period of operation during which no unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment took place.

3.2 Calibration error means the difference between the gas concentration indicated by the measurement system and the known concentration of the calibration gas.

3.3 Calibration gas means a known concentration of a gas in an appropriate diluent gas.

3.4 Measurement system means the equipment required for the determination of the gas concentration. The system consists of the following major subsystems:

3.4.1 Sample interface means that portion of a system used for one or more of the following: Sample acquisition, sample transportation, sample conditioning, or protection of the analyzer(s) from the effects of the stack effluent.

3.4.2 Organic analyzer means that portion of the measurement system that senses the gas to be measured and generates an output proportional to its concentration.

3.5 Response time means the time interval from a step change in pollutant concentration at the inlet to the emission measurement system to the time at which 95 percent of the corresponding final value is reached as displayed on the recorder.

3.6 Span Value means the upper limit of a gas concentration measurement range that is specified for affected source categories in the applicable part of the regulations. The span value is established in the applicable regulation and is usually 1.5 to 2.5 times the applicable emission limit. If no span value is provided, use a span value equivalent to 1.5 to 2.5 times the expected concentration. For convenience, the span value should correspond to 100 percent of the recorder scale.

3.7 Zero drift means the difference in the measurement system response to a zero level calibration gas before or after a stated period of operation during which no unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment took place.
