
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart BB - Air Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks
###### ยง 261.1059 Standards: Delay of repair.

(a) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected will be allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown. In such a case, repair of this equipment shall occur before the end of the next hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown.

(b) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected will be allowed for equipment that is isolated from the hazardous secondary material management unit and that does not continue to contain or contact hazardous secondary material with organic concentrations at least 10 percent by weight.

(c) Delay of repair for valves will be allowed if:

(1) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material determines that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair are greater than the emissions likely to result from delay of repair.

(2) When repair procedures are effected, the purged material is collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device complying with ยง 261.1060.

(d) Delay of repair for pumps will be allowed if:

(1) Repair requires the use of a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system.

(2) Repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.

(e) Delay of repair beyond a hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown will be allowed for a valve if valve assembly replacement is necessary during the hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown, valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted. Delay of repair beyond the next hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown will not be allowed unless the next hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown occurs sooner than 6 months after the first hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown.
