
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### Sampling.

8.2The pre-survey system should be set up and calibrated with the targeted sampling flow rate that will be used during Method 18 VOC sampling. The targeted flow rate for capture of most expected VOC species is 400 cc/min. Since most FIA analyzers do not specifically allow for adjusting the total sample flow rate (only the back pressure), it may be necessary to insert a flow control valve at the sample inlet to the FIA. The total sample flow can be measured at the FIA bypass, since only a small fraction of the sample flow is diverted to analysis portion of the instrument.

The sampling system configuration shown in Figure 1 is operated using the process flow diagram provided in Figure 2. As noted in the process flowchart, the initial sampling media consists of the three midget impingers. The attenuation of the VOC sample stream is evaluated to determine if 95 percent or greater attenuation (capture) of the VOCs present has been achieved. The flow diagram specifies successive adjustments to the sampling media that are utilized to increase VOC capture.

A one-hour test of the final sampling configuration is performed using fresh media to ensure that significant breakthrough does not occur. Additional sampling media (more water, silica or carbon tubes) may be added to ensure that breakthrough is not occurring for the full duration of a test run.

If 95 percent or greater attenuation has not been achieved after inserting all indicated media, the most likely scenario is that methane is present. This is easily checked by collecting a sample of this final bypass sample stream and analyzing for methane. There are other VOC compounds which could also penetrate the media. Their identification by gas chromatography followed by mass spectrometry would be required if the breakthrough cannot be accounted for by the presence of methane.
