
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart BB - Air Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks
###### § 261.1064 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### e.g.,

(vi) Method of compliance with the standard ("monthly leak detection and repair" or "equipped with dual mechanical seals").

(2) For facilities that comply with the provisions of § 261.1033(a)(2), an implementation schedule as specified in § 261.1033(a)(2).

(3) Where a remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material chooses to use test data to demonstrate the organic removal efficiency or total organic compound concentration achieved by the control device, a performance test plan as specified in § 261.1035(b)(3).

(4) Documentation of compliance with § 261.1060, including the detailed design documentation or performance test results specified in § 261.1035(b)(4).

(c) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 261.1052, 261.1053, 261.1057, and 261.1058, the following requirements apply:

(1) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, the date evidence of a potential leak was found in accordance with § 261.1058(a), and the date the leak was detected, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.

(2) The identification on equipment, except on a valve, may be removed after it has been repaired.

(3) The identification on a valve may be removed after it has been monitored for two successive months as specified in § 261.1057(c) and no leak has been detected during those two months.

(d) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 261.1052, 261.1053, 261.1057, and 261.1058, the following information shall be recorded in an inspection log and shall be kept at the facility:

(1) The instrument and operator identification numbers and the equipment identification number.

(2) The date evidence of a potential leak was found in accordance with § 261.1058(a).

(3) The date the leak was detected and the dates of each attempt to repair the leak.

(4) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.

(5) "Above 10,000" if the maximum instrument reading measured by the methods specified in § 261.1063(b) after each repair attempt is equal to or greater than 10,000 ppm.

(6) "Repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.

(7) Documentation supporting the delay of repair of a valve in compliance with § 261.1059(c).

(8) The signature of the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a hazardous secondary material management unit shutdown.

(9) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days.

(10) The date of successful repair of the leak.

(e) Design documentation and monitoring, operating, and inspection information for each closed-vent system and control device required to comply with the provisions of § 261.1060 shall be recorded and kept up-to-date at the facility as specified in § 261.1035(c). Design documentation is specified in § 261.1035(c)(1) and (2) and monitoring, operating, and inspection information in § 261.1035(c)(3) through (8).

(f) For a control device other than a thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, flare, boiler, process heater, condenser, or carbon adsorption system, the Regional Administrator will specify the appropriate recordkeeping requirements.

(g) The following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in §§ 261.1052 through 261.1060 shall be recorded in a log that is kept at the facility:

(1) A list of identification numbers for equipment (except welded fittings) subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(2)(i) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material elects to designate for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, under the provisions of §§ 261.1052(e), 261.1053(i), and 261.1057(f).

(ii) The designation of this equipment as subject to the requirements of §§ 261.1052(e), 261.1053(i), or 261.1057(f) shall be signed by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material.

(3) A list of equipment identification numbers for pressure relief devices required to comply with § 261.1054(a).

(4)(i) The dates of each compliance test required in §§ 261.1052(e), 261.1053(i), 261.1054, and 261.1057(f).

(ii) The background level measured during each compliance test.

(iii) The maximum instrument reading measured at the equipment during each compliance test.

(5) A list of identification numbers for equipment in vacuum service.

(6) Identification, either by list or location (area or group) of equipment that contains or contacts hazardous secondary material with an organic concentration of at least 10 percent by weight for less than 300 hours per calendar year.

(h) The following information pertaining to all valves subject to the requirements of § 261.1057(g) and (h) shall be recorded in a log that is kept at the facility:

(1) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as unsafe to monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is unsafe to monitor, and the plan for monitoring each valve.

(2) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as difficult to monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is difficult to monitor, and the planned schedule for monitoring each valve.

(i) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept at the facility for valves complying with § 261.1062:

(1) A schedule of monitoring.

(2) The percent of valves found leaking during each monitoring period.

(j) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept at in the facility:

(1) Criteria required in §§ 261.1052(d)(5)(ii) and 261.1053(e)(2) and an explanation of the design criteria.

(2) Any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.

(k) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept at the facility for use in determining exemptions as provided in the applicability section of this subpart and other specific subparts:

(1) An analysis determining the design capacity of the hazardous secondary material management unit.

(2) A statement listing the hazardous secondary material influent to and effluent from each hazardous secondary material management unit subject to the requirements in §§ 261.1052 through 261.1060 and an analysis determining whether these hazardous secondary materials are heavy liquids.
