
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix M to Part 51 - Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans
###### Analytical Procedure.

11.1Upon completion of the pre-survey sampling, the sample fractions are to be analyzed by an appropriate chromatographic technique. (Ref: Method 18) The resulting chromatograms must be reviewed to ensure that the ratio of known peak area to total peak area is 95% or greater. It should be noted that if formaldehyde is a suspected analyte, it must be quantitated separately using a different analytical technique.

Chromatogram peaks will be ranked from greatest area to least area using peak integrator output. The area of all peaks will then be totaled, and the proportion of each peak area to the total area will be calculated. Beginning with the highest ranked area, each peak will be identified and the area added to previous areas until the cumulative area comprises at least 95% of the total area. The VOC compounds generating those identified peaks will comprise the compound list to be used in Method 18 testing of the subject source.

16.1 CFR 40 Part 60, Appendix A, Method 18, Measurement of Gaseous Organic Compound Emissions by Gas Chromatography.

16.2 CFR 40 Part 60, Appendix A, Method 25A, Determination of Total Gaseous Organic Concentration Using a Flame Ionization Analyzer.

16.2 CFR 40 Part 60, Appendix A, Method 6, Determination of Sulfur Dioxide Emissions from Stationary Sources.

16.3 National Council for Air and Stream Improvement (NCASI), Method CI/WP-98.01 "Chilled Impinger Method for Use at Wood Products Mills to Measure Formaldehyde, Methanol, and Phenol.
