
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks and Containers
###### ยง 261.1083 Material determination procedures.
####### Sampling.

(ii)Samples of the hazardous secondary material stream shall be collected at the point of material origination in a manner such that volatilization of organics contained in the material and in the subsequent sample is minimized and an adequately representative sample is collected and maintained for analysis by the selected method.

(A) The averaging period to be used for determining the average VO concentration for the hazardous secondary material stream on a mass-weighted average basis shall be designated and recorded. The averaging period can represent any time interval that the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material determines is appropriate for the hazardous secondary material stream but shall not exceed 1 year.

(B) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected and analyzed for a hazardous secondary material determination. All of the samples for a given material determination shall be collected within a one-hour period. The average of the four or more sample results constitutes a material determination for the material stream. One or more material determinations may be required to represent the complete range of material compositions and quantities that occur during the entire averaging period due to normal variations in the operating conditions for the source or process generating the hazardous secondary material stream. Examples of such normal variations are seasonal variations in material quantity or fluctuations in ambient temperature.

(C) All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the hazardous secondary material stream are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process, and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained at the facility. An example of acceptable sample collection and handling procedures for a total volatile organic constituent concentration may be found in Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(D) Sufficient information, as specified in the "site sampling plan" required under paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, shall be prepared and recorded to document the material quantity represented by the samples and, as applicable, the operating conditions for the source or process generating the hazardous secondary material represented by the samples.
