
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks and Containers
###### ยง 261.1087 Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.

(a) This section applies to each closed-vent system and control device installed and operated by the remanufacturer or other person who stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to control air emissions in accordance with standards of this subpart.

(b) The closed-vent system shall meet the following requirements:

(1) The closed-vent system shall route the gases, vapors, and fumes emitted from the hazardous secondary material in the hazardous secondary material management unit to a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) The closed-vent system shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements specified in ยง 261.1033(k) of this part.

(3) In the case when the closed-vent system includes bypass devices that could be used to divert the gas or vapor stream to the atmosphere before entering the control device, each bypass device shall be equipped with either a flow indicator as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section or a seal or locking device as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. For the purpose of complying with this paragraph, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, spring loaded pressure relief valves, and other fittings used for safety purposes are not considered to be bypass devices.

(i) If a flow indicator is used to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the indicator shall be installed at the inlet to the bypass line used to divert gases and vapors from the closed-vent system to the atmosphere at a point upstream of the control device inlet. For this paragraph, a flow indicator means a device which indicates the presence of either gas or vapor flow in the bypass line.
