
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks and Containers
###### ยง 261.1087 Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
####### e.g.,

(ii) If a seal or locking device is used to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the device shall be placed on the mechanism by which the bypass device position is controlled (valve handle, damper lever) when the bypass device is in the closed position such that the bypass device cannot be opened without breaking the seal or removing the lock. Examples of such devices include, but are not limited to, a car-seal or a lock-and-key configuration valve. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to verify that the bypass mechanism is maintained in the closed position.

(4) The closed-vent system shall be inspected and monitored by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material in accordance with the procedure specified in ยง 261.1033(l).

(c) The control device shall meet the following requirements:

(1) The control device shall be one of the following devices:

(i) A control device designed and operated to reduce the total organic content of the inlet vapor stream vented to the control device by at least 95 percent by weight;

(ii) An enclosed combustion device designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of ยง 261.1033(c) of this part; or

(iii) A flare designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of ยง 261.1033(d) of this part.

(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material who elects to use a closed-vent system and control device to comply with the requirements of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Periods of planned routine maintenance of the control device, during which the control device does not meet the specifications of paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, as applicable, shall not exceed 240 hours per year.

(ii) The specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section for control devices do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance.

(iii) The specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section for control devices do not apply during a control device system malfunction.
