
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks and Containers
###### § 261.1086 Standards: containers.
####### Container Level 3 standards.

(e)(1) A container using Container Level 3 controls is one of the following:

(i) A container that is vented directly through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) A container that is vented inside an enclosure which is exhausted through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(2) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall meet the following requirements, as applicable to the type of air emission control equipment selected by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material:

(i) The container enclosure shall be designed and operated in accordance with the criteria for a permanent total enclosure as specified in "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B. The enclosure may have permanent or temporary openings to allow worker access; passage of containers through the enclosure by conveyor or other mechanical means; entry of permanent mechanical or electrical equipment; or direct airflow into the enclosure. The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall perform the verification procedure for the enclosure as specified in Section 5.0 to "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" initially when the enclosure is first installed and, thereafter, annually.

(ii) The closed-vent system and control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1087 of this subpart.

(3) Safety devices, as defined in § 261.1081, may be installed and operated as necessary on any container, enclosure, closed-vent system, or control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(4) Remanufacturers or other persons that store or treat the hazardous secondary material using Container Level 3 controls in accordance with the provisions of this subpart shall inspect and monitor the closed-vent systems and control devices as specified in § 261.1087 of this subpart.

(5) Remanufacturers or other persons that store or treat the hazardous secondary material that use Container Level 3 controls in accordance with the provisions of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the records specified in § 261.1089(d) of this subpart.

(6) Transfer of hazardous secondary material in or out of a container using Container Level 3 controls shall be conducted in such a manner as to minimize exposure of the hazardous secondary material to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, considering the physical properties of the hazardous secondary material and good engineering and safety practices for handling flammable, ignitable, explosive, reactive, or other hazardous materials. Examples of container loading procedures that the EPA considers to meet the requirements of this paragraph include using any one of the following: a submerged-fill pipe or other submerged-fill method to load liquids into the container; a vapor-balancing system or a vapor-recovery system to collect and control the vapors displaced from the container during filling operations; or a fitted opening in the top of a container through which the hazardous secondary material is filled and subsequently purging the transfer line before removing it from the container opening.

(f) For the purpose of compliance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(i) of this section, containers shall be used that meet the applicable U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations on packaging hazardous materials for transportation as follows:

(1) The container meets the applicable requirements specified in 49 CFR part 178 or part 179.

(2) Hazardous secondary material is managed in the container in accordance with the applicable requirements specified in 49 CFR part 107, subpart B and 49 CFR parts 172, 173, and 180.

(3) For the purpose of complying with this subpart, no exceptions to the 49 CFR part 178 or part 179 regulations are allowed.

(g) To determine compliance with the no detectable organic emissions requirement of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the procedure specified in § 261.1083(d) of this subpart shall be used.
