
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 261 - IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks and Containers
###### § 261.1089 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material subject to requirements of this subpart shall record and maintain the information specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section, as applicable to the facility. Except for air emission control equipment design documentation and information required by paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section, records required by this section shall be maintained at the facility for a minimum of 3 years. Air emission control equipment design documentation shall be maintained at the facility until the air emission control equipment is replaced or otherwise no longer in service. Information required by paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section shall be maintained at the facility for as long as the hazardous secondary material management unit is not using air emission controls specified in §§ 261.1084 through 261.1087 of this subpart in accordance with the conditions specified in § 261.1080(b)(7) or (d) of this subpart, respectively.

(b) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using a tank with air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records for the tank that include the following information:

(1) For each tank using air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record:

(i) A tank identification number (or other unique identification description as selected by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material).

(ii) A record for each inspection required by § 261.1084 of this subpart that includes the following information:

(A) Date inspection was conducted.

(B) For each defect detected during the inspection: The location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, and corrective action taken to repair the defect. In the event that repair of the defect is delayed in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084 of this subpart, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall also record the reason for the delay and the date that completion of repair of the defect is expected.

(2) In addition to the information required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record the following information, as applicable to the tank:

(i) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using a fixed roof to comply with the Tank Level 1 control requirements specified in § 261.1084(c) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records for each determination for the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous secondary material in the tank performed in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1084(c) of this subpart. The records shall include the date and time the samples were collected, the analysis method used, and the analysis results.

(ii) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using an internal floating roof to comply with the Tank Level 2 control requirements specified in § 261.1084(e) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain documentation describing the floating roof design.

(iii) Remanufacturer or other persons that store or treat the hazardous secondary material using an external floating roof to comply with the Tank Level 2 control requirements specified in § 261.1084(f) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the following records:

(A) Documentation describing the floating roof design and the dimensions of the tank.

(B) Records for each seal gap inspection required by § 261.1084(f)(3) of this subpart describing the results of the seal gap measurements. The records shall include the date that the measurements were performed, the raw data obtained for the measurements, and the calculations of the total gap surface area. In the event that the seal gap measurements do not conform to the specifications in § 261.1084(f)(1) of this subpart, the records shall include a description of the repairs that were made, the date the repairs were made, and the date the tank was emptied, if necessary.

(iv) Each remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using an enclosure to comply with the Tank Level 2 control requirements specified in § 261.1084(i) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the following records:

(A) Records for the most recent set of calculations and measurements performed by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to verify that the enclosure meets the criteria of a permanent total enclosure as specified in "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B.

(B) Records required for the closed-vent system and control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using containers with Container Level 3 air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1086 of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records that include the following information:

(1) Records for the most recent set of calculations and measurements performed by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material to verify that the enclosure meets the criteria of a permanent total enclosure as specified in "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B.

(2) Records required for the closed-vent system and control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) The remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material using a closed-vent system and control device in accordance with the requirements of § 261.1087 of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records that include the following information:

(1) Documentation for the closed-vent system and control device that includes:

(i) Certification that is signed and dated by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material stating that the control device is designed to operate at the performance level documented by a design analysis as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section or by performance tests as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section when the tank or container is or would be operating at capacity or the highest level reasonably expected to occur.

(ii) If a design analysis is used, then design documentation as specified in § 261.1035(b)(4). The documentation shall include information prepared by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material or provided by the control device manufacturer or vendor that describes the control device design in accordance with § 261.1035(b)(4)(iii) and certification by the remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material that the control equipment meets the applicable specifications.

(iii) If performance tests are used, then a performance test plan as specified in § 261.1035(b)(3) and all test results.

(iv) Information as required by §§ 261.1035(c)(1) and 261.1035(c)(2), as applicable.

(v) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record, on a semiannual basis, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(v)(A) and (B) of this section for those planned routine maintenance operations that would require the control device not to meet the requirements of § 261.1087(c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this subpart, as applicable.

(A) A description of the planned routine maintenance that is anticipated to be performed for the control device during the next 6-month period. This description shall include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods.

(B) A description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6-month period. This description shall include the type of maintenance performed and the total number of hours during those 6 months that the control device did not meet the requirements of § 261.1087(c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this subpart, as applicable, due to planned routine maintenance.

(vi) A remanufacturer or other person that stores or treats the hazardous secondary material shall record the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(vi)(A) through (C) of this section for those unexpected control device system malfunctions that would require the control device not to meet the requirements of § 261.1087(c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this subpart, as applicable.

(A) The occurrence and duration of each malfunction of the control device system.

(B) The duration of each period during a malfunction when gases, vapors, or fumes are vented from the hazardous secondary material management unit through the closed-vent system to the control device while the control device is not properly functioning.

(C) Actions taken during periods of malfunction to restore a malfunctioning control device to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(vii) Records of the management of carbon removed from a carbon adsorption system conducted in accordance with § 261.1087(c)(3)(ii) of this subpart.
