
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 262.13 Generator category determination.
####### Mixing hazardous wastes with solid wastes,Very small quantity generator wastes.

(f)-(1)(i) Hazardous wastes generated by a very small quantity generator may be mixed with solid wastes. Very small quantity generators may mix a portion or all of its hazardous waste with solid waste and remain subject to ยง 262.14 even though the resultant mixture exceeds the quantity limits identified in the definition of very small quantity generator at ยง 260.10 of this chapter, unless the mixture exhibits one or more of the characteristics of hazardous waste identified in part 261 subpart C of this chapter.

(ii) If the resulting mixture exhibits a characteristic of hazardous waste, this resultant mixture is a newly-generated hazardous waste. The very small quantity generator must count both the resultant mixture amount plus the other hazardous waste generated in the calendar month to determine whether the total quantity exceeds the very small quantity generator calendar month quantity limits identified in the definition of generator categories found in ยง 260.10 of this chapter. If so, to remain exempt from the permitting, interim status, and operating standards, the very small quantity generator must meet the conditions for exemption applicable to either a small quantity generator or a large quantity generator. The very small quantity generator must also comply with the applicable independent requirements for either a small quantity generator or a large quantity generator.

(iii) If a very small quantity generator's wastes are mixed with used oil, the mixture is subject to 40 CFR part 279. Any material produced from such a mixture by processing, blending, or other treatment is also regulated under 40 CFR part 279.
