
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 262.13 Generator category determination.
####### Small quantity generator and large quantity generator wastes.

(2)(i) Hazardous wastes generated by a small quantity generator or large quantity generator may be mixed with solid waste. These mixtures are subject to the following: the mixture rule in §§ 261.3(a)(2)(iv), (b)(2) and (3), and (g)(2)(i); the prohibition of dilution rule at § 268.3(a); the land disposal restriction requirements of § 268.40 if a characteristic hazardous waste is mixed with a solid waste so that it no longer exhibits the hazardous characteristic; and the hazardous waste determination requirement at § 262.11.

(ii) If the resulting mixture is found to be a hazardous waste, this resultant mixture is a newly-generated hazardous waste. A small quantity generator must count both the resultant mixture amount plus the other hazardous waste generated in the calendar month to determine whether the total quantity exceeds the small quantity generator calendar monthly quantity limits identified in the definition of generator categories found in § 260.10 of this chapter. If so, to remain exempt from the permitting, interim status, and operating standards, the small quantity generator must meet the conditions for exemption applicable to a large quantity generator. The small quantity generator must also comply with the applicable independent requirements for a large quantity generator.
