
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 262.16 Conditions for exemption for a small quantity generator that accumulates hazardous waste.
####### e.g.,,e.g.,

(E) The construction materials of, and the area immediately surrounding, discharge confinement structures (dikes) at least weekly to detect erosion or obvious signs of leakage (wet spots or dead vegetation). The generator must remedy any deterioration or malfunction of equipment or structures which the inspection reveals on a schedule which ensures that the problem does not lead to an environmental or human health hazard. Where a hazard is imminent or has already occurred, remedial action must be taken immediately.

(iv) A small quantity generator accumulating hazardous waste in tanks or tank systems that have full secondary containment and that either use leak detection equipment to alert personnel to leaks, or implement established workplace practices to ensure leaks are promptly identified, must inspect at least weekly, where applicable, the areas identified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section. Use of the alternate inspection schedule must be documented in the generator's operating record. This documentation must include a description of the established workplace practices at the generator.

(v) [Reserved]

(vi) A small quantity generator accumulating hazardous waste in tanks must, upon closure of the facility, remove all hazardous waste from tanks, discharge control equipment, and discharge confinement structures. At closure, as throughout the operating period, unless the small quantity generator can demonstrate, in accordance with ยง 261.3(c) or (d) of this chapter, that any solid waste removed from its tank is not a hazardous waste, then it must manage such waste in accordance with all applicable provisions of parts 262, 263, 265 and 268 of this chapter.

(vii) A small quantity generator must comply with the following special conditions for accumulation of ignitable or reactive waste:

(A) Ignitable or reactive waste must not be placed in a tank, unless:
