
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 262.17 Conditions for exemption for a large quantity generator that accumulates hazardous waste.
####### 6

() Shutdown of operations.

(D) For facility employees that receive emergency response training pursuant to Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations 29 CFR 1910.120(p)(8) and 1910.120(q), the large quantity generator is not required to provide separate emergency response training pursuant to this section, provided that the overall facility training meets all the conditions of exemption in this section.

(ii) Facility personnel must successfully complete the program required in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section within six months after the date of their employment or assignment to the facility, or to a new position at the facility, whichever is later. Employees must not work in unsupervised positions until they have completed the training standards of paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section.

(iii) Facility personnel must take part in an annual review of the initial training required in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section.

(iv) The large quantity generator must maintain the following documents and records at the facility:

(A) The job title for each position at the facility related to hazardous waste management, and the name of the employee filling each job;

(B) A written job description for each position listed under paragraph (a)(7)(iv)(A) of this section. This description may be consistent in its degree of specificity with descriptions for other similar positions in the same company location or bargaining unit, but must include the requisite skill, education, or other qualifications, and duties of facility personnel assigned to each position;

(C) A written description of the type and amount of both introductory and continuing training that will be given to each person filling a position listed under paragraph (a)(7)(iv)(A) of this section;

(D) Records that document that the training or job experience, required under paragraphs (a)(7)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, has been given to, and completed by, facility personnel.

(v) Training records on current personnel must be kept until closure of the facility. Training records on former employees must be kept for at least three years from the date the employee last worked at the facility. Personnel training records may accompany personnel transferred within the same company.
