
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart B - Manifest Requirements Applicable to Small and Large Quantity Generators
###### ยง 262.21 Manifest tracking numbers, manifest printing, and obtaining manifests.
####### i.e.

(i) Paper type (, manufacturer and grade of the manifest paper);

(ii) Paper weight of each copy;

(iii) Ink color of the manifest's instructions. If screening of the ink was used, the registrant must indicate the extent of the screening; and

(iv) Method of binding the copies.

(3) The registrant need not submit samples of the continuation sheet if it will print its continuation sheet using the same paper type, paper weight of each copy, ink color of the instructions, and binding method as its manifest form samples.

(e) EPA will evaluate the forms and either approve the registrant to print them as proposed or request additional information or modification to them before approval. EPA will notify the registrant of its decision by mail. The registrant cannot use or distribute its forms until EPA approves them. An approved registrant must print the manifest and continuation sheet according to its application approved under paragraph (c) of this section and the manifest specifications in paragraph (f) of this section. It also must print the forms according to the paper type, paper weight, ink color of the manifest instructions and binding method of its approved forms.

(f) Paper manifests and continuation sheets must be printed according to the following specifications:

(1) The manifest and continuation sheet must be printed with the exact format and appearance as EPA Forms 8700-22 and 8700-22A, respectively. However, information required to complete the manifest may be pre-printed on the manifest form.

(2) A unique manifest tracking number assigned in accordance with a numbering system approved by EPA must be pre-printed in Item 4 of the manifest. The tracking number must consist of a unique three-letter suffix following nine digits.

(3) The manifest and continuation sheet must be printed on 8x 11-inch white paper, excluding common stubs (e.g., top- or side-bound stubs). The paper must be durable enough to withstand normal use.
