
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart H - Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Waste for Recovery or Disposal
###### ยง 262.81 Definitions.
####### Disposal operations

means activities which do not lead to the possibility of resource recovery, recycling, reclamation, direct re-use or alternate uses, which include:

(1) D1 Release or Deposit into or onto land, other than by any of operations D2 through D5 or D12.

(2) D2 Land treatment, such as biodegradation of liquids or sludges in soils.

(3) D3 Deep injection, such as injection into wells, salt domes or naturally occurring repositories.

(4) D4 Surface impoundment, such as placing of liquids or sludges into pits, ponds or lagoons.

(5) D5 Specially engineered landfill, such as placement into lined discrete cells which are capped and isolated from one another and the environment.

(6) D6 Release into a water body other than a sea or ocean, and other than by operation D4.

(7) D7 Release into a sea or ocean, including sea-bed insertion, other than by operation D4.

(8) D8 Biological treatment not specified elsewhere in operations D1 through D12, which results in final compounds or mixtures which are discarded by means of any of operations D1 through D12.

(9) D9 Physical or chemical treatment not specified elsewhere in operations D1 through D12, such as evaporation, drying, calcination, neutralization, or precipitation, which results in final compounds or mixtures which are discarded by means of any of operations D1through D12.

(10) D10 Incineration on land.

(11) D11 Incineration at sea.

(12) D12 Permanent storage.

(13) D13 Interim blending or mixing, before an operation that bears any of the disposal operations D1 to D12.

(14) D14 Interim repackaging, before an operation that bears any of the disposal operations D1 to D12.

(15) D15 Interim storage, before an operation that bears any of the disposal operations D1 to D12.

(16) DC1 Release, including the venting of compressed or liquified gases, or treatment, other than by any of disposal operation codes D1 to D12. (for transboundary movements with Canada only).

(17) DC2 Testing of a new technology to dispose of a hazardous waste (for transboundary movements with Canada only).
