
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart H - Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Waste for Recovery or Disposal
###### ยง 262.81 Definitions.
####### Recovery operations

means activities leading to resource recovery, recycling, reclamation, direct re-use or alternative uses, which include:

(1) R1 Use as a fuel (other than in direct incineration) or other means to generate energy.

(2) R2 Solvent reclamation/regeneration.

(3) R3 Recycling/reclamation of organic substances which are not used as solvents.

(4) R4 Recycling/reclamation of metals and metal compounds.

(5) R5 Recycling/reclamation of other inorganic materials.

(6) R6 Regeneration of acids or bases.

(7) R7 Recovery of components used for pollution abatement.

(8) R8 Recovery of components used from catalysts.

(9) R9 Used oil re-refining or other reuses of previously used oil.

(10) R10 Land treatment resulting in benefit to agriculture or ecological improvement.

(11) R11 Use of residual materials obtained from any of the recovery operation codes numbered R1 through R10 or RC1.

(12) R12 Interim exchange of wastes before recycling using any of the recovery operation codes numbered R1 through R11 or RC1.

(13) R13 Interim accumulation of wastes before recycling using any of the recovery operation codes numbered R1 through R11 or RC1.

(14) RC1 Recovery or regeneration of a substance or use or re-use of a recyclable material, other than by any of operations R1 to R10 (for transboundary shipments with Canada only).

(15) RC2 Testing of a new technology to recycle a hazardous recyclable material (for transboundary shipments with Canada only).

(16) RC3 Interim storage prior to any of operations R1 to R11 or RC1 (for transboundary shipments with Canada only).
