
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix P to Part 51 - Minimum Emission Monitoring Requirements
###### Minimum data requirements.

4The following paragraphs set forth the minimum data reporting requirements necessary to comply with ยง 51.214(d) and (e).

4.1 The State plan shall require owners or operators of facilities required to install continuous monitoring systems to submit a written report of excess emissions twice per year at 6-month intervals and the nature and cause of the excess emissions, if known. The averaging period used for data reporting should be established by the State to correspond to the averaging period specified in the emission test method used to determine compliance with an emission standard for the pollutant/source category in question. The required report shall include, as a minimum, the data stipulated in this appendix.

4.2 For opacity measurements, the summary shall consist of the magnitude in actual percent opacity of all one-minute (or such other time period deemed appropriate by the State) averages of opacity greater than the opacity standard in the applicable plan for each hour of operation of the facility. Average values may be obtained by integration over the averaging period or by arithmetically averaging a minimum of four equally spaced, instantaneous opacity measurements per minute. Any time period exempted shall be considered before determining the excess averages of opacity (e.g., whenever a regulation allows two minutes of opacity measurements in excess of the standard, the State shall require the source to report all opacity averages, in any one hour, in excess of the standard, minus the two-minute exemption). If more than one opacity standard applies, excess emissions data must be submitted in relation to all such standards.

4.3 For gaseous measurements the summary shall consist of emission averages, in the units of the applicable standard, for each averaging period during which the applicable standard was exceeded.

4.4 The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero and span checks, and the nature of system repairs or adjustments shall be reported. The State may require proof of continuous monitoring system performance whenever system repairs or adjustments have been made.

4.5 When no excess emissions have occurred and the continuous monitoring system(s) have not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be included in the report.

4.6 The State plan shall require owners or operators of affected facilities to maintain a file of all information reported as specified in paragraph 4.1 of this appendix, all other data collected either by the continuous monitoring system or as necessary to convert monitoring data to the units of the applicable standard for a minimum of two years from the date of collection of such data or submission of such summaries.
