
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart H - Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Waste for Recovery or Disposal
###### ยง 262.83 Exports of hazardous waste.
####### Exports to pre-consented recovery facilities in OECD Member countries.

(2)If the recovery facility is located in an OECD member country and has been pre-consented by the competent authority of the OECD member country to recover the waste sent by exporters located in other OECD member countries, the notification may cover up to three years of shipments. Notifications proposing export to a pre-consented facility in an OECD member country must include all information listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(xiii) of this section and additionally state that the facility is pre-consented. Exporters must submit the notification to EPA using the allowable methods listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section at least ten days before the first shipment is expected to leave the United States.

(3) Notifications listing interim recycling operations or interim disposal operations. If the foreign receiving facility listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section will engage in any of the interim recovery operations R12 or R13 or interim disposal operations D13 through D15, or in the case of transboundary movements with Canada, any of the interim recovery operations R12, R13, or RC3, or interim disposal operations D13 to D14, or D15, the notification submitted according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section must also include the final foreign recovery or disposal facility name, address, telephone, fax numbers, email address, technologies employed, and which of the applicable recovery or disposal operations R1 through R11 and D1 through D12, or in the case of transboundary movements with Canada, which of the applicable recovery or disposal operations R1 through R11, RC1 to RC2, D1 through D12, and DC1 to DC2 will be employed at the final foreign recovery or disposal facility. The recovery and disposal operations in this paragraph are defined in ยง 262.81.
