
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart H - Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Waste for Recovery or Disposal
###### ยง 262.84 Imports of hazardous waste.
####### Renotifications.

(3)When the foreign exporter wishes to change any of the conditions specified on the original notification (including increasing the estimate of the total quantity of hazardous waste specified in the original notification or adding transporters), the importer must submit a renotification of the changes to EPA using the allowable methods in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Any shipment using the requested changes cannot take place until EPA and the countries of transit consent to the changes and the importer receives an EPA AOC letter documenting the consents to the changes.

(4) A notification is complete when EPA determines the notification satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (xiii) of this section.

(5) Where EPA and the countries of transit consent to the proposed transboundary movement(s) of the hazardous waste(s), EPA will forward an EPA AOC letter to the importer documenting the countries' consents and EPA's consent. Where any of the countries of transit or EPA objects to the proposed transboundary movement(s) of the hazardous waste or withdraws a prior consent, EPA will notify the importer.

(6) Export of hazardous wastes originally imported into the United States. Export of hazardous wastes that were originally imported into the United States for recycling or disposal operations is prohibited unless an exporter in the United States complies with the export requirements in ยง 262.83(b)(7).
