
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart H - Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Waste for Recovery or Disposal
###### § 262.84 Imports of hazardous waste.
####### Import contract requirements.

(f)(1) Imports of hazardous waste must occur under the terms of a valid written contract, chain of contracts, or equivalent arrangements (when the movement occurs between parties controlled by the same corporate or legal entity). Such contracts or equivalent arrangements must be executed by the foreign exporter, importer, and the owner or operator of the receiving facility, and must specify responsibilities for each. Contracts or equivalent arrangements are valid for the purposes of this section only if persons assuming obligations under the contracts or equivalent arrangements have appropriate legal status to conduct the operations specified in the contract or equivalent arrangements.

(2) Contracts or equivalent arrangements must specify the name and EPA ID number, where available, of paragraph (f)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section:

(i) The foreign company from where each import shipment of hazardous waste is initiated;

(ii) Each person who will have physical custody of the hazardous wastes;

(iii) Each person who will have legal control of the hazardous wastes; and

(iv) The receiving facility.

(3) Contracts or equivalent arrangements must specify the use of a movement document in accordance with § 262.84(d).

(4) Contracts or equivalent arrangements must specify which party to the contract will assume responsibility for alternate management of the hazardous wastes if their disposition cannot be carried out as described in the notification of intent to export submitted by either the foreign exporter or the importer. In such cases, contracts must specify that:

(i) The transporter or receiving facility having actual possession or physical control over the hazardous wastes will immediately inform the foreign exporter and importer, and the competent authority where the shipment is located of the need to arrange alternate management or return; and

(ii) The person specified in the contract will assume responsibility for the adequate management of the hazardous wastes in compliance with applicable laws and regulations including, if necessary, arranging the return of the hazardous wastes and, as the case may be, shall provide the notification for re-export required in § 262.83(b)(7).

(5) Contracts must specify that the importer or the receiving facility that performed interim recycling operations R12, R13, or RC3, or interim disposal operations D13 through D15, as appropriate, will provide the notification required in § 262.83(b)(7) prior to the re-export of hazardous wastes. The recovery and disposal operations in this paragraph are defined in § 262.81.

(6) Contracts or equivalent arrangements must include provisions for financial guarantees, if required by the competent authorities of any countries concerned, in accordance with applicable national or international law requirements.

(7) Contracts or equivalent arrangements must contain provisions requiring each contracting party to comply with all applicable requirements of this subpart.

(8) Upon request by EPA, importers or disposal or recovery facilities must submit to EPA copies of contracts, chain of contracts, or equivalent arrangements (when the movement occurs between parties controlled by the same corporate or legal entity).
