
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart K - Alternative Requirements for Hazardous Waste Determination and Accumulation of Unwanted Material for Laboratories Owned by Eligible Academic Entities
###### § 262.204 How an eligible academic entity indicates it will withdraw from the requirements of this subpart.

(a) An eligible academic entity must notify the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator in writing, using the RCRA Subtitle C Site Identification Form (EPA Form 8700-12), that it is electing to no longer be subject to the requirements of this subpart for all the laboratories owned by the eligible academic entity under the same EPA identification number and that it will comply with the requirements of §§ 262.11 and 262.15 for small quantity generators and large quantity generators. An eligible academic entity that is a very small quantity generator and does not have an EPA identification number must notify that it is withdrawing from the requirements of this subpart for all the laboratories owned by the eligible academic entity that are on site and that it will comply with the conditional exemption in § 262.14. An eligible academic entity must submit a separate notification (Site Identification Form) for each EPA identification number (or site, for very small quantity generators) that is withdrawing from the requirements of this subpart and must submit the Site Identification Form before it begins operating under the standards in §§ 262.11 and 262.15 for small quantity generators and large quantity generators or § 262.14 for very small quantity generators.

(b) When submitting the Site Identification Form, the eligible academic entity must, at a minimum, fill out the following fields on the form:

(1) Reason for Submittal.

(2) Site EPA Identification Number (except for conditionally exempt small quantity generators).

(3) Site Name.

(4) Site Location Information.

(5) Site Land Type.

(6) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Code(s) for the Site.

(7) Site Mailing Address.

(8) Site Contact Person.

(9) Operator and Legal Owner of the Site.

(10) Type of Regulated Waste Activity.

(11) Certification.

(c) An eligible academic entity must keep a copy of the withdrawal notice on file at the eligible academic entity for three years from the date of the notification.
