
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart K - Alternative Requirements for Hazardous Waste Determination and Accumulation of Unwanted Material for Laboratories Owned by Eligible Academic Entities
###### ยง 262.203 How an eligible academic entity indicates it will be subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(a) An eligible academic entity must notify the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator in writing, using the RCRA Subtitle C Site Identification Form (EPA Form 8700-12), that it is electing to be subject to the requirements of this subpart for all the laboratories owned by the eligible academic entity under the same EPA identification number. An eligible academic entity that is a very small quantity generator and does not have an EPA identification number must notify that it is electing to be subject to the requirements of this subpart for all the laboratories owned by the eligible academic entity that are on site, as defined by ยง 260.10 of this chapter. An eligible academic entity must submit a separate notification (Site Identification Form) for each EPA identification number (or site, for very small quantity generators) that is electing to be subject to the requirements of this subpart, and must submit the Site Identification Form before it begins operating under this subpart.

(b) When submitting the Site Identification Form, the eligible academic entity must, at a minimum, fill out the following fields on the form:

(1) Reason for Submittal.

(2) Site EPA identification number (except for very small quantity generators).

(3) Site Name.

(4) Site Location Information.

(5) Site Land Type.

(6) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Code(s) for the Site.

(7) Site Mailing Address.

(8) Site Contact Person.

(9) Operator and Legal Owner of the Site.

(10) Type of Regulated Waste Activity.

(11) Certification.

(c) An eligible academic entity must keep a copy of the notification on file at the eligible academic entity for as long as its laboratories are subject to this subpart.

(d) A teaching hospital that is not owned by a college or university must keep a copy of its formal written affiliation agreement with a college or university on file at the teaching hospital for as long as its laboratories are subject to this subpart.

(e) A non-profit research institute that is not owned by a college or university must keep a copy of its formal written affiliation agreement with a college or university on file at the non-profit research institute for as long as its laboratories are subject to this subpart.
