
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart K - Alternative Requirements for Hazardous Waste Determination and Accumulation of Unwanted Material for Laboratories Owned by Eligible Academic Entities
###### § 262.214 Laboratory management plan.

An eligible academic entity must develop and retain a written Laboratory Management Plan, or revise an existing written plan. The Laboratory Management Plan is a site-specific document that describes how the eligible academic entity will manage unwanted materials in compliance with this subpart. An eligible academic entity may write one Laboratory Management Plan for all the laboratories owned by the eligible academic entity that have opted into this subpart, even if the laboratories are located at sites with different EPA Identification Numbers. The Laboratory Management Plan must contain two parts with a total of nine elements identified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. In Part I of its Laboratory Management Plan, an eligible academic entity must describe its procedures for each of the elements listed in paragraph (a) of this section. An eligible academic entity must implement and comply with the specific provisions that it develops to address the elements in Part I of the Laboratory Management Plan. In Part II of its Laboratory Management Plan, an eligible academic entity must describe its best management practices for each of the elements listed in paragraph (b) of this section. The specific actions taken by an eligible academic entity to implement each element in Part II of its Laboratory Management Plan may vary from the procedures described in the eligible academic entity's Laboratory Management Plan, without constituting a violation of this subpart. An eligible academic entity may include additional elements and best management practices in Part II of its Laboratory Management Plan if it chooses.

(a) The eligible academic entity must implement and comply with the specific provisions of Part I of its Laboratory Management Plan. In Part I of its Laboratory Management Plan, an eligible academic entity must:

(1) Describe procedures for container labeling in accordance with § 262.206(a), as follows:

(i) Identifying whether the eligible academic entity will use the term "unwanted material" on the containers in the laboratory. If not, identify an equally effective term that will be used in lieu of "unwanted material" and consistently by the eligible academic entity. The equally effective term, if used, has the same meaning and is subject to the same requirements as "unwanted material."

(ii) Identifying the manner in which information that is "associated with the container" will be imparted.

(2) Identify whether the eligible academic entity will comply with § 262.208(a)(1) or (a)(2) for regularly scheduled removals of unwanted material from the laboratory.

(b) In Part II of its Laboratory Management Plan, an eligible academic entity must:

(1) Describe its intended best practices for container labeling and management (see the required standards at § 262.206).

(2) Describe its intended best practices for providing training for laboratory workers and students commensurate with their duties (see the required standards at § 262.207(a)).

(3) Describe its intended best practices for providing training to ensure safe on-site transfers of unwanted material and hazardous waste by trained professionals (see the required standards at § 262.207(d)(1)).

(4) Describe its intended best practices for removing unwanted material from the laboratory, including:

(i) For regularly scheduled removals-Develop a regular schedule for identifying and removing unwanted materials from its laboratories (see the required standards at § 262.208(a)(1) and (a)(2)).

(ii) For removals when maximum volumes are exceeded:

(A) Describe its intended best practices for removing unwanted materials from the laboratory within 10 calendar days when unwanted materials have exceeded their maximum volumes (see the required standards at § 262.208(d)).

(B) Describe its intended best practices for communicating that unwanted materials have exceeded their maximum volumes.

(5) Describe its intended best practices for making hazardous waste determinations, including specifying the duties of the individuals involved in the process (see the required standards at § 262.11(a) through (d) and §§ 262.209 through 262.212).

(6) Describe its intended best practices for laboratory clean-outs, if the eligible academic entity plans to use the incentives for laboratory clean-outs provided in § 262.213, including:

(i) Procedures for conducting laboratory clean-outs (see the required standards at § 262.213(a)(1) through (3)); and

(ii) Procedures for documenting laboratory clean-outs (see the required standards at § 262.213(a)(4)).

(7) Describe its intended best practices for emergency prevention, including:

(i) Procedures for emergency prevention, notification, and response, appropriate to the hazards in the laboratory; and

(ii) A list of chemicals that the eligible academic entity has, or is likely to have, that become more dangerous when they exceed their expiration date and/or as they degrade; and

(iii) Procedures to safely dispose of chemicals that become more dangerous when they exceed their expiration date and/or as they degrade; and

(iv) Procedures for the timely characterization of unknown chemicals.

(c) An eligible academic entity must make its Laboratory Management Plan available to laboratory workers, students, or any others at the eligible academic entity who request it.

(d) An eligible academic entity must review and revise its Laboratory Management Plan, as needed.
