
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart K - Alternative Requirements for Hazardous Waste Determination and Accumulation of Unwanted Material for Laboratories Owned by Eligible Academic Entities
###### § 262.210 Making the hazardous waste determination in the laboratory before the unwanted material is removed from the laboratory.

If an eligible academic entity makes the hazardous waste determination, pursuant to § 262.11, for unwanted material in the laboratory, it must comply with the following:

(a) A trained professional must make the hazardous waste determination, pursuant to § 262.11(a) through (d), before the unwanted material is removed from the laboratory.

(b) If an unwanted material is a hazardous waste, the eligible academic entity must:

(1) Write the words "hazardous waste" on the container label that is affixed or attached to the container, before the hazardous waste may be removed from the laboratory; and

(2) Write the appropriate hazardous waste code(s) on the label that is associated with the container (or on the label that is affixed or attached to the container, if that is preferred) before the hazardous waste is transported off-site.

(3) Count the hazardous waste toward the eligible academic entity's generator category, pursuant to § 262.13, in the calendar month that the hazardous waste determination was made.

(c) A trained professional must accompany all hazardous waste that is transferred from the laboratory(ies) to an on-site central accumulation area or on-site interim status or permitted treatment, storage or disposal facility.

(d) When hazardous waste is removed from the laboratory:

(1) Large quantity generators and small quantity generators must ensure it is taken directly from the laboratory(ies) to an on-site central accumulation area, or on-site interim status or permitted treatment, storage or disposal facility, or transported off-site.

(2) Very small quantity generators must ensure it is taken directly from the laboratory(ies) to any of the types of facilities listed in § 262.14.

(e) An unwanted material that is a hazardous waste is subject to all applicable hazardous waste regulations when it is removed from the laboratory.
