
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 262 - STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO GENERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
##### Subpart M - Preparedness, Prevention, and Emergency Procedures for Large Quantity Generators
###### ยง 262.265 Emergency procedures.
####### e.g.,

(iii) Time and type of incident (release, fire);

(iv) Name and quantity of material(s) involved, to the extent known;

(v) The extent of injuries, if any; and

(vi) The possible hazards to human health, or the environment, outside the facility.

(e) During an emergency, the emergency coordinator must take all reasonable measures necessary to ensure that fires, explosions, and releases do not occur, recur, or spread to other hazardous waste at the generator's facility. These measures must include, where applicable, stopping processes and operations, collecting and containing released hazardous waste, and removing or isolating containers.

(f) If the generator stops operations in response to a fire, explosion or release, the emergency coordinator must monitor for leaks, pressure buildup, gas generation, or ruptures in valves, pipes, or other equipment, wherever this is appropriate.

(g) Immediately after an emergency, the emergency coordinator must provide for treating, storing, or disposing of recovered waste, contaminated soil or surface water, or any other material that results from a release, fire, or explosion at the facility. Unless the generator can demonstrate, in accordance with ยง 261.3(c) or (d) of this chapter, that the recovered material is not a hazardous waste, then it is a newly generated hazardous waste that must be managed in accordance with all the applicable requirements and conditions for exemption in parts 262, 263, and 265 of this chapter.

(h) The emergency coordinator must ensure that, in the affected area(s) of the facility:

(1) No hazardous waste that may be incompatible with the released material is treated, stored, or disposed of until cleanup procedures are completed; and

(2) All emergency equipment listed in the contingency plan is cleaned and fit for its intended use before operations are resumed.

(i) The generator must note in the operating record the time, date, and details of any incident that requires implementing the contingency plan. Within 15 days after the incident, the generator must submit a written report on the incident to the Regional Administrator. The report must include:

(1) Name, address, and telephone number of the generator;
