
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart E - Manifest System, Recordkeeping, and Reporting
###### § 264.73 Operating record.

(a) The owner or operator must keep a written operating record at his facility.

(b) The following information must be recorded, as it becomes available, and maintained in the operating record for three years unless noted as follows:

(1) A description and the quantity of each hazardous waste received, and the method(s) and date(s) of its treatment, storage, or disposal at the facility as required by appendix I of this part. This information must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility;

(2) The location of each hazardous waste within the facility and the quantity at each location. For disposal facilities, the location and quantity of each hazardous waste must be recorded on a map or diagram that shows each cell or disposal area. For all facilities, this information must include cross-references to manifest document numbers if the waste was accompanied by a manifest. This information must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility.

(3) Records and results of waste analyses and waste determinations performed as specified in §§ 264.13, 264.17, 264.314, 264.341, 264.1034, 264.1063, 264.1083, 268.4(a), and 268.7 of this chapter.

(4) Summary reports and details of all incidents that require implementing the contingency plan as specified in § 264.56(j);

(5) Records and results of inspections as required by § 264.15(d) (except these data need be kept only three years);

(6) Monitoring, testing or analytical data, and corrective action where required by subpart F of this part and §§ 264.19, 264.191, 264.193, 264.195, 264.222, 264.223, 264.226, 264.252-264.254, 264.276, 264.278, 264.280, 264.302-264.304, 264.309, 264.602, 264.1034(c)-264.1034(f), 264.1035, 264.1063(d)-264.1063(i), 264.1064, and 264.1082 through 264.1090 of this part. Maintain in the operating record for three years, except for records and results pertaining to ground-water monitoring and cleanup which must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility.

(7) For off-site facilities, notices to generators as specified in § 264.12(b); and

(8) All closure cost estimates under § 264.142, and for disposal facilities, all post-closure cost estimates under § 264.144 of this part. This information must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility.

(9) A certification by the permittee no less often than annually, that the permittee has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous waste that he generates to the degree determined by the permittee to be economically practicable; and the proposed method of treatment, storage or disposal is that practicable method currently available to the permittee which minimizes the present and future threat to human health and the environment.

(10) Records of the quantities and date of placement for each shipment of hazardous waste placed in land disposal units under an extension to the effective date of any land disposal restriction granted pursuant to § 268.5 of this chapter, a petition pursuant to § 268.6 of this chapter, or a certification under § 268.8 of this chapter, and the applicable notice required by a generator under § 268.7(a) of this chapter. This information must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility.

(11) For an off-site treatment facility, a copy of the notice, and the certification and demonstration, if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator under § 268.7 or § 268.8;

(12) For an on-site treatment facility, the information contained in the notice (except the manifest number), and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator under § 268.7 or § 268.8;

(13) For an off-site land disposal facility, a copy of the notice, and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator of a treatment facility under §§ 268.7 and 268.8, whichever is applicable; and

(14) For an on-site land disposal facility, the information contained in the notice required by the generator or owner or operator of a treatment facility under § 268.7, except for the manifest number, and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required under § 268.8, whichever is applicable.

(15) For an off-site storage facility, a copy of the notice, and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator under § 268.7 or § 268.8; and

(16) For an on-site storage facility, the information contained in the notice (except the manifest number), and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator under § 268.7 or § 268.8.

(17) Any records required under § 264.1(j)(13).

(18) Monitoring, testing or analytical data where required by § 264.347 must be maintained in the operating record for five years.

(19) Certifications as required by § 264.196(f) must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility.
