
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 11 - SECURITY CLASSIFICATION REGULATIONS PURSUANT TO EXECUTIVE ORDER 11652
##### ยง 11.3 Responsibilities.

(a) Classification and Declassification Committee: This committee, appointed by the Administrator, has the authority to act on all suggestions and complaints with respect to EPA's administration of this order. It shall establish procedures to review and act within 30 days upon all applications and appeals regarding requests for declassification. The Administrator, acting through the committee, shall be authorized to overrule previous determinations in whole or in part when, in its judgment, continued protection is no longer required. If the committee determines that continued classification is required under section 5(B) of Executive Order 11652, it shall promptly so notify the requester and advise him that he may appeal the denial to the Interagency Classification Review Committee.

(b) Director, Security and Inspection Division, Office of Administration: The Director, Security and Inspection Division, is responsible for the overall management and direction of a program designed to assure the proper handling and protection of classified information, and that classified information in the Agency's possession bears the appropriate classification markings. He also will assure that the program operates in accordance with the policy established herein, and will serve as Secretary of the Classification and Declassification Committee.

(c) Assistant Administrators, Regional Administrators, Heads of Staff Offices, Directors of National Environmental Research Centers are responsible for designating an official within their respective areas who shall be responsible for:

(1) Serving as that area's liaison with the Director, Security and Inspection Division, for questions or suggestions concerning security classification matters.

(2) Reviewing and approving, as the representative of the contracting offices, the DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification, issued to contractors.

(d) Employees; (1) Those employees generating documents incorporating classified information properly originated by other agencies of the Federal Government are responsible for assuring that the documents are marked in a manner consistent with security classification assignments.

(2) Those employees preparing information for public release are responsible for assuring that such information is reviewed to eliminate classified information.

(3) All employees are responsible for bringing to the attention of the Director, Security and Inspection Division, any security classification problems needing resolution.
