
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart G - Closure and Post-Closure
###### § 264.112 Closure plan; amendment of plan.
####### Amendment of plan.

(c)The owner or operator must submit a written notification of or request for a permit modification to authorize a change in operating plans, facility design, or the approved closure plan in accordance with the applicable procedures in parts 124 and 270. The written notification or request must include a copy of the amended closure plan for review or approval by the Regional Administrator.

(1) The owner or operator may submit a written notification or request to the Regional Administrator for a permit modification to amend the closure plan at any time prior to the notification of partial or final closure of the facility.

(2) The owner or operator must submit a written notification of or request for a permit modification to authorize a change in the approved closure plan whenever:

(i) Changes in operating plans or facility design affect the closure plan, or

(ii) There is a change in the expected year of closure, if applicable, or

(iii) In conducting partial or final closure activities, unexpected events require a modification of the approved closure plan.

(iv) The owner or operator requests the Regional Administrator to apply alternative requirements to a regulated unit under §§ 264.90(f), 264.110(c), and/or § 264.140(d).

(3) The owner or operator must submit a written request for a permit modification including a copy of the amended closure plan for approval at least 60 days prior to the proposed change in facility design or operation, or no later than 60 days after an unexpected event has occurred which has affected the closure plan. If an unexpected event occurs during the partial or final closure period, the owner or operator must request a permit modification no later than 30 days after the unexpected event. An owner or operator of a surface impoundment or waste pile that intends to remove all hazardous waste at closure and is not otherwise required to prepare a contingent closure plan under § 264.228(c)(1)(i) or § 264.258(c)(1)(i), must submit an amended closure plan to the Regional Administrator no later than 60 days from the date that the owner or operator or Regional Administrator determines that the hazardous waste management unit must be closed as a landfill, subject to the requirements of § 264.310, or no later than 30 days from that date if the determination is made during partial or final closure. The Regional Administrator will approve, disapprove, or modify this amended plan in accordance with the procedures in parts 124 and 270. In accordance with § 270.32 of this chapter, the approved closure plan will become a condition of any RCRA permit issued.

(4) The Regional Administrator may request modifications to the plan under the conditions described in § 264.112(c)(2). The owner or operator must submit the modified plan within 60 days of the Regional Administrator's request, or within 30 days if the change in facility conditions occurs during partial or final closure. Any modifications requested by the Regional Administrator will be approved in accordance with the procedures in parts 124 and 270.
