
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart G - Closure and Post-Closure
###### § 264.118 Post-closure plan; amendment of plan.
####### Written Plan.

(a)The owner or operator of a hazardous waste disposal unit must have a written post-closure plan. In addition, certain surface impoundments and waste piles from which the owner or operator intends to remove or decontaminate the hazardous wastes at partial or final closure are required by §§ 264.228(c)(1)(ii) and 264.258(c)(1)(ii) to have contingent post-closure plans. Owners or operators of surface impoundments and waste piles not otherwise required to prepare contingent post-closure plans under §§ 264.228(c)(1)(ii) and 264.258(c)(1)(ii) must submit a post-closure plan to the Regional Administrator within 90 days from the date that the owner or operator or Regional administrator determines that the hazardous waste management unit must be closed as a landfill, subject to the requirements of §§ 264.117 through 264.120. The plan must be submitted with the permit application, in accordance with § 270.14(b)(13) of this chapter, and approved by the Regional Administrator as part of the permit issuance procedures under part 124 of this chapter. In accordance with § 270.32 of this chapter, the approved post-closure plan will become a condition of any RCRA permit issued.

(b) For each hazardous waste management unit subject to the requirements of this section, the post-closure plan must identify the activities that will be carried on after closure of each disposal unit and the frequency of these activities, and include at least:

(1) A description of the planned monitoring activities and frequencies at which they will be performed to comply with subparts F, K, L, M, N, and X of this part during the post-closure care period; and

(2) A description of the planned maintenance activities, and frequencies at which they will be performed, to ensure:

(i) The integrity of the cap and final cover or other containment systems in accordance with the requirements of subparts F, K, L, M, N, and X of this part; and

(ii) The function of the monitoring equipment in accordance with the requirements of subparts, F, K, L, M, N, and X of this part; and

(3) The name, address, and phone number of the person or office to contact about the hazardous waste disposal unit or facility during the post-closure care period.

(4) For facilities where the Regional Administrator has applied alternative requirements at a regulated unit under §§ 264.90(f), 264.110(c), and/or §§ 264.140(d), either the alternative requirements that apply to the regulated unit, or a reference to the enforceable document containing those requirements.

(c) Until final closure of the facility, a copy of the approved post-closure plan must be furnished to the Regional Administrator upon request, including request by mail. After final closure has been certified, the person or office specified in § 264.118(b)(3) must keep the approved post-closure plan during the remainder of the post-closure period.
