
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart G - Closure and Post-Closure
###### § 264.118 Post-closure plan; amendment of plan.
####### Amendment of plan.

(d)The owner or operator must submit a written notification of or request for a permit modification to authorize a change in the approved post-closure plan in accordance with the applicable requirements in parts 124 and 270. The written notification or request must include a copy of the amended post-closure plan for review or approval by the Regional Administrator.

(1) The owner or operator may submit a written notification or request to the Regional Administrator for a permit modification to amend the post-closure plan at any time during the active life of the facility or during the post-closure care period.

(2) The owner or operator must submit a written notification of or request for a permit modification to authorize a change in the approved post-closure plan whenever:

(i) Changes in operating plans or facility design affect the approved post-closure plan, or

(ii) There is a change in the expected year of final closure, if applicable, or

(iii) Events which occur during the active life of the facility, including partial and final closures, affect the approved post-closure plan.

(iv) The owner or operator requests the Regional Administrator to apply alternative requirements to a regulated unit under §§ 264.90(f), 264.110(c), and/or § 264.140(d).

(3) The owner or operator must submit a written request for a permit modification at least 60 days prior to the proposed change in facility design or operation, or no later than 60 days after an unexpected event has occurred which has affected the post-closure plan. An owner or operator of a surface impoundment or waste pile that intends to remove all hazardous waste at closure and is not otherwise required to submit a contingent post-closure plan under §§ 264.228(c)(1)(ii) and 264.258(c)(1)(ii) must submit a post-closure plan to the Regional Administrator no later than 90 days after the date that the owner or operator or Regional Administrator determines that the hazardous waste management unit must be closed as a landfill, subject to the requirements of § 264.310. The Regional Administrator will approve, disapprove or modify this plan in accordance with the procedures in parts 124 and 270. In accordance with § 270.32 of this chapter, the approved post-closure plan will become a permit condition.

(4) The Regional Administrator may request modifications to the plan under the conditions described in § 264.118(d)(2). The owner or operator must submit the modified plan no later than 60 days after the Regional Administrator's request, or no later than 90 days if the unit is a surface impoundment or waste pile not previously required to prepare a contingent post-closure plan. Any modifications requested by the Regional Administrator will be approved, disapproved, or modified in accordance with the procedures in parts 124 and 270.
