
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart M - Land Treatment
###### ยง 264.271 Treatment program.

(a) An owner or operator subject to this subpart must establish a land treatment program that is designed to ensure that hazardous constituents placed in or on the treatment zone are degraded, transformed, or immobilized within the treatment zone. The Regional Administrator will specify in the facility permit the elements of the treatment program, including:

(1) The wastes that are capable of being treated at the unit based on a demonstration under ยง 264.272;

(2) Design measures and operating practices necessary to maximize the success of degradation, transformation, and immobilization processes in the treatment zone in accordance with ยง 264.273(a); and

(3) Unsaturated zone monitoring provisions meeting the requirements of ยง 264.278.

(b) The Regional Administrator will specify in the facility permit the hazardous constituents that must be degraded, transformed, or immobilized under this subpart. Hazardous constituents are constituents identified in appendix VIII of part 261 of this chapter that are reasonably expected to be in, or derived from, waste placed in or on the treatment zone.

(c) The Regional Administrator will specify the vertical and horizontal dimensions of the treatment zone in the facility permit. The treatment zone is the portion of the unsaturated zone below and including the land surface in which the owner or operator intends to maintain the conditions necessary for effective degradation, transformation, or immobilization of hazardous constituents. The maximum depth of the treatment zone must be:

(1) No more than 1.5 meters (5 feet) from the initial soil surface; and

(2) More than 1 meter (3 feet) above the seasonal high water table.
