
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart W - Drip Pads
###### ยง 264.570 Applicability.

(a) The requirements of this subpart apply to owners and operators of facilities that use new or existing drip pads to convey treated wood drippage, precipitation, and/or surface water run-off to an associated collection system. Existing drip pads are those constructed before December 6, 1990 and those for which the owner or operator has a design and has entered into binding financial or other agreements for construction prior to December 6, 1990. All other drip pads are new drip pads. The requirement at ยง 264.573(b)(3) to install a leak collection system applies only to those drip pads that are constructed after December 24, 1992 except for those constructed after December 24, 1992 for which the owner or operator has a design and has entered into binding financial or other agreements for construction prior to December 24, 1992.

(b) The owner or operator of any drip pad that is inside or under a structure that provides protection from precipitation so that neither run-off nor run-on is generated is not subject to regulation under ยง 264.573(e) or ยง 264.573(f), as appropriate.

(c) The requirements of this subpart are not applicable to the management of infrequent and incidental drippage in storage yards provided that:

(1) The owner or operator maintains and complies with a written contingency plan that describes how the owner or operator will respond immediately to the discharge of such infrequent and incidental drippage. At a minimum, the contingency plan must describe how the owner or operator will do the following:

(i) Clean up the drippage;

(ii) Document the cleanup of the drippage;

(iii) Retain documents regarding cleanup for three years; and

(iv) Manage the contaminated media in a manner consistent with Federal regulations.
