
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart S - Special Provisions for Cleanup
###### § 264.555 Disposal of CAMU-eligible wastes in permitted hazardous waste landfills.
####### 2

(iii) Treatment standards adjusted in accordance with § 264.552(e)(4)(v)(E)(), where treatment has been used and that treatment significantly reduces the toxicity or mobility of the principal hazardous constituents in the waste, minimizing the short-term and long-term threat posed by the waste, including the threat at the remediation site.

(3) The landfill receiving the CAMU-eligible waste must have a RCRA hazardous waste permit, meet the requirements for new landfills in Subpart N of this part, and be authorized to accept CAMU-eligible wastes; for the purposes of this requirement, "permit" does not include interim status.

(b) The person seeking approval shall provide sufficient information to enable the Regional Administrator with regulatory oversight at the location where the cleanup is taking place to approve placement of CAMU-eligible waste in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. Information required by § 264.552(d)(1) through (3) for CAMU applications must be provided, unless not reasonably available.

(c) The Regional Administrator with regulatory oversight at the location where the cleanup is taking place shall provide public notice and a reasonable opportunity for public comment before approving CAMU eligible waste for placement in an off-site permitted hazardous waste landfill, consistent with the requirements for CAMU approval at § 264.552(h). The approval must be specific to a single remediation.

(d) Applicable hazardous waste management requirements in this part, including recordkeeping requirements to demonstrate compliance with treatment standards approved under this section, for CAMU-eligible waste must be incorporated into the receiving facility permit through permit issuance or a permit modification, providing notice and an opportunity for comment and a hearing. Notwithstanding 40 CFR 270.4(a), a landfill may not receive hazardous CAMU-eligible waste under this section unless its permit specifically authorizes receipt of such waste.

(e) For each remediation, CAMU-eligible waste may not be placed in an off-site landfill authorized to receive CAMU-eligible waste in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section until the following additional conditions have been met:

(1) The landfill owner/operator notifies the Regional Administrator responsible for oversight of the landfill and persons on the facility mailing list, maintained in accordance with 40 CFR 124.10(c)(1)(ix), of his or her intent to receive CAMU-eligible waste in accordance with this section; the notice must identify the source of the remediation waste, the principal hazardous constituents in the waste, and treatment requirements.

(2) Persons on the facility mailing list may provide comments, including objections to the receipt of the CAMU-eligible waste, to the Regional Administrator within 15 days of notification.

(3) The Regional Administrator may object to the placement of the CAMU-eligible waste in the landfill within 30 days of notification; the Regional Administrator may extend the review period an additional 30 days because of public concerns or insufficient information.

(4) CAMU-eligible wastes may not be placed in the landfill until the Regional Administrator has notified the facility owner/operator that he or she does not object to its placement.

(5) If the Regional Administrator objects to the placement or does not notify the facility owner/operator that he or she has chosen not to object, the facility may not receive the waste, notwithstanding 40 CFR 270.4(a), until the objection has been resolved, or the owner/operator obtains a permit modification in accordance with the procedures of § 270.42 specifically authorizing receipt of the waste.

(6) As part of the permit issuance or permit modification process of paragraph (d) of this section, the Regional Administrator may modify, reduce, or eliminate the notification requirements of this paragraph as they apply to specific categories of CAMU-eligible waste, based on minimal risk.

(f) Generators of CAMU-eligible wastes sent off-site to a hazardous waste landfill under this section must comply with the requirements of 40 CFR 268.7(a)(4); off-site facilities treating CAMU-eligible wastes to comply with this section must comply with the requirements of § 268.7(b)(4), except that the certification must be with respect to the treatment requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(g) For the purposes of this section only, the "design of the CAMU" in 40 CFR 264.552(e)(4)(v)(E) means design of the permitted Subtitle C landfill.
