
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart BB - Air Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks
###### § 264.1065 Reporting requirements.

(a) A semiannual report shall be submitted by owners and operators subject to the requirements of this subpart to the Regional Administrator by dates specified by the Regional Administrator. The report shall include the following information:

(1) The Environmental Protection Agency identification number, name, and address of the facility.

(2) For each month during the semiannual reporting period:

(i) The equipment identification number of each valve for which a leak was not repaired as required in § 264.1057(d).

(ii) The equipment identification number of each pump for which a leak was not repaired as required in § 264.1052 (c) and (d)(6).

(iii) The equipment identification number of each compressor for which a leak was not repaired as required in § 264.1053(g).

(3) Dates of hazardous waste management unit shutdowns that occurred within the semiannual reporting period.

(4) For each month during the semiannual reporting period, dates when the control device installed as required by § 264.1052, 264.1053, 264.1054, or 264.1055 exceeded or operated outside of the design specifications as defined in § 264.1064(e) and as indicated by the control device monitoring required by § 264.1060 and was not corrected within 24 hours, the duration and cause of each exceedance, and any corrective measures taken.

(b) If, during the semiannual reporting period, leaks from valves, pumps, and compressors are repaired as required in §§ 264.1057 (d), 264.1052 (c) and (d)(6), and 264.1053 (g), respectively, and the control device does not exceed or operate outside of the design specifications as defined in § 264.1064(e) for more than 24 hours, a report to the Regional Administrator is not required.
