
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks, Surface Impoundments, and Containers
###### ยง 264.1080 Applicability.
####### 3

() West Virginia Division of Environmental Protection, Office of Air Quality, 1558 Washington Street East, Charleston, WV 25311-2599, Attention John H. Johnston.

(3) Effective period and revocation of temporary deferral.

(i) The temporary deferral contained in this section is effective from April 1, 1998, and shall remain effective until the MON Compliance Date. The temporary deferral contained in this section may be revoked prior to the MON Compliance Date, as described in paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section.

(ii) On the MON Compliance Date, the temporary deferral contained in this section will no longer be effective.

(iii) The Sistersville Plant shall come into compliance with those requirements deferred by this section no later than the MON Compliance Date. No later than 18 months prior to the MON Compliance Date, the Sistersville Plant shall submit to EPA an implementation schedule that meets the requirements of paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section.

(iv) The temporary deferral contained in this section may be revoked for cause, as determined by EPA, prior to the MON Compliance Date. The Sistersville Plant may request EPA to revoke the temporary deferral contained in this section at any time. The revocation shall be effective on the date that the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation from EPA.

(v) Nothing in this section shall affect the provisions of the MON, as applicable to the Sistersville Plant.

(vi) Nothing in paragraph (f) or (g) of this section shall affect any regulatory requirements not referenced in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) or (f)(1)(iv) of this section, as applicable to the Sistersville Plant.

(4) The Sistersville Plant shall conduct the initial performance test required by paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section using the procedures in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. The organic concentration and percent reduction shall be measured as TOC minus methane and ethane, according to the procedures specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(i) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites.
