
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks, Surface Impoundments, and Containers
###### § 264.1080 Applicability.
####### 1

(iv) To determine compliance with the 98 percent reduction requirement of paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A)() of this section, the Sistersville Plant shall use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A may be used. The following procedures shall be used to calculate percent reduction efficiency:

(A) The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time such as 15 minute intervals during the run.

(B) The mass rate of TOC minus methane and ethane (E, E) shall be computed. All organic compounds (minus methane and ethane) measured by Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A are summed using the following equations:

(C) The percent reduction in TOC (minus methane and ethane) shall be calculated as follows:

(5) At the time of the initial performance test of the process vent thermal incinerator required under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, the Sistersville Plant shall inspect each closed vent system according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (f)(5)(vi) of this section.

(i) The initial inspections shall be conducted in accordance with Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(ii) (A) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(5)(ii)(B) of this section, the detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be for the average composition of the process fluid not each individual volatile organic compound in the stream. For process streams that contain nitrogen, air, or other inerts which are not organic hazardous air pollutants or volatile organic compounds, the average stream response factor shall be calculated on an inert-free basis.

(B) If no instrument is available at the plant site that will meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (f)(5)(ii)(A) of this section, the instrument readings may be adjusted by multiplying by the average response factor of the process fluid, calculated on an inert-free basis as described in paragraph (f)(5)(ii)(A) of this section.

(iii) The detection instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(iv) Calibration gases shall be as follows:

(A) Zero air (less than 10 parts per million hydrocarbon in air); and

(B) Mixtures of methane in air at a concentration less than 10,000 parts per million. A calibration gas other than methane in air may be used if the instrument does not respond to methane or if the instrument does not meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (f)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. In such cases, the calibration gas may be a mixture of one or more of the compounds to be measured in air.

(v) The Sistersville Plant may elect to adjust or not adjust instrument readings for background. If the Sistersville Plant elects to not adjust readings for background, all such instrument readings shall be compared directly to the applicable leak definition to determine whether there is a leak. If the Sistersville Plant elects to adjust instrument readings for background, the Sistersville Plant shall measure background concentration using the procedures in 40 CFR 63.180(b) and (c). The Sistersville Plant shall subtract background reading from the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument.

(vi) The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared with 500 parts per million for determining compliance.

(6) Definitions of terms as used in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.

(i) Closed vent system is defined as a system that is not open to the atmosphere and that is composed of piping, connections and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from the capper unit process vent to the thermal incinerator.

(ii) No detectable emissions means an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million by volume above background as determined by Method 21 in 40 CFR part 60.

(iii) Reuse includes the substitution of collected methanol (without reclamation subsequent to its collection) for virgin methanol as an ingredient (including uses as an intermediate) or as an effective substitute for a commercial product.

(iv) Recovery includes the substitution of collected methanol for virgin methanol as an ingredient (including uses as an intermediate) or as an effective substitute for a commercial product following reclamation of the methanol subsequent to its collection.

(v) Thermal recovery/treatment includes the use of collected methanol in fuels blending or as a feed to any combustion device to the extent permitted by Federal and state law.

(vi) Bio-treatment includes the treatment of the collected methanol through introduction into a biological treatment system, including the treatment of the collected methanol as a waste stream in an on-site or off-site wastewater treatment system. Introduction of the collected methanol to the on-site wastewater treatment system will be limited to points downstream of the surface impoundments, and will be consistent with the requirements of federal and state law.

(vii) Start-up shall have the meaning set forth at 40 CFR 63.2.

(viii) Flow indicator means a device which indicates whether gas flow is present in the vent stream, and, if required by the permit for the thermal incinerator, which measures the gas flow in that stream.

(ix) Continuous Recorder means a data recording device that records an instantaneous data value at least once every fifteen minutes.

(x) MON means the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for the source category Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Production and Processes ("MON"), promulgated under the authority of Section 112 of the Clean Air Act.

(xi) MON Compliance Date means the date 3 years after the effective date of the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for the source category Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Production and Processes ("MON").

(7) OSi Specialties, Incorporated, a subsidiary of Witco Corporation ("OSi"), may seek to transfer its rights and obligations under this section to a future owner of the Sistersville Plant in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(7)(i) through (f)(7)(iii) of this section.

(i) OSi will provide to EPA a written notice of any proposed transfer at least forty-five days prior to the effective date of any such transfer. The written notice will identify the proposed transferee.

(ii) The proposed transferee will provide to EPA a written request to assume the rights and obligations under this section at least forty-five days prior to the effective date of any such transfer. The written request will describe the transferee's financial and technical capability to assume the obligations under this section, and will include a statement of the transferee's intention to fully comply with the terms of this section and to sign the Final Project Agreement for this XL Project as an additional party.

(iii) Within thirty days of receipt of both the written notice and written request described in paragraphs (f)(7)(i) and (f)(7)(ii) of this section, EPA will determine, based on all relevant information, whether to approve a transfer of rights and obligations under this section from OSi to a different owner.

(8) The constituents to be identified by the Sistersville Plant pursuant to paragraphs (f)(2)(vi)(C)(2)(ii) and (f)(2)(viii)(C)(5)(iii) of this section are: 1 Naphthalenamine; 1,2,4 Trichlorobenzene; 1,1 Dichloroethylene; 1,1,1 Trichloroethane; 1,1,1,2 Tetrachloroethane; 1,1,2 Trichloro 1,2,2 Triflouroethane; 1,1,2 Trichloroethane; 1,1,2,2 Tetrachloroethane; 1,2 Dichlorobenzene; 1,2 Dichloroethane; 1,2 Dichloropropane; 1,2 Dichloropropanone; 1,2 Transdichloroethene; 1,2, Trans-Dichloroethene; 1,2,4,5 Tetrachlorobenzine; 1,3 Dichlorobenzene; 1,4 Dichloro 2 butene; 1,4 Dioxane; 2 Chlorophenol; 2 Cyclohexyl 4,6 dinitrophenol; 2 Methyl Pyridine; 2 Nitropropane; 2, 4-Di-nitrotoluene; Acetone; Acetonitrile; Acrylonitrile; Allyl Alcohol; Aniline; Antimony; Arsenic; Barium; Benzene; Benzotrichloride; Benzyl Chloride; Beryllium; Bis (2 ethyl Hexyl) Phthalate; Butyl Alcohol, n; Butyl Benzyl Phthalate; Cadmium; Carbon Disulfide; Carbon Tetrachloride; Chlorobenzene; Chloroform; Chloromethane; Chromium; Chrysene; Copper; Creosol; Creosol, m-; Creosol, o; Creosol, p; Cyanide; Cyclohexanone; Di-n-octyl phthalate; Dichlorodiflouromethane; Diethyl Phthalate; Dihydrosafrole; Dimethylamine; Ethyl Acetate; Ethyl benzene; Ethyl Ether; Ethylene Glycol Ethyl Ether; Ethylene Oxide; Formaldehyde; Isobutyl Alcohol; Lead; Mercury; Methanol; Methoxychlor; Methyl Chloride; Methyl Chloroformate; Methyl Ethyl Ketone; Methyl Ethyl Ketone Peroxide; Methyl Isobutyl Ketone; Methyl Methacrylate; Methylene Bromide; Methylene Chloride; Naphthalene; Nickel; Nitrobenzene; Nitroglycerine; p-Toluidine; Phenol; Phthalic Anhydride; Polychlorinated Biphenyls; Propargyl Alcohol; Pyridine; Safrole; Selenium; Silver; Styrene; Tetrachloroethylene; Tetrahydrofuran; Thallium; Toluene; Toluene 2,4 Diisocyanate; Trichloroethylene; Trichloroflouromethane; Vanadium; Vinyl Chloride; Warfarin; Xylene; Zinc.

(g) This section applies only to the facility commonly referred to as the OSi Specialties Plant, located on State Route 2, Sistersville, West Virginia ("Sistersville Plant").

(1)(i) No later than 18 months from the date the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation of the temporary deferral for the Sistersville Plant under paragraph (f) of this section, the Sistersville Plant shall, in accordance with the implementation schedule submitted to EPA under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, either come into compliance with all requirements of this subpart which had been deferred by paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, or complete a facility or process modification such that the requirements of § 264.1085 are no longer applicable to the two hazardous waste surface impoundments. In any event, the Sistersville Plant must complete the requirements of the previous sentence no later than the MON Compliance Date; if the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation of the temporary deferral after the date 18 months prior to the MON Compliance Date, the date by which the Sistersville Plant must complete the requirements of the previous sentence will be the MON Compliance Date, which would be less than 18 months from the date of notification of revocation.

(ii) Within 30 days from the date the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation under paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section, the Sistersville Plant shall enter and maintain in the facility operating record an implementation schedule. The implementation schedule shall demonstrate that within 18 months from the date the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation under paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section (but no later than the MON Compliance Date), the Sistersville Plant shall either come into compliance with the regulatory requirements that had been deferred by paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, or complete a facility or process modification such that the requirements of § 264.1085 are no longer applicable to the two hazardous waste surface impoundments. Within 30 days from the date the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation under paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section, the Sistersville Plant shall submit a copy of the implementation schedule to the EPA and WVDEP Project XL contacts identified in paragraph (f)(2)(viii)(H) of this section. The implementation schedule shall reflect the Sistersville Plant's effort to come into compliance as soon as practicable (but no later than 18 months after the date the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation, or the MON Compliance Date, whichever is sooner) with all regulatory requirements that had been deferred under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, or to complete a facility or process modification as soon as practicable (but no later than 18 months after the date the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation, or the MON Compliance Date, whichever is sooner) such that the requirements of § 264.1085 are no longer applicable to the two hazardous waste surface impoundments.

(iii) The implementation schedule shall include the information described in either paragraph (g)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) Specific calendar dates for: Award of contracts or issuance of purchase orders for the control equipment required by those regulatory requirements that had been deferred by paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section; initiation of on-site installation of such control equipment; completion of the control equipment installation; performance of any testing to demonstrate that the installed control equipment meets the applicable standards of this subpart; initiation of operation of the control equipment; and compliance with all regulatory requirements that had been deferred by paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section.

(B) Specific calendar dates for the purchase, installation, performance testing and initiation of operation of equipment to accomplish a facility or process modification such that the requirements of § 264.1085 are no longer applicable to the two hazardous waste surface impoundments.

(2) Nothing in paragraphs (f) or (g) of this section shall affect any regulatory requirements not referenced in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable to the Sistersville Plant.

(3) In the event that a notification of revocation is issued pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section, the requirements referenced in paragraphs (f)(1)(iii) and (f)(1)(iv) of this section are temporarily deferred, with respect to the two hazardous waste surface impoundments, provided that the Sistersville Plant is in compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2)(ii), (f)(2)(iii), (f)(2)(iv), (f)(2)(v), (f)(2)(vi) and (g) of this section, except as provided under paragraph (g)(4) of this section. The temporary deferral of the previous sentence shall be effective beginning on the date the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation, and subject to paragraph (g)(5) of this section, shall continue to be effective for a maximum period of 18 months from that date, provided that the Sistersville Plant is in compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2)(ii), (f)(2)(iii), (f)(2)(iv), (f)(2)(v), (f)(2)(vi) and (g) of this section at all times during that 18-month period.

(4) In the event that a notification of revocation is issued pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section as a result of the permanent removal of the capper unit from methyl capped polyether production service, the requirements referenced in paragraphs (f)(1)(iii) and (f)(1)(iv) of this section are temporarily deferred, with respect to the two hazardous waste surface impoundments, provided that the Sistersville Plant is in compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2)(vi), and (g) of this section. The temporary deferral of the previous sentence shall be effective beginning on the date the Sistersville Plant receives written notification of revocation, and subject to paragraph (g)(5) of this section, shall continue to be effective for a maximum period of 18 months from that date, provided that the Sistersville Plant is in compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2)(vi) and (g) of this section at all times during that 18-month period.

(5) In no event shall the temporary deferral provided under paragraph (g)(3) or (g)(4) of this section be effective after the MON Compliance Date.
