
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks, Surface Impoundments, and Containers
###### § 264.1083 Waste determination procedures.

(a) Waste determination procedure to determine average volatile organic (VO) concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination.

(1) An owner or operator shall determine the average VO concentration at the point of waste origination for each hazardous waste placed in a waste management unit exempted under the provisions of § 264.1082(c)(1) of this subpart from using air emission controls in accordance with standards specified in § 264.1084 through § 264.1087 of this subpart, as applicable to the waste management unit.

(i) An initial determination of the average VO concentration of the waste stream shall be made before the first time any portion of the material in the hazardous waste stream is placed in a waste management unit exempted under the provisions of § 264.1082(c)(1) of this subpart from using air emission controls, and thereafter an initial determination of the average VO concentration of the waste stream shall be made for each averaging period that a hazardous waste is managed in the unit; and

(ii) Perform a new waste determination whenever changes to the source generating the waste stream are reasonably likely to cause the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste to increase to a level that is equal to or greater than the applicable VO concentration limits specified in § 264.1082 of this subpart.

(2) For a waste determination that is required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination shall be determined in accordance with the procedures specified in 40 CFR 265.1084(a)(2) through (a)(4).

(b) Waste determination procedures for treated hazardous waste.

(1) An owner or operator shall perform the applicable waste determinations for each treated hazardous waste placed in waste management units exempted under the provisions of § 264.1082(c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this subpart from using air emission controls in accordance with standards specified in §§ 264.1084 through 264.1087 of this subpart, as applicable to the waste management unit.

(i) An initial determination of the average VO concentration of the waste stream shall be made before the first time any portion of the material in the treated waste stream is placed in the exempt waste management unit, and thereafter update the information used for the waste determination at least once every 12 months following the date of the initial waste determination; and

(ii) Perform a new waste determination whenever changes to the process generating or treating the waste stream are reasonably likely to cause the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste to increase to a level such that the applicable treatment conditions specified in § 264.1082 (c)(2) of this subpart are not achieved.

(2) The waste determination for a treated hazardous waste shall be performed in accordance with the procedures specified in 40 CFR 265.1084 (b)(2) through (b)(9), as applicable to the treated hazardous waste.

(c) Procedure to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of a hazardous waste in a tank.

(1) An owner or operator shall determine the maximum organic vapor pressure for each hazardous waste placed in a tank using Tank Level 1 controls in accordance with standards specified in § 264.1084(c) of this subpart.

(2) The maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous waste may be determined in accordance with the procedures specified in 40 CFR 265.1084 (c)(2) through (c)(4).

(d) The procedure for determining no detectable organic emissions for the purpose of complying with this subpart shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures specified in 40 CFR 265.1084(d).
