
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks, Surface Impoundments, and Containers
###### § 264.1090 Reporting requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator managing hazardous waste in a tank, surface impoundment, or container exempted from using air emission controls under the provisions of § 264.1082(c) of this subpart shall report to the Regional Administrator each occurrence when hazardous waste is placed in the waste management unit in noncompliance with the conditions specified in § 264.1082 (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this subpart, as applicable. Examples of such occurrences include placing in the waste management unit a hazardous waste having an average VO concentration equal to or greater than 500 ppmw at the point of waste origination; or placing in the waste management unit a treated hazardous waste of which the organic content has been reduced by an organic destruction or removal process that fails to achieve the applicable conditions specified in § 264.1082 (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this subpart. The owner or operator shall submit a written report within 15 calendar days of the time that the owner or operator becomes aware of the occurrence. The written report shall contain the EPA identification number, facility name and address, a description of the noncompliance event and the cause, the dates of the noncompliance, and the actions taken to correct the noncompliance and prevent recurrence of the noncompliance. The report shall be signed and dated by an authorized representative of the owner or operator.

(b) Each owner or operator using air emission controls on a tank in accordance with the requirements § 264.1084(c) of this subpart shall report to the Regional Administrator each occurrence when hazardous waste is managed in the tank in noncompliance with the conditions specified in § 264.1084(b) of this subpart. The owner or operator shall submit a written report within 15 calendar days of the time that the owner or operator becomes aware of the occurrence. The written report shall contain the EPA identification number, facility name and address, a description of the noncompliance event and the cause, the dates of the noncompliance, and the actions taken to correct the noncompliance and prevent recurrence of the noncompliance. The report shall be signed and dated by an authorized representative of the owner or operator.

(c) Each owner or operator using a control device in accordance with the requirements of § 264.1087 of this subpart shall submit a semiannual written report to the Regional Administrator excepted as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section. The report shall describe each occurrence during the previous 6-month period when either: (1) A control device is operated continuously for 24 hours or longer in noncompliance with the applicable operating values defined in § 264.1035(c)(4); or (2) A flare is operated with visible emissions for 5 minutes or longer in a two-hour period, as defined in § 264.1033(d). The written report shall include the EPA identification number, facility name and address, and an explanation why the control device could not be returned to compliance within 24 hours, and actions taken to correct the noncompliance. The report shall be signed and dated by an authorized representative of the owner or operator.

(d) A report to the Regional Administrator in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section is not required for a 6-month period during which all control devices subject to this subpart are operated by the owner or operator such that:

(1) During no period of 24 hours or longer did a control device operate continuously in noncompliance with the applicable operating values defined in § 264.1035(c)(4); and

(2) No flare was operated with visible emissions for 5 minutes or longer in a two-hour period, as defined in § 264.1033(d).
