
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 264 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Appendix I to Part 264 - Recordkeeping Instructions
###### portions

The recordkeeping provisions of ยง 264.73 specify that an owner or operator must keep a written operating record at his facility. This appendix provides additional instructions for keepingof the operating record. See ยง 264.73(b) for additional recordkeeping requirements.

The following information must be recorded, as it becomes available, and maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility in the following manner:

Records of each hazardous waste received, treated, stored, or disposed of at the facility which include the following:

(1) A description by its common name and the EPA Hazardous Waste Number(s) from part 261 of this chapter which apply to the waste. The waste description also must include the waste's physical form, i.e., liquid, sludge, solid, or contained gas. If the waste is not listed in part 261, subpart D, of this chapter, the description also must include the process that produced it (for example, solid filter cake from production of ----, EPA Hazardous Waste Number W051).

Each hazardous waste listed in part 261, subpart D, of this chapter, and each hazardous waste characteristic defined in part 261, subpart C, of this chapter, has a four-digit EPA Hazardous Waste Number assigned to it. This number must be used for recordkeeping and reporting purposes. Where a hazardous waste contains more than one listed hazardous waste, or where more than one hazardous waste characteristic applies to the waste, the waste description must include all applicable EPA Hazardous Waste Numbers.

(2) The estimated or manifest-reported weight, or volume and density, where applicable, in one of the units of measure specified in Table 1;

(3) The method(s) (by handling code(s) as specified in Table 2) and date(s) of treatment, storage, or disposal.

Enter the handling code(s) listed below that most closely represents the technique(s) used at the facility to treat, store or dispose of each quantity of hazardous waste received.
