
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 265 - INTERIM STATUS STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart E - Manifest System, Recordkeeping, and Reporting
###### § 265.73 Operating record.

(a) The owner or operator must keep a written operating record at his facility.

(b) The following information must be recorded, as it becomes available, and maintained in the operating record for three years unless noted below:

(1) A description and the quantity of each hazardous waste received, and the method(s) and date(s) of its treatment, storage, or disposal at the facility as required by Appendix I to part 265. This information must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility;

(2) The location of each hazardous waste within the facility and the quantity at each location. For disposal facilities, the location and quantity of each hazardous waste must be recorded on a map or diagram of each cell or disposal area. For all facilities, this information must include cross-references to manifest document numbers if the waste was accompanied by a manifest. This information must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility;

(3) Records and results of waste analysis, waste determinations, and trial tests performed as specified in §§ 265.13, 265.200, 265.225, 265.252, 265.273, 265.314, 265.341, 265.375, 265.402, 265.1034, 265.1063, 265.1084, 268.4(a), and 268.7 of this chapter.

(4) Summary reports and details of all incidents that require implementing the contingency plan as specified in § 265.56(j);

(5) Records and results of inspections as required by § 265.15(d) (except these data need be kept only three years);

(6) Monitoring, testing or analytical data, and corrective action where required by subpart F of this part and by §§ 265.19, 265.94, 265.191, 265.193, 265.195, 265.224, 265.226, 265.255, 265.260, 265.276, 265.278, 265.280(d)(1), 265.302, 265.304, 265.347, 265.377, 265.1034(c) through 265.1034(f), 265.1035, 265.1063(d) through 265. 265.1063(i), 265.1064, and 265.1083 through 265.1090. Maintain in the operating record for three years, except for records and results pertaining to ground-water monitoring and cleanup, and response action plans for surface impoundments, waste piles, and landfills, which must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility.

(7) All closure cost estimates under § 265.142 and, for disposal facilities, all post-closure cost estimates under § 265.144 must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility.

(8) Records of the quantities (and date of placement) for each shipment of hazardous waste placed in land disposal units under an extension to the effective date of any land disposal restriction granted pursuant to § 268.5 of this chapter, monitoring data required pursuant to a petition under § 268.6 of this chapter, or a certification under § 268.8 of this chapter, and the applicable notice required by a generator under § 268.7(a) of this chapter. All of this information must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility.

(9) For an off-site treatment facility, a copy of the notice, and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator under § 268.7 or § 268.8;

(10) For an on-site treatment facility, the information contained in the notice (except the manifest number), and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator under § 268.7 or § 268.8;

(11) For an off-site land disposal facility, a copy of the notice, and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator of a treatment facility under § 268.7 or § 268.8;

(12) For an on-site land disposal facility, the information contained in the notice (except the manifest number), and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator of a treatment facility under § 268.7 or § 268.8.

(13) For an off-site storage facility, a copy of the notice, and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator under § 268.7 or § 268.8; and

(14) For an on-site storage facility, the information contained in the notice (except the manifest number), and the certification and demonstration if applicable, required by the generator or the owner or operator of a treatment facility under § 268.7 or § 268.8.

(15) Monitoring, testing or analytical data, and corrective action where required by §§ 265.90, 265.93(d)(2), and 265.93(d)(5), and the certification as required by § 265.196(f) must be maintained in the operating record until closure of the facility.
