
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 265 - INTERIM STATUS STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart P - Thermal Treatment
###### § 265.383 Interim status thermal treatment devices burning particular hazardous waste.

(a) Owners or operators of thermal treatment devices subject to this subpart may burn EPA Hazardous Wastes FO20, FO21, FO22, FO23, FO26, or FO27 if they receive a certification from the Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response that they can meet the performance standards of subpart O of part 264 when they burn these wastes.

(b) The following standards and procedures will be used in determining whether to certify a thermal treatment unit:

(1) The owner or operator will submit an application to the Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response containing the applicable information in §§ 270.19 and 270.62 demonstrating that the thermal treatment unit can meet the performance standard in subpart O of part 264 when they burn these wastes.

(2) The Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response will issue a tentative decision as to whether the thermal treatment unit can meet the performance standards in subpart O of part 264. Notification of this tentative decision will be provided by newspaper advertisement and radio broadcast in the jurisdiction where the thermal treatment device is located. The Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response will accept comment on the tentative decision for 60 days. The Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response also may hold a public hearing upon request or at his discretion.

(3) After the close of the public comment period, the Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response will issue a decision whether or not to certify the thermal treatment unit.
