
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 265 - INTERIM STATUS STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart BB - Air Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks
###### § 265.1064 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a)(1) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this section.

(2) An owner or operator of more than one hazardous waste management unit subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for these hazardous waste management units in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies each record by each hazardous waste management unit.

(b) Owners and operators must record the following information in the facility operating record:

(1) For each piece of equipment to which subpart BB of part 265 applies:

(i) Equipment identification number and hazardous waste management unit identification.

(ii) Approximate locations within the facility (e.g., identify the hazardous waste management unit on a facility plot plan).

(iii) Type of equipment (e.g., a pump or pipeline valve).

(iv) Percent-by-weight total organics in the hazardous waste stream at the equipment.

(v) Hazardous waste state at the equipment (e.g., gas/vapor or liquid).

(vi) Method of compliance with the standard (e.g., "monthly leak detection and repair" or "equipped with dual mechanical seals").

(2) For facilities that comply with the provisions of § 265.1033(a)(2), an implementation schedule as specified in § 265.1033(a)(2).

(3) Where an owner or operator chooses to use test data to demonstrate the organic removal efficiency or total organic compound concentration achieved by the control device, a performance test plan as specified in § 265.1035(b)(3).

(4) Documentation of compliance with § 265.1060, including the detailed design documentation or performance test results specified in § 265.1035(b)(4).

(c) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 265.1052, 265.1053, 265.1057, and 265.1058, the following requirements apply:

(1) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, the date evidence of a potential leak was found in accordance with § 265.1058(a), and the date the leak was detected, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.

(2) The identification on equipment, except on a valve, may be removed after it has been repaired.

(3) The identification on a valve may be removed after it has been monitored for 2 successive months as specified in § 265.1057(c) and no leak has been detected during those 2 months.

(d) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 265.1052, 265.1053, 265.1057, and 265.1058, the following information shall be recorded in an inspection log and shall be kept in the facility operating record:

(1) The instrument and operator identification numbers and the equipment identification number.

(2) The date evidence of a potential leak was found in accordance with § 265.1058(a).

(3) The date the leak was detected and the dates of each attempt to repair the leak.

(4) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.

(5) "Above 10,000" if the maximum instrument reading measured by the methods specified in § 265.1063(b) after each repair attempt is equal to or greater than 10,000 ppm.

(6) "Repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.

(7) Documentation supporting the delay of repair of a valve in compliance with § 265.1059(c).

(8) The signature of the owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a hazardous waste management unit shutdown.

(9) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days.

(10) The date of successful repair of the leak.

(e) Design documentation and monitoring, operating, and inspection information for each closed-vent system and control device required to comply with the provisions of § 265.1060 shall be recorded and kept up-to-date in the facility operating record as specified in § 265.1035(c). Design documentation is specified in § 265.1035 (c)(1) and (c)(2) and monitoring, operating, and inspection information in § 265.1035 (c)(3)-(c)(8).

(f) For a control device other than a thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, flare, boiler, process heater, condenser, or carbon adsorption system, monitoring and inspection information indicating proper operation and maintenance of the control device must be recorded in the facility operating record.

(g) The following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in §§ 265.1052 through 265.1060 shall be recorded in a log that is kept in the facility operating record:

(1) A list of identification numbers for equipment (except welded fittings) subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(2)(i) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator elects to designate for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, under the provisions of §§ 265.1052(e), 265.1053(i), and 265.1057(f).

(ii) The designation of this equipment as subject to the requirements of §§ 265.1052(e), 265.1053(i), or 265.1057(f) shall be signed by the owner or operator.

(3) A list of equipment identification numbers for pressure relief devices required to comply with § 265.1054(a).

(4)(i) The dates of each compliance test required in §§ 265.1052(e), 265.1053(i), 265.1054, and 265.1057(f).

(ii) The background level measured during each compliance test.

(iii) The maximum instrument reading measured at the equipment during each compliance test.

(5) A list of identification numbers for equipment in vacuum service.

(6) Identification, either by list or location (area or group) of equipment that contains or contacts hazardous waste with an organic concentration of at least 10 percent by weight for less than 300 hours per calendar year.

(h) The following information pertaining to all valves subject to the requirements of § 265.1057 (g) and (h) shall be recorded in a log that is kept in the facility operating record:

(1) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as unsafe to monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is unsafe to monitor, and the plan for monitoring each valve.

(2) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as difficult to monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is difficult to monitor, and the planned schedule for monitoring each valve.

(i) The following information shall be recorded in the facility operating record for valves complying with § 265.1062:

(1) A schedule of monitoring.

(2) The percent of valves found leaking during each monitoring period.

(j) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in the facility operating record:

(1) Criteria required in §§ 265.1052 (d)(5)(ii) and 265.1053(e)(2) and an explanation of the criteria.

(2) Any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.

(k) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in the facility operating record for use in determining exemptions as provided in the applicability section of this subpart and other specific subparts:

(1) An analysis determining the design capacity of the hazardous waste management unit.

(2) A statement listing the hazardous waste influent to and effluent from each hazardous waste management unit subject to the requirements in §§ 265.1052 through 265.1060 and an analysis determining whether these hazardous wastes are heavy liquids.

(3) An up-to-date analysis and the supporting information and data used to determine whether or not equipment is subject to the requirements in §§ 265.1052 through 265.1060. The record shall include supporting documentation as required by § 265.1063(d)(3) when application of the knowledge of the nature of the hazardous waste stream or the process by which it was produced is used. If the owner or operator takes any action (e.g., changing the process that produced the waste) that could result in an increase in the total organic content of the waste contained in or contacted by equipment determined not to be subject to the requirements in §§ 265.1052 through 265.1060, then a new determination is required.

(l) Records of the equipment leak information required by paragraph (d) of this section and the operating information required by paragraph (e) of this section need be kept only 3 years.

(m) The owner or operator of any facility with equipment that is subject to this subpart and to leak detection, monitoring, and repair requirements under regulations at 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63 may elect to determine compliance with this subpart either by documentation pursuant to § 265.1064 of this subpart, or by documentation of compliance with the regulations at 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63 pursuant to the relevant provisions of the regulations at 40 part 60, part 61, or part 63. The documentation of compliance under regulation at 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63 shall be kept with or made readily available with the facility operating record.
