
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 265 - INTERIM STATUS STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks, Surface Impoundments, and Containers
###### § 265.1084 Waste determination procedures.
####### 2

() If any other analytical method is used, one-half the sum of the limits of detection established for each organic constituent in the waste that has a Henry's law constant values at least 0.1 mole-fraction-in-the-gas-phase/mole-fraction-in-the-liquid-phase (0.1 Y/X) [which can also be expressed as 1.8 x 10atmospheres/gram-mole/m] at 25 degrees Celsius.

(v) Provided that the test method is appropriate for the waste as required under paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, the EPA will determine compliance based on the test method used by the owner or operator as recorded pursuant to § 265.1090(f)(1) of this subpart.

(4) Use of owner or operator knowledge to determine average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination.

(i) Documentation shall be prepared that presents the information used as the basis for the owner's or operator's knowledge of the hazardous waste stream's average VO concentration. Examples of information that may be used as the basis for knowledge include: Material balances for the source or process generating the hazardous waste stream; constituent-specific chemical test data for the hazardous waste stream from previous testing that are still applicable to the current waste stream; previous test data for other locations managing the same type of waste stream; or other knowledge based on information included in manifests, shipping papers, or waste certification notices.

(ii) If test data are used as the basis for knowledge, then the owner or operator shall document the test method, sampling protocol, and the means by which sampling variability and analytical variability are accounted for in the determination of the average VO concentration. For example, an owner or operator may use organic concentration test data for the hazardous waste stream that are validated in accordance with Method 301 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A as the basis for knowledge of the waste.

(iii) An owner or operator using chemical constituent-specific concentration test data as the basis for knowledge of the hazardous waste may adjust the test data to the corresponding average VO concentration value which would have been obtained had the waste samples been analyzed using Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. To adjust these data, the measured concentration for each individual chemical constituent contained in the waste is multiplied by the appropriate constituent-specific adjustment factor (f).

(iv) In the event that the Regional Administrator and the owner or operator disagree on a determination of the average VO concentration for a hazardous waste stream using knowledge, then the results from a determination of average VO concentration using direct measurement as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be used to establish compliance with the applicable requirements of this subpart. The Regional Administrator may perform or request that the owner or operator perform this determination using direct measurement. The owner or operator may choose one or more appropriate methods to analyze each collected sample in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section.

(b) Waste determination procedures for treated hazardous waste.

(1) An owner or operator shall perform the applicable waste determination for each treated hazardous waste placed in a waste management unit exempted under the provisions of § 265.1083 (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this subpart from using air emission controls in accordance with standards specified in §§ 265.1085 through 265.1088 of this subpart, as applicable to the waste management unit.

(i) An initial determination of the average VO concentration of the waste stream shall be made before the first time any portion of the material in the treated waste stream is placed in a waste management unit exempted under the provisions of § 265.1083(c)(2), § 265.1083(c)(3), or § 265.1083(c)(4) of this subpart from using air emission controls, and thereafter update the information used for the waste determination at least once every 12 months following the date of the initial waste determination; and

(ii) Perform a new waste determination whenever changes to the process generating or treating the waste stream are reasonably likely to cause the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste to increase to a level such that the applicable treatment conditions specified in § 265.1083(c)(2), § 265.1083(c)(3), or § 265.1083(c)(4) of this subpart are not achieved.

(2) The owner or operator shall designate and record the specific provision in § 265.1083(c)(2) of this subpart under which the waste determination is being performed. The waste determination for the treated hazardous waste shall be performed using the applicable procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(9) of this section.

(3) Procedure to determine the average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment.

(i) Identification. The owner or operator shall identify and record the point of waste treatment for the hazardous waste.

(ii) Sampling. Samples of the hazardous waste stream shall be collected at the point of waste treatment in a manner such that volatilization of organics contained in the waste and in the subsequent sample is minimized and an adequately representative sample is collected and maintained for analysis by the selected method.

(A) The averaging period to be used for determining the average VO concentration for the hazardous waste stream on a mass-weighted average basis shall be designated and recorded. The averaging period can represent any time interval that the owner or operator determines is appropriate for the hazardous waste stream but shall not exceed 1 year.

(B) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected and analyzed for a hazardous waste determination. All of the samples for a given waste determination shall be collected within a one-hour period. The average of the four or more sample results constitutes a waste determination for the waste stream. One or more waste determinations may be required to represent the complete range of waste compositions and quantities that occur during the entire averaging period due to normal variations in the operating conditions for the process generating or treating the hazardous waste stream. Examples of such normal variations are seasonal variations in waste quantity or fluctuations in ambient temperature.

(C) All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the hazardous waste stream are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process, and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the facility operating records. An example of acceptable sample collection and handling procedures for a total volatile organic constituent concentration may be found in Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(D) Sufficient information, as specified in the "site sampling plan" required under paragraph (C) of (b)(3)(ii)this section, § 265.1084(b)(3)(ii), shall be prepared and recorded to document the waste quantity represented by the samples and, as applicable, the operating conditions for the process treating the hazardous waste represented by the samples.
