
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 265 - INTERIM STATUS STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks, Surface Impoundments, and Containers
###### § 265.1084 Waste determination procedures.
####### Calculations.

(iv)The average VO concentration (C) on a mass-weighted basis shall be calculated by using the results for all waste determinations conducted in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section and the following equation:

(v) Provided that the test method is appropriate for the waste as required under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, compliance shall be determined based on the test method used by the owner or operator as recorded pursuant to § 265.1090(f)(1) of this subpart.

(4) Procedure to determine the exit concentration limit (C) for a treated hazardous waste.

(i) The point of waste origination for each hazardous waste treated by the process at the same time shall be identified.

(ii) If a single hazardous waste stream is identified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, then the exit concentration limit (C) shall be 500 ppmw.

(iii) If more than one hazardous waste stream is identified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, then the average VO concentration of each hazardous waste stream at the point of waste origination shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The exit concentration limit (C) shall be calculated by using the results determined for each individual hazardous waste stream and the following equation:

(5) Procedure to determine the organic reduction efficiency (R) for a treated hazardous waste.

(i) The organic reduction efficiency (R) for a treatment process shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs.

(ii) All hazardous waste streams entering the treatment process and all hazardous waste streams exiting the treatment process shall be identified. The owner or operator shall prepare a sampling plan for measuring these streams that accurately reflects the retention time of the hazardous waste in the process.

(iii) For each run, information shall be determined for each hazardous waste stream identified in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section using the following procedures:

(A) The mass quantity of each hazardous waste stream entering the process (Q) and the mass quantity of each hazardous waste stream exiting the process (Q) shall be determined.

(B) The average VO concentration at the point of waste origination of each hazardous waste stream entering the process (C) during the run shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The average VO concentration at the point of waste treatment of each waste stream exiting the process (C) during the run shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(iv) The waste volatile organic mass flow entering the process (E) and the waste volatile organic mass flow exiting the process (E) shall be calculated by using the results determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section and the following equations:

(v) The organic reduction efficiency of the process shall be calculated by using the results determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section and the following equation:

(6) Procedure to determine the organic biodegradation efficiency (R) for a treated hazardous waste.

(i) The fraction of organics biodegraded (F) shall be determined using the procedure specified in 40 CFR part 63, appendix C of this chapter.

(ii) The Rshall be calculated by using the following equation:

(7) Procedure to determine the required organic mass removal rate (RMR) for a treated hazardous waste.

(i) All of the hazardous waste streams entering the treatment process shall be identified.

(ii) The average VO concentration of each hazardous waste stream at the point of waste origination shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(iii) For each individual hazardous waste stream that has an average VO concentration equal to or greater than 500 ppmw at the point of waste origination, the average volumetric flow rate and the density of the hazardous waste stream at the point of waste origination shall be determined.

(iv) The RMR shall be calculated by using the average VO concentration, average volumetric flow rate, and density determined for each individual hazardous waste stream, and the following equation:

(8) Procedure to determine the actual organic mass removal rate (MR) for a treated hazardous waste.

(i) The MR shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour.

(ii) The waste volatile organic mass flow entering the process (E) and the waste volatile organic mass flow exiting the process (E) shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section.

(iii) The MR shall be calculated by using the mass flow rate determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section and the following equation:

(9) Procedure to determine the actual organic mass biodegradation rate (MR) for a treated hazardous waste.

(i) The MRshall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour.

(ii) The waste organic mass flow entering the process (E) shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section.

(iii) The fraction of organic biodegraded (F) shall be determined using the procedure specified in 40 CFR part 63, appendix C of this chapter.

(iv) The MRshall be calculated by using the mass flow rates and fraction of organic biodegraded determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(9)(ii) and (b)(9)(iii) of this section, respectively, and the following equation:

(c) Procedure to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of a hazardous waste in a tank.

(1) An owner or operator shall determine the maximum organic vapor pressure for each hazardous waste placed in a tank using Tank Level 1 controls in accordance with the standards specified in § 265.1085(c) of this subpart.

(2) An owner or operator shall use either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section or knowledge of the waste as specified by paragraph (c)(4) of this section to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure which is representative of the hazardous waste composition stored or treated in the tank.

(3) Direct measurement to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of a hazardous waste.

(i) Sampling. A sufficient number of samples shall be collected to be representative of the waste contained in the tank. All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the hazardous waste are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the facility operating records. An example of acceptable sample collection and handling procedures may be found in Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(ii) Analysis. Any appropriate one of the following methods may be used to analyze the samples and compute the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous waste:

(A) Method 25E in 40 CFR part 60 appendix A;

(B) Methods described in American Petroleum Institute Publication 2517, Third Edition, February 1989, "Evaporative Loss from External Floating-Roof Tanks," (incorporated by reference-refer to § 260.11 of this chapter);

(C) Methods obtained from standard reference texts;

(D) ASTM Method 2879-92 (incorporated by reference-refer to § 260.11 of this chapter); and

(E) Any other method approved by the Regional Administrator.

(4) Use of knowledge to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous waste. Documentation shall be prepared and recorded that presents the information used as the basis for the owner's or operator's knowledge that the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous waste is less than the maximum vapor pressure limit listed in § 265.1085(b)(1)(i) of this subpart for the applicable tank design capacity category. An example of information that may be used is documentation that the hazardous waste is generated by a process for which at other locations it previously has been determined by direct measurement that the waste maximum organic vapor pressure is less than the maximum vapor pressure limit for the appropriate tank design capacity category.

(d) Procedure for determining no detectable organic emissions for the purpose of complying with this subpart:

(1) The test shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Each potential leak interface (i.e., a location where organic vapor leakage could occur) on the cover and associated closure devices shall be checked. Potential leak interfaces that are associated with covers and closure devices include, but are not limited to: The interface of the cover and its foundation mounting; the periphery of any opening on the cover and its associated closure device; and the sealing seat interface on a spring-loaded pressure relief valve.

(2) The test shall be performed when the unit contains a hazardous waste having an organic concentration representative of the range of concentrations for the hazardous waste expected to be managed in the unit. During the test, the cover and closure devices shall be secured in the closed position.

(3) The detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 shall be for the average composition of the organic constituents in the hazardous waste placed in the waste management unit, not for each individual organic constituent.

(4) The detection instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(5) Calibration gases shall be as follows:

(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppmv hydrocarbon in air), and

(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 ppmv methane or n-hexane.

(6) The background level shall be determined according to the procedures in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(7) Each potential leak interface shall be checked by traversing the instrument probe around the potential leak interface as close to the interface as possible, as described in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. In the case when the configuration of the cover or closure device prevents a complete traverse of the interface, all accessible portions of the interface shall be sampled. In the case when the configuration of the closure device prevents any sampling at the interface and the device is equipped with an enclosed extension or horn (e.g., some pressure relief devices), the instrument probe inlet shall be placed at approximately the center of the exhaust area to the atmosphere.

(8) The arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared with the value of 500 ppmv except when monitoring a seal around a rotating shaft that passes through a cover opening, in which case the comparison shall be as specified in paragraph (d)(9) of this section. If the difference is less than 500 ppmv, then the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions.

(9) For the seals around a rotating shaft that passes through a cover opening, the arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared with the value of 10,000 ppmw. If the difference is less than 10,000 ppmw, then the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions.
