
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 265 - INTERIM STATUS STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart CC - Air Emission Standards for Tanks, Surface Impoundments, and Containers
###### § 265.1087 Standards: Containers.
####### Container Level 3 standards.

(e)(1) A container using Container Level 3 controls is one of the following:

(i) A container that is vented directly through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) A container that is vented inside an enclosure which is exhausted through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator shall meet the following requirements, as applicable to the type of air emission control equipment selected by the owner or operator:

(i) The container enclosure shall be designed and operated in accordance with the criteria for a permanent total enclosure as specified in "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B. The enclosure may have permanent or temporary openings to allow worker access; passage of containers through the enclosure by conveyor or other mechanical means; entry of permanent mechanical or electrical equipment; or direct airflow into the enclosure. The owner or operator shall perform the verification procedure for the enclosure as specified in Section 5.0 to "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" initially when the enclosure is first installed and, thereafter, annually.

(ii) The closed-vent system and control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 265.1088 of this subpart.

(3) Safety devices, as defined in § 265.1081 of this subpart, may be installed and operated as necessary on any container, enclosure, closed-vent system, or control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(4) Owners and operators using Container Level 3 controls in accordance with the provisions of this subpart shall inspect and monitor the closed-vent systems and control devices as specified in § 265.1088 of this subpart.

(5) Owners and operators that use Container Level 3 controls in accordance with the provisions of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the records specified in § 265.1090(d) of this subpart.

(6) Transfer of hazardous waste in or out of a container using Container Level 3 controls shall be conducted in such a manner as to minimize exposure of the hazardous waste to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, considering the physical properties of the hazardous waste and good engineering and safety practices for handling flammable, ignitable, explosive, reactive, or other hazardous materials. Examples of container loading procedures that the EPA considers to meet the requirements of this paragraph include using any one of the following: A submerged-fill pipe or other submerged-fill method to load liquids into the container; a vapor-balancing system or a vapor-recovery system to collect and control the vapors displaced from the container during filling operations; or a fitted opening in the top of a container through which the hazardous waste is filled and subsequently purging the transfer line before removing it from the container opening.

(f) For the purpose of compliance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(i) of this section, containers shall be used that meet the applicable U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations on packaging hazardous materials for transportation as follows:

(1) The container meets the applicable requirements specified in 49 CFR part 178-Specifications for Packaging or 49 CFR part 179-Specifications for Tank Cars.

(2) Hazardous waste is managed in the container in accordance with the applicable requirements specified in 49 CFR part 107, subpart B-Exemptions; 49 CFR part 172-Hazardous Materials Table, Special Provisions, Hazardous Materials Communications, Emergency Response Information, and Training Requirements; 49 CFR part 173-Shippers-General Requirements for Shipments and Packages; and 49 CFR part 180-Continuing Qualification and Maintenance of Packagings.

(3) For the purpose of complying with this subpart, no exceptions to the 49 CFR part 178 or part 179 regulations are allowed except as provided for in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(4) For a lab pack that is managed in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR part 178 for the purpose of complying with this subpart, an owner or operator may comply with the exceptions for combination packagings specified in 49 CFR 173.12(b).

(g) To determine compliance with the no detectable organic emissions requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the procedure specified in § 265.1084(d) of this subpart shall be used.

(1) Each potential leak interface (i.e., a location where organic vapor leakage could occur) on the container, its cover, and associated closure devices, as applicable to the container, shall be checked. Potential leak interfaces that are associated with containers include, but are not limited to: The interface of the cover rim and the container wall; the periphery of any opening on the container or container cover and its associated closure device; and the sealing seat interface on a spring-loaded pressure-relief valve.

(2) The test shall be performed when the container is filled with a material having a volatile organic concentration representative of the range of volatile organic concentrations for the hazardous wastes expected to be managed in this type of container. During the test, the container cover and closure devices shall be secured in the closed position.

(h) Procedure for determining a container to be vapor-tight using Method 27 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A for the purpose of complying with paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.

(1) The test shall be performed in accordance with Method 27 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A of this chapter.

(2) A pressure measurement device shall be used that has a precision of +/-2.5 mm water and that is capable of measuring above the pressure at which the container is to be tested for vapor tightness.

(3) If the test results determined by Method 27 indicate that the container sustains a pressure change less than or equal to 750 Pascals within 5 minutes after it is pressurized to a minimum of 4,500 Pascals, then the container is determined to be vapor-tight.
