
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 265 - INTERIM STATUS STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
##### Subpart EE - Hazardous Waste Munitions and Explosives Storage
###### ยง 265.1201 Design and operating standards.
####### Outdoor or open storage areas.

(3)Outdoor or open storage areas must be located and designed so as to minimize the propagation of an explosion to adjacent units and to minimize other effects of any explosion.

(c) Hazardous waste munitions and explosives must be stored in accordance with a Standard Operating Procedure specifying procedures to ensure safety, security, and environmental protection. If these procedures serve the same purpose as the security and inspection requirements of 40 CFR 265.14, the preparedness and prevention procedures of 40 CFR part 265, subpart C, and the contingency plan and emergency procedures requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart D, then these procedures will be used to fulfill those requirements.

(d) Hazardous waste munitions and explosives must be packaged to ensure safety in handling and storage.

(e) Hazardous waste munitions and explosives must be inventoried at least annually.

(f) Hazardous waste munitions and explosives and their storage units must be inspected and monitored as necessary to ensure explosives safety and to ensure that there is no migration of contaminants out of the unit.
