
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces
###### § 266.103 Interim status standards for burners.
####### Monitoring and Inspections.

(j)(1) The owner or operator must monitor and record the following, at a minimum, while burning hazardous waste:

(i) Feed rates and composition of hazardous waste, other fuels, and industrial furnace feed stocks, and feed rates of ash, metals, and total chloride and chlorine as necessary to ensure conformance with the certification of precompliance or certification of compliance;

(ii) Carbon monoxide (CO), oxygen, and if applicable, hydrocarbons (HC), on a continuous basis at a common point in the boiler or industrial furnace downstream of the combustion zone and prior to release of stack gases to the atmosphere in accordance with the operating limits specified in the certification of compliance. CO, HC, and oxygen monitors must be installed, operated, and maintained in accordance with methods specified in appendix IX of this part.

(iii) Upon the request of the Director, sampling and analysis of the hazardous waste (and other fuels and industrial furnace feed stocks as appropriate) and the stack gas emissions must be conducted to verify that the operating conditions established in the certification of precompliance or certification of compliance achieve the applicable standards of §§ 266.104, 266.105, 266.106, and 266.107.

(2) The boiler or industrial furnace and associated equipment (pumps, valves, pipes, fuel storage tanks, etc.) must be subjected to thorough visual inspection when they contain hazardous waste, at least daily for leaks, spills, fugitive emissions, and signs of tampering.

(3) The automatic hazardous waste feed cutoff system and associated alarms must be tested at least once every 7 days when hazardous waste is burned to verify operability, unless the owner or operator can demonstrate that weekly inspections will unduly restrict or upset operations and that less frequent inspections will be adequate. Support for such demonstration shall be included in the operating record. At a minimum, operational testing must be conducted at least once every 30 days.

(4) These monitoring and inspection data must be recorded and the records must be placed in the operating log.
