
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix S to Part 51 - Emission Offset Interpretative Ruling
###### Review of specified sources for air quality impact.,stable,i.e.,

C.Forair pollutants (SO, particulate matter and CO), the determination of whether a source will cause or contribute to a violation of a NAAQS generally should be made on a case-by-case basis as of the proposed new source's start-up date using the source's allowable emissions in an atmospheric simulation model (unless a source will clearly impact on a receptor which exceeds a NAAQS).

For sources of nitrogen oxides, the initial determination of whether a source would cause or contribute to a violation of the NAAQS for NOshould be made using an atmospheric simulation model assuming all the nitric oxide emitted is oxidized to NOby the time the plume reaches ground level. The initial concentration estimates may be adjusted if adequate data are available to account for the expected oxidation rate.

For ozone, sources of volatile organic compounds, locating outside a designated ozone nonattainment area, will be presumed to have no significant impact on the designated nonattainment area. If ambient monitoring indicates that the area of source location is in fact nonattainment, then the source may be permitted under the provisions of any State plan adopted pursuant to section 110(a)(2)(D) of the Act until the area is designated nonattainment and a State implementation plan revision is approved. If no State plan pursuant to section 110(a)(2)(D) of the Act has been adopted and approved, then this Ruling shall apply.

As noted above, the determination as to whether a source would cause or contribute to a violation of a NAAQS should be made as of the new source's start-up date. Therefore, if a designated nonattainment area is projected to be an attainment area as part of an approved SIP control strategy by the new source start-up date, offsets would not be required if the new source would not cause a new violation.
