
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces
###### ยง 266.105 Standards to control particulate matter.

(a) A boiler or industrial furnace burning hazardous waste may not emit particulate matter in excess of 180 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (0.08 grains per dry standard cubic foot) after correction to a stack gas concentration of 7% oxygen, using procedures prescribed in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, methods 1 through 5, and appendix IX of this part.

(b) An owner or operator meeting the requirements of ยง 266.109(b) for the low risk waste exemption is exempt from the particulate matter standard.

(c) Oxygen correction. (1) Measured pollutant levels must be corrected for the amount of oxygen in the stack gas according to the formula:

(2) For devices that feed normal combustion air, E will equal 21 percent. For devices that feed oxygen-enriched air for combustion (that is, air with an oxygen concentration exceeding 21 percent), the value of E will be the concentration of oxygen in the enriched air.

(3) Compliance with all emission standards provided by this subpart must be based on correcting to 7 percent oxygen using this procedure.

(d) For the purposes of permit enforcement, compliance with the operating requirements specified in the permit (under ยง 266.102) will be regarded as compliance with this section. However, evidence that compliance with those permit conditions is insufficient to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section may be "information" justifying modification or revocation and re-issuance of a permit under ยง 270.41 of this chapter.
