
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces
###### ยง 266.112 Regulation of residues.
####### Sampling and analysis.

(iii)Waste-derived residue shall be sampled and analyzed as often as necessary to determine whether the residue generated during each 24-hour period has concentrations of toxic constituents that are higher than the health-based levels. Concentrations of toxic constituents of concern in the waste-derived residue shall be determined based on analysis of one or more samples obtained over a 24-hour period. Multiple samples may be analyzed, and multiple samples may be taken to form a composite sample for analysis provided that the sampling period does not exceed 24 hours. If more than one sample is analyzed to characterize waste-derived residues generated over a 24-hour period, the concentration of each toxic constituent shall be the arithmetic mean of the concentrations in the samples. No results may be disregarded; and

(c) Records sufficient to document compliance with the provisions of this section shall be retained until closure of the boiler or industrial furnace unit. At a minimum, the following shall be recorded.

(1) Levels of constituents in appendix VIII, part 261, that are present in waste-derived residues;

(2) If the waste-derived residue is compared with normal residue under paragraph (b)(1) of this section:

(i) The levels of constituents in appendix VIII, part 261, that are present in normal residues; and

(ii) Data and information, including analyses of samples as necessary, obtained to determine if changes in raw materials or fuels would reduce the concentration of toxic constituents of concern in the normal residue.
