
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Subpart P - Hazardous Waste Pharmaceuticals
###### § 266.501 Applicability.
####### e.g.,

(2) Over-the-counter pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements, or homeopathic drugs that are not solid wastes, as defined by § 261.2, because they have a reasonable expectation of being legitimately used/reused (lawfully redistributed for their intended purpose) or reclaimed.

(3) Pharmaceuticals being managed in accordance with a recall strategy that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration in accordance with 21 CFR part 7 subpart C. This subpart does apply to the management of the recalled hazardous waste pharmaceuticals after the Food and Drug Administration approves the destruction of the recalled items.

(4) Pharmaceuticals being managed in accordance with a recall corrective action plan that has been accepted by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in accordance with 16 CFR part 1115. This subpart does apply to the management of the recalled hazardous waste pharmaceuticals after the Consumer Product Safety Commission approves the destruction of the recalled items.

(5) Pharmaceuticals stored according to a preservation order, or during an investigation or judicial proceeding until after the preservation order, investigation, or judicial proceeding has concluded and/or a decision is made to discard the pharmaceuticals.

(6) Investigational new drugs for which an investigational new drug application is in effect in accordance with the Food and Drug Administration's regulations in 21 CFR part 312. This subpart does apply to the management of the investigational new drug after the decision is made to discard the investigational new drug or the Food and Drug Administration approves the destruction of the investigational new drug, if the investigational new drug is a hazardous waste.

(7) Household waste pharmaceuticals, including those that have been collected by an authorized collector (as defined by the Drug Enforcement Administration), provided the authorized collector complies with the conditional exemption in §§ 266.506(a)(2) and 266.506(b).
