
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Subpart P - Hazardous Waste Pharmaceuticals
###### ยง 266.502 Standards for healthcare facilities managing non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.
####### Notification and withdrawal from this subpart for healthcare facilities managing hazardous waste pharmaceuticals,Notification.

(a)-(1)A healthcare facility must notify the EPA Regional Administrator, using the Site Identification Form (EPA Form 8700-12), that it is a healthcare facility operating under this subpart. A healthcare facility is not required to fill out Box 10.B. (Waste Codes for Federally Regulated Hazardous Waste) of the Site Identification Form with respect to its hazardous waste pharmaceuticals. A healthcare facility must submit a separate notification (Site Identification Form) for each site or EPA identification number.

(i) A healthcare facility that already has an EPA identification number must notify the EPA Regional Administrator, using the Site Identification Form (EPA Form 8700-12), that it is a healthcare facility as part of its next Biennial Report, if it is required to submit one; or if not required to submit a Biennial Report, within 60 days of the effective date of this subpart, or within 60 days of becoming subject to this subpart.

(ii) A healthcare facility that does not have an EPA identification number must obtain one by notifying the EPA Regional Administrator, using the Site Identification Form (EPA Form 8700-12), that it is a healthcare facility as part of its next Biennial Report, if it is required to submit one; or if not required to submit a Biennial Report, within 60 days of the effective date of this subpart, or within 60 days of becoming subject to this subpart.

(iii) A healthcare facility must keep a copy of its notification on file for as long as the healthcare facility is subject to this subpart.
