
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Subpart P - Hazardous Waste Pharmaceuticals
###### ยง 266.502 Standards for healthcare facilities managing non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.
####### Recordkeeping by healthcare facilities for non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.

(j)(1) A healthcare facility must keep a copy of each manifest signed in accordance with ยง 262.23(a) for three years or until it receives a signed copy from the designated facility which received the non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals. This signed copy must be retained as a record for at least three years from the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter.

(2) A healthcare facility must keep a copy of each exception report for a period of at least three years from the date of the report.

(3) A healthcare facility must keep records of any test results, waste analyses, or other determinations made to support its hazardous waste determination(s) consistent with ยง 262.11(f), for at least three years from the date the waste was last sent to on-site or off-site treatment, storage or disposal. A healthcare facility that manages all of its non-creditable non-hazardous waste pharmaceuticals as non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals is not required to keep documentation of hazardous waste determinations.

(4) The periods of retention referred to in this section are extended automatically during the course of any unresolved enforcement action regarding the regulated activity, or as requested by the EPA Regional Administrator.

(5) All records must be readily available upon request by an inspector.
