
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Subpart P - Hazardous Waste Pharmaceuticals
###### ยง 266.510 Standards for the management of potentially creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals at reverse distributors.
####### Recordkeeping by a reverse distributor for evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.

(10)(i) A reverse distributor must keep a log (written or electronic) of the inspections of the on-site accumulation area, required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section. This log must be retained as a record for at least three years from the date of the inspection.

(ii) A reverse distributor must keep a copy of each manifest signed in accordance with ยง 262.23(a) for three years or until it receives a signed copy from the designated facility that received the evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceutical. This signed copy must be retained as a record for at least three years from the date the evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceutical was accepted by the initial transporter.

(iii) A reverse distributor must keep a copy of each biennial report for at least three years from the due date of the report.

(iv) A reverse distributor must keep a copy of each exception report for at least three years from the submission of the report.

(v) A reverse distributor must keep records to document personnel training, in accordance with ยง 262.17(a)(7)(iv).

(vi) All records must be readily available upon request by an inspector. The periods of retention referred to in this section are extended automatically during the course of any unresolved enforcement action regarding the regulated activity, or as requested by the EPA Regional Administrator.
