
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Appendix IX to Part 266 - Methods Manual for Compliance With the BIF Regulations
###### i.e.

Under this method, cement kilns and other industrial furnaces that recycle emission control residue back into the furnace must comply with a kiln dust concentration limit (, a collected particulate matter (PM) limit) for each metal, as well as limits on the maximum feedrates of each of the metals in: (1) pumpable hazardous waste; and (2) all hazardous waste.

The following subsections describe how this method for controlling metals emissions is to be implemented:

- Subsection 10.3 discusses the basis of the method and the assumptions upon which it is founded;

- Subsection 10.4 provides an overview of the implementation of the method;

- Subsection 10.5 is a step-by-step procedure for implementation of the method;

- Subsection 10.6 describes the compliance procedures for this method; and

- Appendix A describes the statistical calculations and tests to be used in the method.

The viability of this method depends on three fundamental assumptions:

(1) Variations in the ratio of the metal concentration in the emitted particulate to the metal concentration in the collected kiln dust (referred to as the enrichment factor or EF) for any given metal at any given facility will fall within a normal distribution that can be experimentally determined.

(2) The metal concentrations in the collected kiln dust can be accurately and representatively measured.

(3) The facility will remain in compliance with the applicable particulate matter (PM) emission standard.

Given these assumptions. metal emissions can be related to the measured concentrations in the collected kiln dust by the following equation:

This equation can be rearranged to calculate a maximum allowable dust metal concentration limit (DMCL) by assuming worst-case conditions that: metal emissions are at the Tier III (or Tier II) limit (see 40 CFR 266.106), and that particulate emissions are at the particulate matter limit (PML):

The enrichment factor used in the above equation must be determined experimentally from a minimum of 10 tests in which metal concentrations are measured in kiln dust and stack samples taken simultaneously. This approach provides a range of enrichment factors that can be inserted into a statistical distribution (t-distribution) to determine EFand EF. EFis the value at which there is a 95% confidence level that the enrichment factor is below this value at any given time. Similarly, EFis the value at which there is a 99% confidence level that the enrichment factor is below this value at any given time. EFis used to calculate the "violation" dust metal concentration limit (DMCL):

If the kiln dust metal concentration is just above this "violation" limit, and the PM emissions are at the PM emissions limit, there is a 5% chance that the metal emissions are above the Tier III limit. In such a case, the facility would be in violation of the metals standard.

To provide a margin of safety, a second, more conservative kiln dust metal concentration limit is also used. This "conservative" dust metal concentration limit (DMCL) is calculated using a "safe" enrichment factor (SEF). If EFis greater than two times the value of EF, the "safe" enrichment factor can be calculated using Equation 4a:

If EFis not greater than two times the value of EF, the "safe" enrichment factor can be calculated using Equation 4b:

In cases where the enrichment factor cannot be determined because the kiln dust metal concentration is nondetectable, the "safe" enrichment factor is as follows:

For all cases, the "conservative" dust metal concentration limit is calculated using the following equation:

If the kiln dust metal concentration at a facility is just above the "conservative" limit based on that "safe" enrichment factor provided in Equation 4a, and the PM emissions are at the PM emissions limit, there is a 5% chance that the metal emissions are above one-half the Tier III limit. If the kiln dust metal concentration at the facility is just above the "conservative" limit based on the "safe" enrichment factor provided in Equation 4b, and the PM emissions are at the PM emissions limit, there is a 1% chance that the metal emissions are above the Tier III limit. In either case, the facility would be unacceptably close to a violation. If this situation occurs more than 5% of the time, the facility would be required to rerun the series of 10 tests to determine the enrichment factor. To avoid this expense, the facility would be advised to reduce its metals feedrates or to take other appropriate measures to maintain its kiln dust metal concentrations in compliance with the "conservative" dust metal concentration limits.

In cases where the enrichment factor cannot be determined because the kiln dust metal concentration is nondetectable, and thus no EFexists, the "violation" dust metal concentration limit is set at ten times the "conservative" limit:

The flowchart for implementing the method is shown in Figure 10.4-1. The general procedure is as follows:

- Follow the certification of precompliance procedures described in subsection 10.6 (to comply with 40 CFR 266.103(b)).

- For each metal of concern, perform a series of tests to establish the relationship (enrichment factor) between the concentration of emitted metal and the metal concentration in the collected kiln dust.

- Use the demonstrated enrichment factor, in combination with the Tier III (or Tier II) metal emission limit and the most stringent applicable particulate emission limit, to calculate the "violation" and "conservative" dust metal concentration limits. Include this information with the certification of compliance under 40 CFR 266.103(c).

- Perform daily and/or weekly monitoring of the cement kiln dust metal concentration to ensure (with appropriate QA/QC) that the metal concentration does not exceed either limit.

- Perform quarterly tests to verify that the enrichment factor has not increased significantly. If the enrichment factor has increased, the series of tests to determine the enrichment factor must be repeated.

A step-by-step description for implementing the method is provided below:

(1) Prepare initial limits and test plans.

- Determine the Tier III metal emission limit. The Tier II metal emission limit may also be used (see 40 CFR 266.106).
