
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Appendix IX to Part 266 - Methods Manual for Compliance With the BIF Regulations
###### i.e.

- Submit certification of precompliance. This certification must include precompliance limits for all compliance parameters that apply to other boilers and industrial furnaces (, those that do not recycle emission control residue back into the furnace) as listed in ยง 266.103(b)(3), except that it is not necessary to set precompliance limits on maximum feedrate of each hazardous metal in all combined feedstreams.

- Furnaces that recycle collected PM back into the furnace (and that elect to comply with this method (see ยง 266.103(c)(3)(ii)) are subject to a special precompliance parameter, however. They must establish precompliance limits on the maximum concentration of each hazardous metal in collected kiln dust (which must be set according to the procedures described above).

(5) Monitor metal concentration in kiln dust for continuing compliance, and maintain compliance with all precompliance limits until certification of compliance has been submitted.

- Metals to be monitored during precompliance testing are classified as either "critical" or "noncritical" metals.

- It is a violation if the facility fails to analyze the kiln dust for any "critical" metal on any single day or for any "noncritical" metal during any single week, when hazardous waste is burned.

- Follow the sampling, compositing, and analytical procedures described in this method and in other appropriate methods as they pertain to the condition and accessibility of the kiln dust.

- Samples must be collected at least once every 8 hours, and a daily composite must be prepared according to appropriate procedures.

- Analyze the "required" sample to determine the concentration of each metal.

- If the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit is exceeded for any metal, refer to Step 8.

- If the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit is not exceeded, continue with the daily and/or weekly monitoring (Step 5) for the duration of interim status.

(6) This step does not apply to precompliance procedures.

(7) This step does not apply to precompliance procedures.

(8) If the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit was exceeded for any metal in any single analysis of the "required" kiln dust sample, the "spare" samples corresponding to the same period may be analyzed to determine if the exceedance is due to a sampling or analysis error.

- If no "spare" samples were taken, refer to Step 9.

- If the average of all the samples for a given day (or week, as applicable) (including the "required" sample and the "spare" samples) does not exceed the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit, no corrective measures are necessary; continue with the daily and/or weekly monitoring as described in Step 5.

- If the average of all the samples for a given day (or week, as applicable) exceeds the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit, but the average of the "spare" samples is below the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit, apply the Q-test, described in appendix A, to determine whether the "required" sample concentration can be judged as an outlier.

(9) This step does not apply to precompliance procedures.

(10) Determine if the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit has been exceeded more than three times in the last 60 days.

- If not, log this exceedance and continue with the daily and/or weekly monitoring (Step 5).

- If so, the tests to determine the enrichment factors must be repeated (refer to Step 11).

- This determination is made separately for each metal; for example:

- This determination should be made daily, beginning on the first day of daily monitoring. For example, if four exceedances of any single metal occur in the first four days of daily monitoring, do not wait until the end of the 60-day period; refer immediately to Step 11.

(11) A revised certification of precompliance must be submitted to the Director (or certification of compliance must be submitted) if: (1) More than three exceedances of the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit occur within any 60 consecutive daily samples; or (2) an exceedance of the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit occurs in any weekly sample.

- The facility must notify the Director if a revised certification of precompliance must be submitted.

- The facility has up to 720 waste-burning hours to submit a certification of compliance or a revised certification of precompliance. During this period, the feed rate of the metal in violation must be reduced by 50%. In the case of a revised certification of precompliance, engineering judgement must be used to ensure that the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration will not be exceeded. Examples of how this goal might be accomplished include:

- Meanwhile, the facility must continue with daily kiln dust metals monitoring (Step 5).

After at least 10 initial emissions tests are performed, an enrichment factor for each metal must be determined. At the 95% confidence level, the enrichment factor, EF, is based on the test results and is statistically determined so there is only a 5% chance that the enrichment factor at any given time will be larger than EF. Similarly, at the 99% confidence level, the enrichment factor, EF, is statistically determined so there is only a 1% chance that the enrichment factor at any given time will be larger than EF.

For a large number of samples (n >30), EFis based on a normal distribution, and is equal to:

For a 95% confidence level, zis equal to 1.645.

For a small number of samples (n<30), EFis based on the t-distribution and is equal to:

To determine if the enrichment factors measured in the quarterly tests are significantly different from the enrichment factors determined in the initial Step 2 tests, the t-test is used. In this test, the value t

If the concentration of any hazardous metal in the "required" kiln dust sample exceeds the kiln dust metal concentration limit, the "spare" samples are analyzed. If the average of the combined "required" and "spare" values is still above the limit, a statistical test is used to decide if the upper value can be rejected.

The "Q-test" is used to determine if a data point can be rejected. The difference between the questionable result and its neighbor is divided by the spread of the entire data set. The resulting ratio, Q, is then compared with rejection values that are critical for a particular degree of confidence, where Qis:
