
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Appendix IX to Part 266 - Methods Manual for Compliance With the BIF Regulations
###### i.e.

- The EFcalculated for the combined data sets (, the quarterly test data and the original Step 2 test data) according to the t-distribution (described in appendix A) is more than 10% higher than the EFbased on the enrichment factors previously measured in Step 2; and

- The highest measured kiln dust metal concentration recorded in the previous quarter is more than 10% of the "violation" kiln dust concentration limit that would be calculated from the combined EF.

If the enrichment factors have increased significantly, the tests to determine the enrichment factors must be repeated (refer to Step 11). If the enrichment factors have not increased significantly, continue to use the kiln dust metal concentration limits based on the enrichment factors previously measured in Step 2, and continue with the daily and/or weekly monitoring described in Step 5.

(8) If the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit was exceeded for any metal in any single analysis of the "required" kiln dust sample, the "spare" samples corresponding to the same period may be analyzed to determine if the exceedance was due to a sampling or analysis error.

- If no "spare" samples were taken, refer to Step 9.

- If the average of all the samples for a given day (or week, as applicable) (including the "required" sample and the "spare" samples) does not exceed the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit, no corrective measures are necessary; continue with the daily and/or weekly monitoring as described in Step 5.

- If the average of all the samples for a given day (or week, as applicable) exceeds the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit, but the average of the "spare" samples is below the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit, apply the Q-test, described in appendix A, to determine whether the "required" sample concentration can be judged as an outlier.

(9) Determine if the "violation" kiln dust metal concentration has been exceeded based on either the average of all the samples collected during the 24-hour period in question, or if discarding an outlier can be statistically justified by the Q-test described in appendix A, on the average of the remaining samples.

- If the "violation" kiln dust metal concentration limit has been exceeded, a violation of the metals controls under ยง 266.103(c) has occurred. Notify the Director that a violation has occurred. Hazardous waste may be burned for testing purposes for up to 720 operating hours to support a revised certification of compliance. Note that the Director may grant an extension of the hours of hazardous waste burning under ยง 266.103(c)(7) if additional burning time is needed to support a revised certification for reasons beyond the control of the owner or operator. Until a revised certification of compliance is submitted to the Director, the feedrate of the metals in violation in total and pumpable hazardous waste feeds is limited to 50% of the previous compliance test limits.

- If the "violation" kiln dust metal concentration has not been exceeded:

(10) Determine if the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit has been exceeded more than three times in the last 60 days.

- If not, log this exceedance and continue with the daily and/or weekly monitoring (Step 5).

- If so, the tests to determine the enrichment factors must be repeated (refer to Step 11).

- This determination is made separately for each metal. For example,

- This determination should be made daily, beginning on the first day of daily monitoring. For example, if four exceedances of any single metal occur in the first four days of daily monitoring, do not wait until the end of the 60-day period; refer immediately to Step 11.

(11) The tests to determine the enrichment factor must be repeated if: (1) More than three exceedances of the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit occur within any 60 consecutive daily samples; (2) an excursion of the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit occurs in any weekly sample; or (3) a quarterly test indicates that the enrichment factors have increased significantly.

- The facility must notify the Director if these tests must be repeated.

- The facility has up to 720 hazardous-waste-burning hours to redetermine the enrichment factors for the metal or metals in question and to recertify (beginning with a return to Step 2). During this period, the facility must reduce the feed rate of the metal in violation by 50%. If the facility has not completed the recertification process within this period, it must stop burning or obtain an extension. Hazardous waste burning may resume only when the recertification process (ending with Step 4) has been completed.

- Meanwhile, the facility must continue with daily kiln dust metals monitoring (Step 5) and must remain in compliance with the "violation" kiln dust metal concentration limits (Step 9).

Cement kilns and other industrial furnaces that recycle emission control residue back into the furnace must comply with the same certification schedules and procedures (with the few exceptions described below) that apply to other boilers and industrial furnaces. These schedules and procedures, as set forth in ยง 266.103, require no later than the effective date of the rule, each facility submit a certification which establishes precompliance limits for a number of compliance parameters (see ยง 266.103(b)(3)), and that each facility immediately begin to operate under these limits.

These precompliance limits must ensure that interim status emissions limits for hazardous metals, particulate matter, HCl, and Clare not likely to be exceeded. Determination of the values of the precompliance limits must be made based on either (1) conservative default assumptions provided in this Methods Manual, or (2) engineering judgement.

The flowchart for implementing the precompliance procedures is shown in Figure 10.6-1. The step-by-step precompliance implementation procedure is described below. The precompliance implementation procedures and numbering scheme are similar to those used for the compliance procedures described in Subsection 10.5.

(1) Prepare initial limits and test plans.

- Determine the Tier III metal emission limit. The Tier II metal emission limit may also be used (see 40 CFR 266.106).
