
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Appendix IX to Part 266 - Methods Manual for Compliance With the BIF Regulations
###### i.e.

- Determine which metals need to be monitored (, all hazardous metals for which Tier III emission limits are lower than PM emission limits-assuming PM is pure metal).

- Follow the compliance procedures described in Subsection 10.6.

- Follow appropriate guidelines for preparing test plans and waste analysis plans for the following tests:

(2) Conduct tests to determine the enrichment factor.

- These tests must be conducted within a 14-day period. No more than two tests may be conducted in any single day. If the tests are not completed within a 14-day period, they must be repeated.

- Simultaneous stack samples and kiln dust samples must be taken.

- The feedrates of hazardous metals in all pumpable hazardous waste streams and in all hazardous waste streams must be monitored during these tests. It is recommended (but not required) that the feedrates of hazardous metals in all feedstreams also be monitored.

- At least ten single (noncomposited) runs are required during the tests.

- Verify that compliance emission limits are not exceeded.

- The facility must generate normal, marketable product using normal raw materials and fuels under normal operating conditions (for parameters other than those specified under this method) when these tests are conducted.

- Chromium must be treated as a special case:

(3) Use the enrichment factors measured in Step 2 to determine EF, EF, and SEF.

- Calculate EFand EFaccording to the t-distribution as described in Appendix A

- Calculate SEF by

The facility may choose to set an even more conservative SEF to give itself a larger margin of safety between the point where corrective action is necessary and the point where a violation occurs.

(4) Prepare certification of compliance.

- Calculate the "conservative" dust metal concentration limit (DMCL) using Equation 5.

- Calculate the "violation" dust metal concentration limit (DMCL) using Equation 3 if EFis determinable, or using Equation 6 if EFis not determinable.

- Submit certification of compliance.

- Steps 2-4 must be repeated for recertification, which is required once every 3 years (see ยง 266.103(d)).

(5) Monitor metal concentrations in kiln dust for continuing compliance, and maintain compliance with all compliance limits for the duration of interim status.

- Metals to be monitored during compliance testing are classified as either "critical" or "noncritical" metals.

- Noncompliance with the sampling and analysis schedule prescribed by this method is a violation of the metals controls under ยง 266.103.

- Follow the sampling, compositing, and analytical procedures described in this method and in other appropriate methods, as they pertain to the condition and accessibility of the kiln dust.

- Follow the same procedures and sample at the same locations as were used for kiln dust samples collected to determine the enrichment factors (as discussed in Step 2).

- Samples must be collected at least once every 8 hours, and a daily composite must be prepared according to appropriate procedures.

- Analyze the "required" sample to determine the concentration of each metal.

- If the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit is exceeded for any metal, refer to Step 8.

- If the "conservative" kiln dust metal concentration limit is not exceeded, continue with the daily or weekly monitoring (Step 5) for the duration of interim status.

- Conduct quarterly enrichment factor verification tests, as described in Step 6.

(6) Conduct quarterly enrichment factor verification tests.

- After certification of compliance with the metals standards, a facility must conduct quarterly enrichment factor verification tests every three months for the duration of interim status. The first quarterly test must be completed within three months of certification (or recertification). Each subsequent quarterly test must be completed within three months of the preceding quarterly test. Failure to meet this schedule is a violation.

- Simultaneous stack samples and kiln dust samples must be collected.

- Follow the same procedures and sample at the same locations as were used for kiln dust samples and stack samples collected to determine the enrichment factors (as discussed in Step 2).

- At least three single (noncomposited) runs are required. These tests need not be conducted under the operating conditions of the initial compliance test; however, the facility must operate under the following conditions:

(7) Conduct a statistical test to determine if the enrichment factors measured in the quarterly verification tests have increased significantly from the enrichment factors determined in the tests conducted in Step 2. The enrichment factors have increased significantly if all three of the following criteria are met:

- By applying the t-test described in appendix A, it is determined that the enrichment factors measured in the quarterly tests are not taken from the same population as the enrichment factors measured in the Step 2 tests;
