
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 266 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC HAZARDOUS WASTES AND SPECIFIC TYPES OF HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES
##### Appendix IX to Part 266 - Methods Manual for Compliance With the BIF Regulations
###### i.e.

- Determine which metals need to be monitored (, all hazardous metals for which Tier III emission limits are lower than PM emission limits, assuming PM is pure metal).

- Follow appropriate procedures for preparing waste analysis plans for the following tasks:

(2) Determine the "safe" enrichment factor for precompliance. In this context, the "safe" enrichment factor is a conservatively high estimate of the enrichment factor (the ratio of the emitted metal concentration to the metal concentration in the collected kiln dust). The "safe" enrichment factor must be calculated from either conservative default values, or engineering judgement.

- Conservative default values for the "safe" enrichment factor are as follows:

- Engineering judgement may be used in place of conservative default assumptions provided that the engineering judgement is defensible and properly documented. The facility must keep a written record of all assumptions and calculations necessary to justify the SEF. The facility must provide this record to EPA upon request and must be prepared to defend these assumptions and calculations.

Examples of situations where the use of engineering judgement is appropriate include:

(3) This step does not apply to precompliance procedures.

(4) Prepare certification of precompliance.

- Calculate the "conservative" dust metal concentration limit (DMCL) using Equation 5.
