
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 267 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITIES OPERATING UNDER A STANDARDIZED PERMIT
##### Subpart E - Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Notifying
###### ยง 267.75 What reports must I prepare and to whom do I send them?

You must prepare a biennial report and other reports listed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(a) Biennial report. You must prepare and submit a single copy of a biennial report to the Regional Administrator by March 1 of each even numbered year. The biennial report must be submitted on EPA form 8700-13B. The report must cover facility activities during the previous calendar year and must include:

(1) The EPA identification number, name, and address of the facility;

(2) The calendar year covered by the report;

(3) The method of treatment or storage for each hazardous waste;

(4) The most recent closure cost estimate under ยง 267.142;

(5) A description of the efforts undertaken during the year to reduce the volume and toxicity of generated waste.

(6) A description of the changes in volume and toxicity of waste actually achieved during the year in comparison to previous years to the extent such information is available for the years prior to 1984.

(7) The certification signed by you.

(b) Additional reports. In addition to submitting the biennial reports, you must also report to the Regional Administrator:

(1) Releases, fires, and explosions as specified in ยง 267.58(b);

(2) Facility closures specified in ยง 267.117; and

(3) As otherwise required by subparts I, J, and DD of this part and part 264, subparts AA, BB, CC.

(c) For off-site facilities, the EPA identification number of each hazardous waste generator from which the facility received a hazardous waste during the year; for imported shipments, the report must give the name and address of the foreign generator;

(d) A description and the quantity of each hazardous waste the facility received during the year. For off-site facilities, this information must be listed by EPA identification number of each generator.
