
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 267 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITIES OPERATING UNDER A STANDARDIZED PERMIT
##### Subpart G - Closure
###### § 267.112 What procedures must I follow?

(a) To close a facility, you must follow your approved closure plan, and follow notification requirements.

(1) Your closure plan must be submitted at the time you submitted your Notice of Intent to operate under a standardized permit. Final issuance of the standardized permit constitutes approval of the closure plan, and the plan becomes a condition of the RCRA standardized permit.

(2) The Director's approval of the plan must ensure that the approved plan is consistent with §§ 267.111 through 267.115, 267.176, 267.201, and 267.1108.

(b) Satisfy the requirements for content of closure plan. The closure plan must identify steps necessary to perform partial and/or final closure of the facility. The closure plan must include, at least:

(1) A description of how each hazardous waste management unit at the facility subject to this subpart will be closed following § 267.111.

(2) A description of how final closure of the facility will be conducted in accordance with § 267.111. The description must identify the maximum extent of the operations which will be unclosed during the active life of the facility.

(3) An estimate of the maximum inventory of hazardous wastes ever on site during the active life of the facility and a detailed description of the methods you will use during partial and/or final closure, such as methods for removing, transporting, treating, storing, or disposing of all hazardous wastes, and identification of the type(s) of off-site hazardous waste management units to be used, if applicable.

(4) A detailed description of the steps needed to remove or decontaminate all hazardous waste residues and contaminated containment system components, equipment, structures, and soils during partial or final closure. These might include procedures for cleaning equipment and removing contaminated soils, methods for sampling and testing surrounding soils, and criteria for determining the extent of decontamination required to satisfy the closure performance standard;

(5) A detailed description of other activities necessary during the closure period to ensure that partial or final closure satisfies the closure performance standards.

(6) A schedule for closure of each hazardous waste management unit, and for final closure of the facility. The schedule must include, at a minimum, the total time required to close each hazardous waste management unit and the time required for intervening closure activities that allow tracking of progress of partial or final closure.

(7) For facilities that use trust funds to establish financial assurance under § 267.143 and that are expected to close prior to the expiration of the permit, an estimate of the expected year of final closure.

(c) You may submit a written notification to the Director for a permit modification to amend the closure plan at any time prior to the notification of partial or final closure of the facility, following the applicable procedures in 40 CFR 124.211.

(1) Events leading to a change in the closure plan, and therefore requiring a modification, may include:

(i) A change in the operating plan or facility design;

(ii) A change in the expected year of closure, if applicable; or

(iii) In conducting partial or final closure activities, an unexpected event requiring a modification of the approved closure plan.

(2) The written notification or request must include a copy of the amended closure plan for review or approval by the Director. The Director will approve, disapprove, or modify this amended plan in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 124.211 and 270.320.

(d) Notification before final closure. (1) You must notify the Director in writing at least 45 days before the date that you expect to begin final closure of a treatment or storage tank, container storage area, or containment building.

(2) The date when you "expect to begin closure" must be no later than 30 days after the date that any hazardous waste management unit receives the known final volume of hazardous wastes.

(3) If your facility's permit is terminated, or if you are otherwise ordered, by judicial decree or final order under section 3008 of RCRA, to cease receiving hazardous wastes or to close, then the requirements of this paragraph (d) do not apply. However, you must close the facility following the deadlines established in § 267.115.
