
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 267 - STANDARDS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITIES OPERATING UNDER A STANDARDIZED PERMIT
##### Subpart H - Financial Requirements
###### § 267.147 Liability requirements.
####### Financial component.

(1)(i) If using the financial test for only liability coverage, the owner or operator must have tangible net worth greater than the sum of the liability coverage to be demonstrated by this test plus $10 million.

(ii) The owner or operator must have assets located in the United States amounting to at least the amount of liability covered by this financial test.

(iii) An owner or operator who is demonstrating coverage for liability and any other environmental obligations, including closure under § 267.143(f), through a financial test must meet the requirements of § 267.143(f).

(2) Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(i) The owner or operator must submit the following items to the Regional Administrator:

(A) A letter signed by the owner's or operator's chief financial officer that provides evidence demonstrating that the firm meets the conditions of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(ii) of this section. If the firm is providing only liability coverage through a financial test for a facility or facilities with a permit under § 267, the letter should use the wording in § 267.151(b). If the firm is providing only liability coverage through a financial test for facilities regulated under part 267 and also part 264 or part 265, it should use the letter in § 264.151(g). If the firm is providing liability coverage through a financial test for a facility or facilities with a permit under § 267, and it assures closure costs or any other environmental obligations through a financial test, it must use the letter in § 267.151(a) for the facilities issued a permit under § 267.

(B) A copy of the independent certified public accountant's unqualified opinion of the owner's or operator's financial statements for the latest completed fiscal year. To be eligible to use the financial test, the owner's or operator's financial statements must receive an unqualified opinion from the independent certified public accountant. An adverse opinion, disclaimer of opinion, or other qualified opinion will be cause for disallowance, with the potential exception for qualified opinions provided in the next sentence. The Regional Administrator may evaluate qualified opinions on a case-by-case basis and allow use of the financial test in cases where the Regional Administrator deems that the matters which form the basis for the qualification are insufficient to warrant disallowance of the test. If the Regional Administrator does not allow use of the test, the owner or operator must provide alternate financial assurance that meets the requirements of this section (§ 267.147) within 30 days after the notification of disallowance.

(C) If the chief financial officer's letter providing evidence of financial assurance includes financial data showing that the owner or operator satisfies paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section that are different from data in the audited financial statements referred to in paragraph (f)(2)(i)(B) of this section or any other audited financial statement or data filed with the SEC, then a special report from the owner's or operator's independent certified public accountant to the owner or operator is required. The special report shall be based upon an agreed upon procedures engagement in accordance with professional auditing standards and shall describe the procedures performed in comparing the data in the chief financial officer's letter derived from the independently audited, year-end financial statements for the latest fiscal year with the amounts in such financial statements, the findings of that comparison, and the reasons for any differences.

(ii) The owner or operator of a new facility must submit the items specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section to the Regional Administrator at least 60 days before placing waste in the facility.

(iii) After the initial submission of items specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the owner or operator must send updated information to the Regional Administrator within 90 days following the close of the owner or operator's fiscal year. The Regional Administrator may provide up to an additional 45 days for an owner or operator who can demonstrate that 90 days is insufficient time to acquire audited financial statements. The updated information must consist of all items specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.

(iv) The owner or operator is no longer required to submit the items specified in this paragraph (f)(2) or comply with the requirements of this paragraph (f) when:

(A) The owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section that is not subject to these recordkeeping and reporting requirements; or

(B) The Regional Administrator releases the owner or operator from the requirements of this section in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.

(v) An owner or operator who no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section cannot use the financial test to demonstrate financial assurance. An owner or operator who no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, must:

(A) Send notice to the Regional Administrator of intent to establish alternate financial assurance as specified in this section. The owner or operator must send this notice by certified mail within 90 days following the close of the owner or operator's fiscal year for which the year-end financial data show that the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements of this section.

(B) Provide alternative financial assurance within 120 days after the end of such fiscal year.

(vi) The Regional Administrator may, based on a reasonable belief that the owner or operator may no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, require at any time the owner or operator to provide reports of its financial condition in addition to or including current financial test documentation as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. If the Regional Administrator finds that the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must provide alternate financial assurance that meets the requirements of this section.
