
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 268 - LAND DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 268.7 Testing, tracking, and recordkeeping requirements for generators, reverse distributors, treaters, and disposal facilities.
####### i.e.

(6) Where the wastes are recyclable materials used in a manner constituting disposal subject to the provisions of § 266.20(b) of this chapter regarding treatment standards and prohibition levels, the owner or operator of a treatment facility (, the recycler) must, for the initial shipment of waste, prepare a one-time certification described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and a one-time notice which includes the information in paragraph (b)(3) of this section (except the manifest number). The certification and notification must be placed in the facility's on-site files. If the waste or the receiving facility changes, a new certification and notification must be prepared and placed in the on site files. In addition, the recycling facility must also keep records of the name and location of each entity receiving the hazardous waste-derived product.

(c) Except where the owner or operator is disposing of any waste that is a recyclable material used in a manner constituting disposal pursuant to 40 CFR 266.20(b), the owner or operator of any land disposal facility disposing any waste subject to restrictions under this part must:

(1) Have copies of the notice and certifications specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(2) Test the waste, or an extract of the waste or treatment residue developed using test method 1311 (the Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure, described in "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods," EPA Publication SW-846 as incorporated by reference in § 260.11 of this chapter), to assure that the wastes or treatment residues are in compliance with the applicable treatment standards set forth in subpart D of this part. Such testing must be performed according to the frequency specified in the facility's waste analysis plan as required by § 264.13 or § 265.13 of this chapter.
