
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 268 - LAND DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS
##### Subpart C - Prohibitions on Land Disposal
###### § 268.38 Waste specific prohibitions - newly identified organic toxicity characteristic wastes and newly listed coke by-product and chlorotoluene production wastes.

(a) Effective December 19, 1994, the wastes specified in 40 CFR 261.32 as EPA Hazardous Waste numbers K141, K142, K143, K144, K145, K147, K148, K149, K150, and K151 are prohibited from land disposal. In addition, debris contaminated with EPA Hazardous Waste numbers F037, F038, K107-K112, K117, K118, K123-K126, K131, K132, K136, U328, U353, U359, and soil and debris contaminated with D012-D043, K141-K145, and K147-K151 are prohibited from land disposal. The following wastes that are specified in 40 CFR 261.24, Table 1 as EPA Hazardous Waste numbers: D012, D013, D014, D015, D016, D017, D018, D019, D020, D021, D022, D023, D024, D025, D026, D027, D028, D029, D030, D031, D032, D033, D034, D035, D036, D037, D038, D039, D040, D041, D042, D043 that are not radioactive, or that are managed in systems other than those whose discharge is regulated under the Clean Water Act (CWA), or that are zero dischargers that do not engage in CWA-equivalent treatment before ultimate land disposal, or that are injected in Class I deep wells regulated under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), are prohibited from land disposal. CWA-equivalent treatment means biological treatment for organics, alkaline chlorination or ferrous sulfate precipitation for cyanide, precipitation/ sedimentation for metals, reduction of hexavalent chromium, or other treatment technology that can be demonstrated to perform equally or better than these technologies.

(b) On September 19, 1996, radioactive wastes that are mixed with D018-D043 that are managed in systems other than those whose discharge is regulated under the Clean Water Act (CWA), or that inject in Class I deep wells regulated under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), or that are zero dischargers that engage in CWA-equivalent treatment before ultimate land disposal, are prohibited from land disposal. CWA-equivalent treatment means biological treatment for organics, alkaline chlorination or ferrous sulfate precipitation for cyanide, precipitation/ sedimentation for metals, reduction of hexavalent chromium, or other treatment technology that can be demonstrated to perform equally or greater than these technologies. Radioactive wastes mixed with K141-K145, and K147-K151 are also prohibited from land disposal. In addition, soil and debris contaminated with these radioactive mixed wastes are prohibited from land disposal.

(c) Between December 19, 1994 and September 19, 1996, the wastes included in paragraphs (b) of this section may be disposed in a landfill or surface impoundment, only if such unit is in compliance with the requirements specified in § 268.5(h)(2) of this Part.

(d) The requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section do not apply if:

(1) The wastes meet the applicable treatment standards specified in Subpart D of this part;

(2) Persons have been granted an exemption from a prohibition pursuant to a petition under § 268.6, with respect to those wastes and units covered by the petition;

(3) The wastes meet the applicable alternate treatment standards established pursuant to a petition granted under § 268.44;

(4) Persons have been granted an extension to the effective date of a prohibition pursuant to § 268.5, with respect to these wastes covered by the extension.

(e) To determine whether a hazardous waste identified in this section exceeds the applicable treatment standards specified in § 268.40, the initial generator must test a sample of the waste extract or the entire waste, depending on whether the treatment standards are expressed as concentrations in the waste extract or the waste, or the generator may use knowledge of the waste. If the waste contains constituents in excess of the applicable Subpart D levels, the waste is prohibited from land disposal, and all requirements of part 268 are applicable, except as otherwise specified.
