
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 268 - LAND DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS
##### Subpart D - Treatment Standards
###### § 268.42 Treatment standards expressed as specified technologies.

(a) The following wastes in the table in § 268.40 "Treatment Standards for Hazardous Wastes," for which standards are expressed as a treatment method rather than a concentration level, must be treated using the technology or technologies specified in the table entitled "Technology Codes and Description of Technology-Based Standards" in this section.

(b) Any person may submit an application to the Administrator demonstrating that an alternative treatment method can achieve a measure of performance equivalent to that achieved by methods specified in paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section for wastes or specified in Table 1 of § 268.45 for hazardous debris. The applicant must submit information demonstrating that his treatment method is in compliance with federal, state, and local requirements and is protective of human health and the environment. On the basis of such information and any other available information, the Administrator may approve the use of the alternative treatment method if he finds that the alternative treatment method provides a measure of performance equivalent to that achieved by methods specified in paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section for wastes or in Table 1 of § 268.45 for hazardous debris. Any approval must be stated in writing and may contain such provisions and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate. The person to whom such approval is issued must comply with all limitations contained in such a determination.

(c) As an alternative to the otherwise applicable subpart D treatment standards, lab packs are eligible for land disposal provided the following requirements are met:

(1) The lab packs comply with the applicable provisions of 40 CFR 264.316 and 40 CFR 265.316;

(2) The lab pack does not contain any of the wastes listed in Appendix IV to part 268;

(3) The lab packs are incinerated in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O or 40 CFR part 265, subpart O; and

(4) Any incinerator residues from lab packs containing D004, D005, D006, D007, D008, D010, and D011 are treated in compliance with the applicable treatment standards specified for such wastes in subpart D of this part.

(d) Radioactive hazardous mixed wastes are subject to the treatment standards in § 268.40. Where treatment standards are specified for radioactive mixed wastes in the Table of Treatment Standards, those treatment standards will govern. Where there is no specific treatment standard for radioactive mixed waste, the treatment standard for the hazardous waste (as designated by EPA waste code) applies. Hazardous debris containing radioactive waste is subject to the treatment standards specified in § 268.45.
