
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 268 - LAND DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS
##### Subpart C - Prohibitions on Land Disposal
###### § 268.39 Waste specific prohibitions - spent aluminum potliners; reactive; and carbamate wastes.

(a) On July 8, 1996, the wastes specified in 40 CFR 261.32 as EPA Hazardous Waste numbers K156-K159, and K161; and in 40 CFR 261.33 as EPA Hazardous Waste numbers P127, P128, P185, P188-P192, P194, P196-P199, P201-P205, U271, U278-U280, U364, U367, U372, U373, U387, U389, U394, U395, U404, and U409-U411 are prohibited from land disposal. In addition, soil and debris contaminated with these wastes are prohibited from land disposal.

(b) On July 8, 1996, the wastes identified in 40 CFR 261.23 as D003 that are managed in systems other than those whose discharge is regulated under the Clean Water Act (CWA), or that inject in Class I deep wells regulated under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), or that are zero dischargers that engage in CWA-equivalent treatment before ultimate land disposal, are prohibited from land disposal. This prohibition does not apply to unexploded ordnance and other explosive devices which have been the subject of an emergency response. (Such D003 wastes are prohibited unless they meet the treatment standard of DEACT before land disposal (see § 268.40)).

(c) On September 21, 1998, the wastes specified in 40 CFR 261.32 as EPA Hazardous Waste number K088 are prohibited from land disposal. In addition, soil and debris contaminated with these wastes are prohibited from land disposal.

(d) On April 8, 1998, radioactive wastes mixed with K088, K156-K159, K161, P127, P128, P185, P188-P192, P194, P196-P199, P201-P205, U271, U278-U280, U364, U367, U372, U373, U387, U389, U394, U395, U404, and U409-U411 are prohibited from land disposal. In addition, soil and debris contaminated with these radioactive mixed wastes are prohibited from land disposal.

(e) Between July 8, 1996, and April 8, 1998, the wastes included in paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section may be disposed in a landfill or surface impoundment, only if such unit is in compliance with the requirements specified in § 268.5(h)(2).

(f) The requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section do not apply if:

(1) The wastes meet the applicable treatment standards specified in Subpart D of this part;

(2) Persons have been granted an exemption from a prohibition pursuant to a petition under § 268.6, with respect to those wastes and units covered by the petition;

(3) The wastes meet the applicable alternate treatment standards established pursuant to a petition granted under § 268.44;

(4) Persons have been granted an extension to the effective date of a prohibition pursuant to § 268.5, with respect to these wastes covered by the extension.

(g) To determine whether a hazardous waste identified in this section exceeds the applicable treatment standards specified in § 268.40, the initial generator must test a sample of the waste extract or the entire waste, depending on whether the treatment standards are expressed as concentrations in the waste extract or the waste, or the generator may use knowledge of the waste. If the waste contains constituents in excess of the applicable Subpart D levels, the waste is prohibited from land disposal, and all requirements of this part 268 are applicable, except as otherwise specified.
