
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### ยง 270.1 Purpose and scope of the regulations in this part.
####### Procedures for closure equivalency determination.

(6)(i) If a facility owner/operator seeks an equivalency demonstration under ยง 270.1(c)(5), the Regional Administrator will provide the public, through a newspaper notice, the opportunity to submit written comments on the information submitted by the owner/operator within 30 days from the date of the notice. The Regional Administrator will also, in response to a request or at his/her own discretion, hold a public hearing whenever such a hearing might clarify one or more issues concerning the equivalence of the part 265 closure to a part 264 closure. The Regional Administrator will give public notice of the hearing at least 30 days before it occurs. (Public notice of the hearing may be given at the same time as notice of the opportunity for the public to submit written comments, and the two notices may be combined.)

(ii) The Regional Administrator will determine whether the part 265 closure met 264 closure by removal or decontamination requirements within 90 days of its receipt. If the Regional Administrator finds that the closure did not meet the applicable part 264 standards, he/she will provide the owner/operator with a written statement of the reasons why the closure failed to meet part 264 standards. The owner/operator may submit additional information in support of an equivalency demonstration within 30 days after receiving such written statement. The Regional Administrator will review any additional information submitted and make a final determination within 60 days.

(iii) If the Regional Administrator determines that the facility did not close in accordance with part 264 closure by removal standards, the facility is subject to post-closure permitting requirements.
