
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### § 270.1 Purpose and scope of the regulations in this part.
####### Specific exclusions and exemptions.

(2)The following persons are among those who are not required to obtain a RCRA permit:

(i) Generators who accumulate hazardous waste on site in compliance with all of the conditions for exemption provided in 40 CFR 262.14, 262.15, 262.16, and 262.17.

(ii) Farmers who dispose of hazardous waste pesticides from their own use as provided in § 262.70 of this chapter;

(iii) Persons who own or operate facilities solely for the treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste excluded from regulations under this part by 40 CFR 261.4 or 262.14 (very small quantity generator exemption).

(iv) Owners or operators of totally enclosed treatment facilities as defined in 40 CFR 260.10.

(v) Owners and operators of elementary neutralization units or wastewater treatment units as defined in 40 CFR 260.10.

(vi) Transporters storing manifested shipments of hazardous waste in containers meeting the requirements of 40 CFR 262.30 at a transfer facility for a period of ten days or less.

(vii) Persons adding absorbent material to waste in a container (as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter) and persons adding waste to absorbent material in a container, provided that these actions occur at the time waste is first placed in the container; and §§ 264.17(b), 264.171, and 264.172 of this chapter are complied with.

(viii) Universal waste handlers and universal waste transporters (as defined in 40 CFR 260.10) managing the wastes listed below. These handlers are subject to regulation under 40 part CFR 273.

(A) Batteries as described in 40 CFR 273.2;

(B) Pesticides as described in § 273.3 of this chapter;

(C) Mercury-containing equipment as described in § 273.4 of this chapter;

(D) Lamps as described in § 273.5 of this chapter; and

(E) Aerosol cans as described in § 273.6 of this chapter.

(ix) A New York State Utility central collection facility consolidating hazardous waste in accordance with 40 CFR 262.90.

(x) Reverse distributors accumulating potentially creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals, as defined in § 266.500. Reverse distributors are subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 266 subpart P for the accumulation of potentially creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.
