
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### § 270.1 Purpose and scope of the regulations in this part.
####### Closure by removal.

(5)Owners/operators of surface impoundments, land treatment units, and waste piles closing by removal or decontamination under part 265 standards must obtain a post-closure permit unless they can demonstrate to the Regional Administrator that the closure met the standards for closure by removal or decontamination in § 264.228, § 264.280(e), or § 264.258, respectively. The demonstration may be made in the following ways:

(i) If the owner/operator has submitted a part B application for a post-closure permit, the owner/operator may request a determination, based on information contained in the application, that section 264 closure by removal standards were met. If the Regional Administrator believes that § 264 standards were met, he/she will notify the public of this proposed decision, allow for public comment, and reach a final determination according to the procedures in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.

(ii) If the owner/operator has not submitted a part B application for a post-closure permit, the owner/operator may petition the Regional Administrator for a determination that a post-closure permit is not required because the closure met the applicable part 264 closure standards.

(A) The petition must include data demonstrating that closure by removal or decontamination standards were met, or it must demonstrate that the unit closed under State requirements that met or exceeded the applicable 264 closure-by-removal standard.

(B) The Regional Administrator shall approve or deny the petition according to the procedures outlined in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.
