
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### § 270.1 Purpose and scope of the regulations in this part.
####### Specific inclusions.

(1)Owners and operators of certain facilities require RCRA permits as well as permits under other programs for certain aspects of the facility operation. RCRA permits are required for:

(i) Injection wells that dispose of hazardous waste, and associated surface facilities that treat, store or dispose of hazardous waste, (See § 270.64). However, the owner and operator with a UIC permit in a State with an approved or promulgated UIC program, will be deemed to have a RCRA permit for the injection well itself if they comply with the requirements of § 270.60(b) (permit-by-rule for injection wells).

(ii) Treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste at facilities requiring an NPDES permit. However, the owner and operator of a publicly owned treatment works receiving hazardous waste will be deemed to have a RCRA permit for that waste if they comply with the requirements of § 270.60(c) (permit-by-rule for POTWs).

(iii) Barges or vessels that dispose of hazardous waste by ocean disposal and onshore hazardous waste treatment or storage facilities associated with an ocean disposal operation. However, the owner and operator will be deemed to have a RCRA permit for ocean disposal from the barge or vessel itself if they comply with the requirements of § 270.60(a) (permit-by-rule for ocean disposal barges and vessels).
