
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### ยง 270.10 General application requirements.
####### Existing HWM facilities and interim status qualifications.

(e)(1) Owners and operators of existing hazardous waste management facilities or of hazardous waste management facilities in existence on the effective date of statutory or regulatory amendments under the act that render the facility subject to the requirement to have a RCRA permit must submit part A of their permit application no later than:

(i) Six months after the date of publication of regulations which first require them to comply with the standards set forth in 40 CFR part 265 or 266, or

(ii) Thirty days after the date they first become subject to the standards set forth in 40 CFR part 265 or 266, whichever first occurs.

(iii) For generators generating greater than 100 kilograms but less than 1000 kilograms of hazardous waste in a calendar month and treats, stores, or disposes of these wastes on-site, by March 24, 1987.

(2) The Administrator may by publication in theextend the date by which owners and operators of specified classes of existing hazardous waste management facilities must submit part A of their permit application if he finds that (i) there has been substantial confusion as to whether the owners and operators of such facilities were required to file a permit application and (ii) such confusion is attributed to ambiguities in EPA's parts 260, 261, 265, or 266 regulations.

(3) The Administrator may by compliance order issued under section 3008 of RCRA extend the date by which the owner and operator of an existing hazardous waste management facility must submit part A of their permit application.

(4) The owner or operator of an existing hazardous waste management facility may be required to submit part B of their permit application. The State Director may require submission of part B (or equivalent completion of the State RCRA application process) if the State in which the facility is located has received interim or final authorization; if not, the Regional Administrator may require submission of Part B. Any owner or operator shall be allowed at least six months from the date of request to submit part B of the application. Any owner or operator of an existing hazardous waste management facility may voluntarily submit part B of the application at any time. Notwithstanding the above, any owner or operator of an existing hazardous waste management facility must submit a part B permit application in accordance with the dates specified in ยง 270.73. Any owner or operator of a land disposal facility in existence on the effective date of statutory or regulatory amendments under this Act that render the facility subject to the requirement to have a RCRA permit must submit a part B application in accordance with the dates specified in ยง 270.73.

(5) Failure to furnish a requested part B application on time, or to furnish in full the information required by the part B application, is grounds for termination of interim status under part 124.
