
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### § 270.10 General application requirements.
####### Updating permit applications.

(g)(1) If any owner or operator of a hazardous waste management facility has filed Part A of a permit application and has not yet filed part B, the owner or operator shall file an amended part A application:

(i) With the Regional Administrator if the facility is located in a State which has not obtained interim authorization or final authorization, within six months after the promulgation of revised regulations under part 261 listing or identifying additional hazardous wastes, if the facility is treating, storing or disposing of any of those newly listed or identified wastes.

(ii) With the State Director, if the facility is located in a State which has obtained interim authorization or final authorization, no later than the effective date of regulatory provisions listing or designating wastes as hazardous in that State in addition to those listed or designated under the previously approved State program, if the facility is treating, storing or disposing of any of those newly listed or designated wastes; or

(iii) As necessary to comply with provisions of § 270.72 for changes during interim status or with the analogous provisions of a State program approved for final authorization or interim authorization. Revised Part A applications necessary to comply with the provisions of § 270.72 shall be filed with the Regional Administrator if the State in which the facility in question is located does not have interim authorization or final authorization; otherwise it shall be filed with the State Director (if the State has an analogous provision).

(2) The owner or operator of a facility who fails to comply with the updating requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not receive interim status as to the wastes not covered by duly filed part A applications.

(h) Reapplying for a permit. If you have an effective permit and you want to reapply for a new one, you have two options:

(1) You may submit a new application at least 180 days before the expiration date of the effective permit, unless the Director allows a later date; or

(2) If you intend to be covered by a standardized permit, you may submit a Notice of Intent as described in § 270.51(e)(1) at least 180 days before the expiration date of the effective permit, unless the Director allows a later date. The Director may not allow you to submit applications or Notices of Intent later than the expiration date of the existing permit, except as allowed by § 270.51(e)(2).
