
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### ยง 270.13 Contents of part A of the permit application.

Part A of the RCRA application shall include the following information:

(a) The activities conducted by the applicant which require it to obtain a permit under RCRA.

(b) Name, mailing address, and location, including latitude and longitude of the facility for which the application is submitted.

(c) Up to four SIC codes which best reflect the principal products or services provided by the facility.

(d) The operator's name, address, telephone number, ownership status, and status as Federal, State, private, public, or other entity.

(e) The name, address, and phone number of the owner of the facility.

(f) Whether the facility is located on Indian lands.

(g) An indication of whether the facility is new or existing and whether it is a first or revised application.

(h) For existing facilities, (1) a scale drawing of the facility showing the location of all past, present, and future treatment, storage, and disposal areas; and (2) photographs of the facility clearly delineating all existing structures; existing treatment, storage, and disposal areas; and sites of future treatment, storage, and disposal areas.

(i) A description of the processes to be used for treating, storing, and disposing of hazardous waste, and the design capacity of these items.

(j) A specification of the hazardous wastes listed or designated under 40 CFR part 261 to be treated, stored, or disposed of at the facility, an estimate of the quantity of such wastes to be treated, stored, or disposed annually, and a general description of the processes to be used for such wastes.

(k) A listing of all permits or construction approvals received or applied for under any of the following programs:

(1) Hazardous Waste Management program under RCRA.

(2) UIC program under the SWDA.

(3) NPDES program under the CWA.

(4) Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) program under the Clean Air Act.

(5) Nonattainment program under the Clean Air Act.

(6) National Emission Standards for Hazardous Pollutants (NESHAPS) preconstruction approval under the Clean Air Act.

(7) Ocean dumping permits under the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuaries Act.

(8) Dredge or fill permits under section 404 of the CWA.

(9) Other relevant environmental permits, including State permits.

(l) A topographic map (or other map if a topographic map is unavailable) extending one mile beyond the property boundaries of the source, depicting the facility and each of its intake and discharge structures; each of its hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facilities; each well where fluids from the facility are injected underground; and those wells, springs, other surface water bodies, and drinking water wells listed in public records or otherwise known to the applicant withinmile of the facility property boundary.

(m) A brief description of the nature of the business.

(n) For hazardous debris, a description of the debris category(ies) and contaminant category(ies) to be treated, stored, or disposed of at the facility.
