
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### § 270.14 Contents of part B: General requirements.
####### General information requirements.

(b)The following information is required for all HWM facilities, except as § 264.1 provides otherwise:

(1) A general description of the facility.

(2) Chemical and physical analyses of the hazardous waste and hazardous debris to be handled at the facility. At a minimum, these analyses shall contain all the information which must be known to treat, store, or dispose of the wastes properly in accordance with part 264 of this chapter.

(3) A copy of the waste analysis plan required by § 264.13(b) and, if applicable § 264.13(c).

(4) A description of the security procedures and equipment required by § 264.14, or a justification demonstrating the reasons for requesting a waiver of this requirement.

(5) A copy of the general inspection schedule required by § 264.15(b) of this part. Include where applicable, as part of the inspection schedule, specific requirements in §§ 264.174, 264.193(i), 264.195, 264.226, 264.254, 264.273, 264.303, 264.602, 264.1033, 264.1052, 264.1053, 264.1058, 264.1084, 264.1085, 264.1086, and 264.1088 of this part.

(6) A justification of any request for a waiver(s) of the preparedness and prevention requirements of part 264, subpart C.

(7) A copy of the contingency plan required by part 264, subpart D. Note: Include, where applicable, as part of the contingency plan, specific requirements in §§ 264.227, 264.255, and 264.200.

(8) A description of procedures, structures, or equipment used at the facility to:

(i) Prevent hazards in unloading operations (for example, ramps, special forklifts);

(ii) Prevent runoff from hazardous waste handling areas to other areas of the facility or environment, or to prevent flooding (for example, berms, dikes, trenches);

(iii) Prevent contamination of water supplies;

(iv) Mitigate effects of equipment failure and power outages;

(v) Prevent undue exposure of personnel to hazardous waste (for example, protective clothing); and

(vi) Prevent releases to atmosphere.

(9) A description of precautions to prevent accidental ignition or reaction of ignitable, reactive, or incompatible wastes as required to demonstrate compliance with § 264.17 including documentation demonstrating compliance with § 264.17(c).

(10) Traffic pattern, estimated volume (number, types of vehicles) and control (for example, show turns across traffic lanes, and stacking lanes (if appropriate); describe access road surfacing and load bearing capacity; show traffic control signals).

(11) Facility location information;

(i) In order to determine the applicability of the seismic standard [§ 264.18(a)] the owner or operator of a new facility must identify the political jurisdiction (e.g., county, township, or election district) in which the facility is proposed to be located.

(ii) If the facility is proposed to be located in an area listed in appendix VI of part 264, the owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance with the seismic standard. This demonstration may be made using either published geologic data or data obtained from field investigations carried out by the applicant. The information provided must be of such quality to be acceptable to geologists experienced in identifying and evaluating seismic activity. The information submitted must show that either:

(A) No faults which have had displacement in Holocene time are present, or no lineations which suggest the presence of a fault (which have displacement in Holocene time) within 3,000 feet of a facility are present, based on data from:
