
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### ยง 270.14 Contents of part B: General requirements.
####### 4

() If needed to clarify the above data, a reconnaissance based on walking portions of the area within 3,000 feet of the facility, or

(B) If faults (to include lineations) which have had displacement in Holocene time are present within 3,000 feet of a facility, no faults pass within 200 feet of the portions of the facility where treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste will be conducted, based on data from a comprehensive geologic analysis of the site. Unless a site analysis is otherwise conclusive concerning the absence of faults within 200 feet of such portions of the facility data shall be obtained from a subsurface exploration (trenching) of the area within a distance no less than 200 feet from portions of the facility where treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste will be conducted. Such trenching shall be performed in a direction that is perpendicular to known faults (which have had displacement in Holocene time) passing within 3,000 feet of the portions of the facility where treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste will be conducted. Such investigation shall document with supporting maps and other analyses, the location of faults found.

(iii) Owners and operators of all facilities shall provide an identification of whether the facility is located within a 100-year floodplain. This identification must indicate the source of data for such determination and include a copy of the relevant Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) flood map, if used, or the calculations and maps used where an FIA map is not available. Information shall also be provided identifying the 100-year flood level and any other special flooding factors (e.g., wave action) which must be considered in designing, constructing, operating, or maintaining the facility to withstand washout from a 100-year flood.

(iv) Owners and operators of facilities located in the 100-year floodplain must provide the following information:

(A) Engineering analysis to indicate the various hydrodynamic and hydrostatic forces expected to result at the site as consequence of a 100-year flood.

(B) Structural or other engineering studies showing the design of operational units (e.g., tanks, incinerators) and flood protection devices (e.g., floodwalls, dikes) at the facility and how these will prevent washout.

(C) If applicable, and in lieu of paragraphs (b)(11)(iv) (A) and (B) of this section, a detailed description of procedures to be followed to remove hazardous waste to safety before the facility is flooded, including:
