
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### § 270.14 Contents of part B: General requirements.
####### i.e.

(v) A wind rose (, prevailing wind-speed and direction).

(vi) Orientation of the map (north arrow).

(vii) Legal boundaries of the HWM facility site.

(viii) Access control (fences, gates).

(ix) Injection and withdrawal wells both on-site and off-site.

(x) Buildings; treatment, storage, or disposal operations; or other structure (recreation areas, runoff control systems, access and internal roads, storm, sanitary, and process sewerage systems, loading and unloading areas, fire control facilities, etc.)

(xi) Barriers for drainage or flood control.

(xii) Location of operational units within the HWM facility site, where hazardous waste is (or will be) treated, stored, or disposed (include equipment cleanup areas).

(20) Applicants may be required to submit such information as may be necessary to enable the Regional Administrator to carry out his duties under other Federal laws as required in § 270.3 of this part.

(21) For land disposal facilities, if a case-by-case extension has been approved under § 268.5 or a petition has been approved under § 268.6, a copy of the notice of approval for the extension or petition is required.

(22) A summary of the pre-application meeting, along with a list of attendees and their addresses, and copies of any written comments or materials submitted at the meeting, as required under § 124.31(c).
