
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### § 270.15 Specific part B information requirements for containers.

Except as otherwise provided in § 264.170, owners or operators of facilities that store containers of hazardous waste must provide the following additional information:

(a) A description of the containment system to demonstrate compliance with § 264.175. Show at least the following:

(1) Basic design parameters, dimensions, and materials of construction.

(2) How the design promotes drainage or how containers are kept from contact with standing liquids in the containment system.

(3) Capacity of the containment system relative to the number and volume of containers to be stored.

(4) Provisions for preventing or managing run-on.

(5) How accumulated liquids can be analyzed and removed to prevent overflow.

(b) For storage areas that store containers holding wastes that do not contain free liquids, a demonstration of compliance with § 264.175(c), including:

(1) Test procedures and results or other documentation or information to show that the wastes do not contain free liquids; and

(2) A description of how the storage area is designed or operated to drain and remove liquids or how containers are kept from contact with standing liquids.

(c) Sketches, drawings, or data demonstrating compliance with § 264.176 (location of buffer zone and containers holding ignitable or reactive wastes) and § 264.177(c) (location of incompatible wastes), where applicable.

(d) Where incompatible wastes are stored or otherwise managed in containers, a description of the procedures used to ensure compliance with §§ 264.177 (a) and (b), and 264.17 (b) and (c).

(e) Information on air emission control equipment as required in § 270.27.
