
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### § 270.14 Contents of part B: General requirements.
####### 4

() The potential for accidental discharges of the waste during movement.

(v) Existing facilities NOT in compliance with § 264.18(b) shall provide a plan showing how the facility will be brought into compliance and a schedule for compliance.

(12) An outline of both the introductory and continuing training programs by owners or operators to prepare persons to operate or maintain the HWM facility in a safe manner as required to demonstrate compliance with § 264.16. A brief description of how training will be designed to meet actual job tasks in accordance with requirements in § 264.16(a)(3).

(13) A copy of the closure plan and, where applicable, the post-closure plan required by §§ 264.112, 264.118, and 264.197. Include, where applicable, as part of the plans, specific requirements in §§ 264.178, 264.197, 264.228, 264.258, 264.280, 264.310, 264.351, 264.601, and 264.603.

(14) For hazardous waste disposal units that have been closed, documentation that notices required under § 264.119 have been filed.

(15) The most recent closure cost estimate for the facility prepared in accordance with § 264.142 and a copy of the documentation required to demonstrate financial assurance under § 264.143. For a new facility, a copy of the required documentation may be submitted 60 days prior to the initial receipt of hazardous wastes, if that is later than the submission of the part B.

(16) Where applicable, the most recent post-closure cost estimate for the facility prepared in accordance with § 264.144 plus a copy of the documentation required to demonstrate financial assurance under § 264.145. For a new facility, a copy of the required documentation may be submitted 60 days prior to the initial receipt of hazardous wastes, if that is later than the submission of the part B.

(17) Where applicable, a copy of the insurance policy or other documentation which comprises compliance with the requirements of § 264.147. For a new facility, documentation showing the amount of insurance meeting the specification of § 264.147(a) and, if applicable, § 264.147(b), that the owner or operator plans to have in effect before initial receipt of hazardous waste for treatment, storage, or disposal. A request for a variance in the amount of required coverage, for a new or existing facility, may be submitted as specified in § 264.147(c).

(18) Where appropriate, proof of coverage by a State financial mechanism in compliance with § 264.149 or § 264.150.

(19) A topographic map showing a distance of 1,000 feet around the facility at a scale of 2.5 centimeters (1 inch) equal to not more than 61.0 meters (200 feet). Contours must be shown on the map. The contour interval must be sufficient to clearly show the pattern of surface water flow in the vicinity of and from each operational unit of the facility. For example, contours with an interval of 1.5 meters (5 feet), if relief is greater than 6.1 meters (20 feet), or an interval of 0.6 meters (2 feet), if relief is less than 6.1 meters (20 feet). Owners and operators of HWM facilities located in mountainous areas should use large contour intervals to adequately show topographic profiles of facilities. The map shall clearly show the following:

(i) Map scale and date.

(ii) 100-year floodplain area.

(iii) Surface waters including intermittent streams.

(iv) Surrounding land uses (residential, commercial, agricultural, recreational).
