
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### § 270.22 Specific part B information requirements for boilers and industrial furnaces burning hazardous waste.
####### Boilers and industrial furnaces burning low risk waste.

(ii)When seeking to be permitted under the provisions for low risk waste provided by §§ 266.104(a)(5) and 266.109(a) of this chapter that waive the DRE trial burn, the owner or operator must submit:

(A) Documentation that the device is operated in conformance with the requirements of § 266.109(a)(1) of this chapter.

(B) Results of analyses of each waste to be burned, documenting the concentrations of nonmetal compounds listed in appendix VIII of part 261 of this chapter, except for those constituents that would reasonably not be expected to be in the waste. The constituents excluded from analysis must be identified and the basis for their exclusion explained. The analysis must rely on appropriate analytical techniques.

(C) Documentation of hazardous waste firing rates and calculations of reasonable, worst-case emission rates of each constituent identified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section using procedures provided by § 266.109(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter.

(D) Results of emissions dispersion modeling for emissions identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section using modeling procedures prescribed by § 266.106(h) of this chapter. The Director will review the emission modeling conducted by the applicant to determine conformance with these procedures. The Director will either approve the modeling or determine that alternate or supplementary modeling is appropriate.

(E) Documentation that the maximum annual average ground level concentration of each constituent identified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section quantified in conformance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(D) of this section does not exceed the allowable ambient level established in appendices IV or V of part 266. The acceptable ambient concentration for emitted constituents for which a specific Reference Air Concentration has not been established in appendix IV or Risk-Specific Dose has not been established in appendix V is 0.1 micrograms per cubic meter, as noted in the footnote to appendix IV.
