
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### § 270.19 Specific part B information requirements for incinerators.

Except as § 264.340 of this Chapter and § 270.19(e) provide otherwise, owners and operators of facilities that incinerate hazardous waste must fulfill the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section.

(a) When seeking an exemption under § 264.340 (b) or (c) of this chapter (Ignitable, corrosive, or reactive wastes only):

(1) Documentation that the waste is listed as a hazardous waste in part 261, subpart D of this chapter, solely because it is ignitable (Hazard Code I) or corrosive (Hazard Code C) or both; or

(2) Documentation that the waste is listed as a hazardous waste in part 261, subpart D of this chapter, solely because it is reactive (Hazard Code R) for characteristics other than those listed in § 261.23(a) (4) and (5) of this chapter, and will not be burned when other hazardous wastes are present in the combustion zone; or

(3) Documentation that the waste is a hazardous waste solely because it possesses the characteristic of ignitability, corrosivity, or both, as determined by the tests for characteristics of hazardous waste under part 261, subpart C of this chapter; or

(4) Documentation that the waste is a hazardous waste solely because it possesses the reactivity characteristics listed in § 261.23(a) (1), (2), (3), (6), (7), or (8) of this chapter, and that it will not be burned when other hazardous wastes are present in the combustion zone; or

(b) Submit a trial burn plan or the results of a trial burn, including all required determinations, in accordance with § 270.62; or

(c) In lieu of a trial burn, the applicant may submit the following information:

(1) An analysis of each waste or mixture of wastes to be burned including:

(i) Heat value of the waste in the form and composition in which it will be burned.

(ii) Viscosity (if applicable), or description of physical form of the waste.

(iii) An identification of any hazardous organic constituents listed in part 261, appendix VIII, of this chapter, which are present in the waste to be burned, except that the applicant need not analyze for constituents listed in part 261, appendix VIII, of this chapter which would reasonably not be expected to be found in the waste. The constituents excluded from analysis must be identified and the basis for their exclusion stated. The waste analysis must rely on appropriate analytical techniques.

(iv) An approximate quantification of the hazardous constituents identified in the waste, within the precision produced by appropriate analytical methods.

(v) A quantification of those hazardous constituents in the waste which may be designated as POHC's based on data submitted from other trial or operational burns which demonstrate compliance with the performance standards in § 264.343 of this chapter.

(2) A detailed engineering description of the incinerator, including:

(i) Manufacturer's name and model number of incinerator.

(ii) Type of incinerator.

(iii) Linear dimension of incinerator unit including cross sectional area of combustion chamber.

(iv) Description of auxiliary fuel system (type/feed).

(v) Capacity of prime mover.

(vi) Description of automatic waste feed cutoff system(s).

(vii) Stack gas monitoring and pollution control monitoring system.

(viii) Nozzle and burner design.

(ix) Construction materials.

(x) Location and description of temperature, pressure, and flow indicating devices and control devices.

(3) A description and analysis of the waste to be burned compared with the waste for which data from operational or trial burns are provided to support the contention that a trial burn is not needed. The data should include those items listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. This analysis should specify the POHC's which the applicant has identified in the waste for which a permit is sought, and any differences from the POHC's in the waste for which burn data are provided.

(4) The design and operating conditions of the incinerator unit to be used, compared with that for which comparative burn data are available.

(5) A description of the results submitted from any previously conducted trial burn(s) including:

(i) Sampling and analysis techniques used to calculate performance standards in § 264.343 of this chapter,

(ii) Methods and results of monitoring temperatures, waste feed rates, carbon monoxide, and an appropriate indicator of combustion gas velocity (including a statement concerning the precision and accuracy of this measurement),

(6) The expected incinerator operation information to demonstrate compliance with §§ 264.343 and 264.345 of this chapter including:

(i) Expected carbon monoxide (CO) level in the stack exhaust gas.

(ii) Waste feed rate.

(iii) Combustion zone temperature.

(iv) Indication of combustion gas velocity.

(v) Expected stack gas volume, flow rate, and temperature.

(vi) Computed residence time for waste in the combustion zone.

(vii) Expected hydrochloric acid removal efficiency.

(viii) Expected fugitive emissions and their control procedures.

(ix) Proposed waste feed cut-off limits based on the identified significant operating parameters.

(7) Such supplemental information as the Director finds necessary to achieve the purposes of this paragraph.

(8) Waste analysis data, including that submitted in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, sufficient to allow the Director to specify as permit Principal Organic Hazardous Constituents (permit POHC's) those constituents for which destruction and removal efficiencies will be required.

(d) The Director shall approve a permit application without a trial burn if he finds that:

(1) The wastes are sufficiently similar; and

(2) The incinerator units are sufficiently similar, and the data from other trial burns are adequate to specify (under § 264.345 of this chapter) operating conditions that will ensure that the performance standards in § 264.343 of this chapter will be met by the incinerator.
