
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application
###### § 270.24 Specific part B information requirements for process vents.
####### i.e.

(1) Information and data identifying all affected process vents, annual throughput and operating hours of each affected unit, estimated emission rates for each affected vent and for the overall facility (, the total emissions for all affected vents at the facility), and the approximate location within the facility of each affected unit (e.g., identify the hazardous waste management units on a facility plot plan).

(2) Information and data supporting estimates of vent emissions and emission reduction achieved by add-on control devices based on engineering calculations or source tests. For the purpose of determining compliance, estimates of vent emissions and emission reductions must be made using operating parameter values (e.g., temperatures, flow rates, or concentrations) that represent the conditions that exist when the waste management unit is operating at the highest load or capacity level reasonably expected to occur.

(3) Information and data used to determine whether or not a process vent is subject to the requirements of § 264.1032.

(c) Where an owner or operator applies for permission to use a control device other than a thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, flare, boiler, process heater, condenser, or carbon adsorption system to comply with the requirements of § 264.1032, and chooses to use test data to determine the organic removal efficiency or the total organic compound concentration achieved by the control device, a performance test plan as specified in § 264.1035(b)(3).

(d) Documentation of compliance with § 264.1033, including:

(1) A list of all information references and sources used in preparing the documentation.

(2) Records, including the dates, of each compliance test required by § 264.1033(k).

(3) A design analysis, specifications, drawings, schematics, and piping and instrumentation diagrams based on the appropriate sections of "APTI Course 415: Control of Gaseous Emissions" (incorporated by reference as specified in § 270.6) or other engineering texts acceptable to the Regional Administrator that present basic control device information. The design analysis shall address the vent stream characteristics and control device operation parameters as specified in § 264.1035(b)(4)(iii).

(4) A statement signed and dated by the owner or operator certifying that the operating parameters used in the design analysis reasonably represent the conditions that exist when the hazardous waste management unit is or would be operating at the highest load or capacity level reasonably expected to occur.

(5) A statement signed and dated by the owner or operator certifying that the control device is designed to operate at an efficiency of 95 weight percent or greater unless the total organic emission limits of § 264.1032(a) for affected process vents at the facility can be attained by a control device involving vapor recovery at an efficiency less than 95 weight percent.
