
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Permit Conditions
###### ยง 270.30 Conditions applicable to all permits.
####### Twenty-four hour reporting.

(6)(i) The permittee shall report any noncompliance which may endanger health or the environment orally within 24 hours from the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances, including:

(A) Information concerning release of any hazardous waste that may cause an endangerment to public drinking water supplies.

(B) Any information of a release or discharge of hazardous waste or of a fire or explosion from the HWM facility, which could threaten the environment or human health outside the facility.

(ii) The description of the occurrence and its cause shall include:

(A) Name, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator;

(B) Name, address, and telephone number of the facility;

(C) Date, time, and type of incident;

(D) Name and quantity of material(s) involved;

(E) The extent of injuries, if any;

(F) An assessment of actual or potential hazards to the environment and human health outside the facility, where this is applicable; and

(G) Estimated quantity and disposition of recovered material that resulted from the incident.

(iii) A written submission shall also be provided within 5 days of the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances. The written submission shall contain a description of the noncompliance and its cause; the period of noncompliance including exact dates and times, and if the noncompliance has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the noncompliance. The Director may waive the five day written notice requirement in favor of a written report within fifteen days.
