
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Changes to Permit
###### ยง 270.40 Transfer of permits.

(a) A permit may be transferred by the permittee to a new owner or operator only if the permit has been modified or revoked and reissued (under ยง 270.40(b) or ยง 270.41(b)(2)) to identify the new permittee and incorporate such other requirements as may be necessary under the appropriate Act.

(b) Changes in the ownership or operational control of a facility may be made as a Class 1 modification with prior written approval of the Director in accordance with ยง 270.42 or as a routine change with prior approval under 40 CFR 124.213. The new owner or operator must submit a revised permit application no later than 90 days prior to the scheduled change. A written agreement containing a specific date for transfer of permit responsibility between the current and new permittees must also be submitted to the Director. When a transfer of ownership or operational control occurs, the old owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart H (Financial Requirements) until the new owner or operator has demonstrated that he or she is complying with the requirements of that subpart. The new owner or operator must demonstrate compliance with subpart H requirements within six months of the date of the change of ownership or operational control of the facility. Upon demonstration to the Director by the new owner or operator of compliance with subpart H, the Director shall notify the old owner or operator that he or she no longer needs to comply with subpart H as of the date of demonstration.
