
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Changes to Permit
###### § 270.42 Permit modification at the request of the permittee.
####### Class 1 modifications.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the permittee may put into effect Class 1 modifications listed in appendix I of this section under the following conditions:

(i) The permittee must notify the Director concerning the modification by certified mail or other means that establish proof of delivery within 7 calendar days after the change is put into effect. This notice must specify the changes being made to permit conditions or supporting documents referenced by the permit and must explain why they are necessary. Along with the notice, the permittee must provide the applicable information required by §§ 270.13 through 270.21, 270.62, and 270.63.

(ii) The permittee must send a notice of the modification to all persons on the facility mailing list, maintained by the Director in accordance with 40 CFR 124.10(c)(viii), and the appropriate units of State and local government, as specified in 40 CFR 124.10(c)(ix). This notification must be made within 90 calendar days after the change is put into effect. For the Class I modifications that require prior Director approval, the notification must be made within 90 calendar days after the Director approves the request.

(iii) Any person may request the Director to review, and the Director may for cause reject, any Class 1 modification. The Director must inform the permittee by certified mail that a Class 1 modification has been rejected, explaining the reasons for the rejection. If a Class 1 modification has been rejected, the permittee must comply with the original permit conditions.

(2) Class 1 permit modifications identified in appendix I by an asterisk may be made only with the prior written approval of the Director.

(3) For a Class 1 permit modification, the permittee may elect to follow the procedures in § 270.42(b) for Class 2 modifications instead of the Class 1 procedures. The permittee must inform the Director of this decision in the notice required in § 270.42(b)(1).
