
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Changes to Permit
###### § 270.42 Permit modification at the request of the permittee.
####### Class 2 modifications.

(b)(1) For Class 2 modifications, listed in appendix I of this section, the permittee must submit a modification request to the Director that:

(i) Describes the exact change to be made to the permit conditions and supporting documents referenced by the permit;

(ii) Identifies that the modification is a Class 2 modification;

(iii) Explains why the modification is needed; and

(iv) Provides the applicable information required by §§ 270.13 through 270.21, 270.62, and 270.63.

(2) The permittee must send a notice of the modification request to all persons on the facility mailing list maintained by the Director and to the appropriate units of State and local government as specified in 40 CFR 124.10(c)(ix) and must publish this notice in a major local newspaper of general circulation. This notice must be mailed and published within 7 days before or after the date of submission of the modification request, and the permittee must provide to the Director evidence of the mailing and publication. The notice must include:

(i) Announcement of a 60-day comment period, in accordance with § 270.42(b)(5), and the name and address of an Agency contact to whom comments must be sent;

(ii) Announcement of the date, time, and place for a public meeting held in accordance with § 270.42(b)(4);

(iii) Name and telephone number of the permittee's contact person;

(iv) Name and telephone number of an Agency contact person;

(v) Location where copies of the modification request and any supporting documents can be viewed and copied; and

(vi) The following statement: "The permittee's compliance history during the life of the permit being modified is available from the Agency contact person."

(3) The permittee must place a copy of the permit modification request and supporting documents in a location accessible to the public in the vicinity of the permitted facility.

(4) The permittee must hold a public meeting no earlier than 15 days after the publication of the notice required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and no later than 15 days before the close of the 60-day comment period. The meeting must be held to the extent practicable in the vicinity of the permitted facility.

(5) The public shall be provided 60 days to comment on the modification request. The comment period will begin on the date the permittee publishes the notice in the local newspaper. Comments should be submitted to the Agency contact identified in the public notice.

(6)(i) No later than 90 days after receipt of the notification request, the Director must:

(A) Approve the modification request, with or without changes, and modify the permit accordingly;

(B) Deny the request;

(C) Determine that the modification request must follow the procedures in § 270.42(c) for Class 3 modifications for the following reasons:
