
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Changes to Permit
###### ยง 270.42 Permit modification at the request of the permittee.
####### Other modifications.

(d)(1) In the case of modifications not explicitly listed in appendix I of this section, the permittee may submit a Class 3 modification request to the Agency, or he or she may request a determination by the Director that the modification should be reviewed and approved as a Class 1 or Class 2 modification. If the permittee requests that the modification be classified as a Class 1 or 2 modification, he or she must provide the Agency with the necessary information to support the requested classification.

(2) The Director shall make the determination described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section as promptly as practicable. In determining the appropriate class for a specific modification, the Director shall consider the similarity of the modification to other modifications codified in appendix I and the following criteria:

(i) Class 1 modifications apply to minor changes that keep the permit current with routine changes to the facility or its operation. These changes do not substantially alter the permit conditions or reduce the capacity of the facility to protect human health or the environment. In the case of Class 1 modifications, the Director may require prior approval.

(ii) Class 2 modifications apply to changes that are necessary to enable a permittee to respond, in a timely manner, to,

(A) Common variations in the types and quantities of the wastes managed under the facility permit,

(B) Technological advancements, and

(C) Changes necessary to comply with new regulations, where these changes can be implemented without substantially changing design specifications or management practices in the permit.

(iii) Class 3 modifications substantially alter the facility or its operation.
