
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Changes to Permit
###### ยง 270.42 Permit modification at the request of the permittee.
####### Temporary authorizations.

(e)(1) Upon request of the permittee, the Director may, without prior public notice and comment, grant the permittee a temporary authorization in accordance with this subsection. Temporary authorizations must have a term of not more than 180 days.

(2)(i) The permittee may request a temporary authorization for:

(A) Any Class 2 modification meeting the criteria in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, and

(B) Any Class 3 modification that meets the criteria in paragraph (3)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section; or that meets the criteria in paragraphs (3)(ii) (C) through (E) of this section and provides improved management or treatment of a hazardous waste already listed in the facility permit.

(ii) The temporary authorization request must include:

(A) A description of the activities to be conducted under the temporary authorization;

(B) An explanation of why the temporary authorization is necessary; and

(C) Sufficient information to ensure compliance with 40 CFR part 264 standards.

(iii) The permittee must send a notice about the temporary authorization request to all persons on the facility mailing list maintained by the Director and to appropriate units of State and local governments as specified in 40 CFR 124.10(c)(ix). This notification must be made within seven days of submission of the authorization request.

(3) The Director shall approve or deny the temporary authorization as quickly as practical. To issue a temporary authorization, the Director must find:

(i) The authorized activities are in compliance with the standards of 40 CFR part 264.

(ii) The temporary authorization is necessary to achieve one of the following objectives before action is likely to be taken on a modification request:

(A) To facilitate timely implementation of closure or corrective action activities;

(B) To allow treatment or storage in tanks or containers, or in containment buildings in accordance with 40 CFR part 268;

(C) To prevent disruption of ongoing waste management activities;

(D) To enable the permittee to respond to sudden changes in the types or quantities of the wastes managed under the facility permit; or

(E) To facilitate other changes to protect human health and the environment.

(4) A temporary authorization may be reissued for one additional term of up to 180 days provided that the permittee has requested a Class 2 or 3 permit modification for the activity covered in the temporary authorization, and:

(i) The reissued temporary authorization constitutes the Director's decision on a Class 2 permit modification in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(i)(D) or (ii)(D) of this section, or

(ii) The Director determines that the reissued temporary authorization involving a Class 3 permit modification request is warranted to allow the authorized activities to continue while the modification procedures of paragraph (c) of this section are conducted.
