
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Special Forms of Permits
###### § 270.63 Permits for land treatment demonstrations using field test or laboratory analyses.

(a) For the purpose of allowing an owner or operator to meet the treatment demonstration requirements of § 264.272 of this chapter, the Director may issue a treatment demonstration permit. The permit must contain only those requirements necessary to meet the standards in § 264.272(c). The permit may be issued either as a treatment or disposal permit covering only the field test or laboratory analyses, or as a two-phase facility permit covering the field tests, or laboratory analyses, and design, construction operation and maintenance of the land treatment unit.

(1) The Director may issue a two-phase facility permit if he finds that, based on information submitted in part B of the application, substantial, although incomplete or inconclusive, information already exists upon which to base the issuance of a facility permit.

(2) If the Director finds that not enough information exists upon which he can establish permit conditions to attempt to provide for compliance with all of the requirements of subpart M, he must issue a treatment demonstration permit covering only the field test or laboratory analyses.

(b) If the Director finds that a phased permit may be issued, he will establish, as requirements in the first phase of the facility permit, conditions for conducting the field tests or laboratory analyses. These permit conditions will include design and operating parameters (including the duration of the tests or analyses and, in the case of field tests, the horizontal and vertical dimensions of the treatment zone), monitoring procedures, post-demonstration clean-up activities, and any other conditions which the Director finds may be necessary under § 264.272(c). The Director will include conditions in the second phase of the facility permit to attempt to meet all subpart M requirements pertaining to unit design, construction, operation, and maintenance. The Director will establish these conditions in the second phase of the permit based upon the substantial but incomplete or inconclusive information contained in the part B application.

(1) The first phase of the permit will be effective as provided in § 124.15(b) of this chapter.

(2) The second phase of the permit will be effective as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) When the owner or operator who has been issued a two-phase permit has completed the treatment demonstration, he must submit to the Director a certification, signed by a person authorized to sign a permit application or report under § 270.11, that the field tests or laboratory analyses have been carried out in accordance with the conditions specified in phase one of the permit for conducting such tests or analyses. The owner or operator must also submit all data collected during the field tests or laboratory analyses within 90 days of completion of those tests or analyses unless the Director approves a later date.

(d) If the Director determines that the results of the field tests or laboratory analyses meet the requirements of § 264.272 of this chapter, he will modify the second phase of the permit to incorporate any requirements necessary for operation of the facility in compliance with part 264, subpart M, of this chapter, based upon the results of the field tests or laboratory analyses.

(1) This permit modification may proceed under § 270.42, or otherwise will proceed as a modification under § 270.41(a)(2). If such modifications are necessary, the second phase of the permit will become effective only after those modifications have been made.

(2) If no modifications of the second phase of the permit are necessary, the Director will give notice of his final decision to the permit applicant and to each person who submitted written comments on the phased permit or who requested notice of the final decision on the second phase of the permit. The second phase of the permit then will become effective as specified in § 124.15(b).
