
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Special Forms of Permits
###### § 270.62 Hazardous waste incinerator permits.
####### i.e.

When an owner or operator of a hazardous waste incineration unit becomes subject to RCRA permit requirements after October 12, 2005, or when an owner or operator of an existing hazardous waste incineration unit demonstrates compliance with the air emission standards and limitations in part 63, subpart EEE, of this chapter (, by conducting a comprehensive performance test and submitting a Notification of Compliance under §§ 63.1207(j) and 63.1210(d) of this chapter documenting compliance with all applicable requirements of part 63, subpart EEE, of this chapter), the requirements of this section do not apply, except those provisions the Director determines are necessary to ensure compliance with §§ 264.345(a) and 264.345(c) of this chapter if you elect to comply with § 270.235(a)(1)(i) to minimize emissions of toxic compounds from startup, shutdown, and malfunction events. Nevertheless, the Director may apply the provisions of this section, on a case-by-case basis, for purposes of information collection in accordance with §§ 270.10(k), 270.10(l), 270.32(b)(2), and 270.32(b)(3).

(a) For the purposes of determining operational readiness following completion of physical construction, the Director must establish permit conditions, including but not limited to allowable waste feeds and operating conditions, in the permit to a new hazardous waste incinerator. These permit conditions will be effective for the minimum time required to bring the incinerator to a point of operational readiness to conduct a trial burn, not to exceed 720 hours operating time for treatment of hazardous waste. The Director may extend the duration of this operational period once, for up to 720 additional hours, at the request of the applicant when good cause is shown. The permit may be modified to reflect the extension according to § 270.42 of this chapter.

(1) Applicants must submit a statement, with part B of the permit application, which suggests the conditions necessary to operate in compliance with the performance standards of § 264.343 of this chapter during this period. This statement should include, at a minimum, restrictions on waste constituents, waste feed rates and the operating parameters identified in § 264.345 of this chapter.

(2) The Director will review this statement and any other relevant information submitted with part B of the permit application and specify requirements for this period sufficient to meet the performance standards of § 264.343 of this chapter based on his engineering judgment.

(b) For the purposes of determining feasibility of compliance with the performance standards of § 264.343 of this chapter and of determining adequate operating conditions under § 264.345 of this chapter, the Director must establish conditions in the permit for a new hazardous waste incinerator to be effective during the trial burn.

(1) Applicants must propose a trial burn plan, prepared under paragraph (b)(2) of this section with a part B of the permit application.

(2) The trial burn plan must include the following information:

(i) An analysis of each waste or mixture of wastes to be burned which includes:

(A) Heat value of the waste in the form and composition in which it will be burned.

(B) Viscosity (if applicable), or description of the physical form of the waste.

(C) An identification of any hazardous organic constituents listed in part 261, appendix VIII of this chapter, which are present in the waste to be burned, except that the applicant need not analyze for constituents listed in part 261, appendix VIII, of this chapter which would reasonably not be expected to be found in the waste. The constituents excluded from analysis must be identified, and the basis for the exclusion stated. The waste analysis must rely on appropriate analytical techniques.

(D) An approximate quantification of the hazardous constituents identified in the waste, within the precision produced by appropriate analytical methods.

(ii) A detailed engineering description of the incinerator for which the permit is sought including:

(A) Manufacturer's name and model number of incinerator (if available).

(B) Type of incinerator.

(C) Linear dimensions of the incinerator unit including the cross sectional area of combustion chamber.

(D) Description of the auxiliary fuel system (type/feed).

(E) Capacity of prime mover.

(F) Description of automatic waste feed cut-off system(s).

(G) Stack gas monitoring and pollution control equipment.

(H) Nozzle and burner design.

(I) Construction materials.

(J) Location and description of temperature, pressure, and flow indicating and control devices.

(iii) A detailed description of sampling and monitoring procedures, including sampling and monitoring locations in the system, the equipment to be used, sampling and monitoring frequency, and planned analytical procedures for sample analysis.

(iv) A detailed test schedule for each waste for which the trial burn is planned including date(s), duration, quantity of waste to be burned, and other factors relevant to the Director's decision under paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(v) A detailed test protocol, including, for each waste identified, the ranges of temperature, waste feed rate, combustion gas velocity, use of auxiliary fuel, and any other relevant parameters that will be varied to affect the destruction and removal efficiency of the incinerator.

(vi) A description of, and planned operating conditions for, any emission control equipment which will be used.

(vii) Procedures for rapidly stopping waste feed, shutting down the incinerator, and controlling emissions in the event of an equipment malfunction.

(viii) Such other information as the Director reasonably finds necessary to determine whether to approve the trial burn plan in light of the purposes of this paragraph and the criteria in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(3) The Director, in reviewing the trial burn plan, shall evaluate the sufficiency of the information provided and may require the applicant to supplement this information, if necessary, to achieve the purposes of this paragraph.

(4) Based on the waste analysis data in the trial burn plan, the Director will specify as trial Principal Organic Hazardous Constituents (POHCs), those constituents for which destruction and removal efficiencies must be calculated during the trial burn. These trial POHCs will be specified by the Director based on his estimate of the difficulty of incineration of the constituents identified in the waste analysis, their concentration or mass in the waste feed, and, for wastes listed in part 261, subpart D, of this chapter, the hazardous waste organic constituent or constituents identified in appendix VII of that part as the basis for listing.

(5) The Director shall approve a trial burn plan if he finds that:

(i) The trial burn is likely to determine whether the incinerator performance standard required by § 264.343 of this chapter can be met;

(ii) The trial burn itself will not present an imminent hazard to human health or the environment;

(iii) The trial burn will help the Director to determine operating requirements to be specified under § 264.345 of this chapter; and

(iv) The information sought in paragraphs (b)(5) (i) and (ii) of this section cannot reasonably be developed through other means.

(6) The Director must send a notice to all persons on the facility mailing list as set forth in 40 CFR 124.10(c)(1)(ix) and to the appropriate units of State and local government as set forth in 40 CFR 124.10(c)(1)(x) announcing the scheduled commencement and completion dates for the trial burn. The applicant may not commence the trial burn until after the Director has issued such notice.

(i) This notice must be mailed within a reasonable time period before the scheduled trial burn. An additional notice is not required if the trial burn is delayed due to circumstances beyond the control of the facility or the permitting agency.

(ii) This notice must contain:

(A) The name and telephone number of the applicant's contact person;

(B) The name and telephone number of the permitting agency's contact office;

(C) The location where the approved trial burn plan and any supporting documents can be reviewed and copied; and

(D) An expected time period for commencement and completion of the trial burn.

(7) During each approved trial burn (or as soon after the burn as is practicable), the applicant must make the following determinations:

(i) A quantitative analysis of the trial POHCs in the waste feed to the incinerator.

(ii) A quantitative analysis of the exhaust gas for the concentration and mass emissions of the trial POHCs, oxygen (O) and hydrogen chloride (HCl).

(iii) A quantitative analysis of the scrubber water (if any), ash residues, and other residues, for the purpose of estimating the fate of the trial POHCs.

(iv) A computation of destruction and removal efficiency (DRE), in accordance with the DRE formula specified in § 264.343(a) of this chapter.

(v) If the HCl emission rate exceeds 1.8 kilograms of HCl per hour (4 pounds per hour), a computation of HCl removal efficiency in accordance with § 264.343(b) of this chapter.

(vi) A computation of particulate emissions, in accordance with § 264.343(c) of this chapter.

(vii) An identification of sources of fugitive emissions and their means of control.

(viii) A measurement of average, maximum, and minimum temperatures and combustion gas velocity.

(ix) A continuous measurement of carbon monoxide (CO) in the exhaust gas.

(x) Such other information as the Director may specify as necessary to ensure that the trial burn will determine compliance with the performance standards in § 264.343 of this chapter and to establish the operating conditions required by § 264.345 of this chapter as necessary to meet that performance standard.

(8) The applicant must submit to the Director a certification that the trial burn has been carried out in accordance with the approved trial burn plan, and must submit the results of all the determinations required in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. This submission shall be made within 90 days of completion of the trial burn, or later if approved by the Director.

(9) All data collected during any trial burn must be submitted to the Director following the completion of the trial burn.

(10) All submissions required by this paragraph must be certified on behalf of the applicant by the signature of a person authorized to sign a permit application or a report under § 270.11.

(11) Based on the results of the trial burn, the Director shall set the operating requirements in the final permit according to § 264.345 of this chapter. The permit modification shall proceed according to § 270.42.

(c) For the purposes of allowing operation of a new hazardous waste incinerator following completion of the trial burn and prior to final modification of the permit conditions to reflect the trial burn results, the Director may establish permit conditions, including but not limited to allowable waste feeds and operating conditions sufficient to meet the requirements of § 264.345 of this chapter, in the permit to a new hazardous waste incinerator. These permit conditions will be effective for the minimum time required to complete sample analysis, data computation and submission of the trial burn results by the applicant, and modification of the facility permit by the Director.

(1) Applicants must submit a statement, with part B of the permit application, which identifies the conditions necessary to operate in compliance with the performance standards of § 264.343 of this chapter, during this period. This statement should include, at a minimum, restrictions on waste constituents, waste feed rates, and the operating parameters in § 264.345 of this chapter.

(2) The Director will review this statement and any other relevant information submitted with part B of the permit application and specify those requirements for this period most likely to meet the performance standards of § 264.343 of this chapter based on his engineering judgment.

(d) For the purpose of determining feasibility of compliance with the performance standards of § 264.343 of this chapter and of determining adequate operating conditions under § 264.345 of this chapter, the applicant for a permit for an existing hazardous waste incinerator must prepare and submit a trial burn plan and perform a trial burn in accordance with § 270.19(b) and paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(5) and (b)(7) through (b)(10) of this section or, instead, submit other information as specified in § 270.19(c). The Director must announce his or her intention to approve the trial burn plan in accordance with the timing and distribution requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section. The contents of the notice must include: the name and telephone number of a contact person at the facility; the name and telephone number of a contact office at the permitting agency; the location where the trial burn plan and any supporting documents can be reviewed and copied; and a schedule of the activities that are required prior to permit issuance, including the anticipated time schedule for agency approval of the plan and the time period during which the trial burn would be conducted. Applicants submitting information under § 270.19(a) are exempt from compliance with 40 CFR 264.343 and 264.345 and, therefore, are exempt from the requirement to conduct a trial burn. Applicants who submit trial burn plans and receive approval before submission of a permit application must complete the trial burn and submit the results, specified in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, with part B of the permit application. If completion of this process conflicts with the date set for submission of the part B application, the applicant must contact the Director to establish a later date for submission of the part B application or the trial burn results. Trial burn results must be submitted prior to issuance of the permit. When the applicant submits a trial burn plan with part B of the permit application, the Director will specify a time period prior to permit issuance in which the trial burn must be conducted and the results submitted.
