
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Special Forms of Permits
###### § 270.66 Permits for boilers and industrial furnaces burning hazardous waste.
####### Pretrial burn period.

(1)For the period beginning with initial introduction of hazardous waste and ending with initiation of the trial burn, and only for the minimum time required to bring the boiler or industrial furnace to a point of operational readiness to conduct a trial burn, not to exceed 720 hours operating time when burning hazardous waste, the Director must establish in the Pretrial Burn Period of the permit conditions, including but not limited to, allowable hazardous waste feed rates and operating conditions. The Director may extend the duration of this operational period once, for up to 720 additional hours, at the request of the applicant when good cause is shown. The permit may be modified to reflect the extension according to § 270.42.

(i) Applicants must submit a statement, with part B of the permit application, that suggests the conditions necessary to operate in compliance with the standards of §§ 266.104 through 266.107 of this chapter during this period. This statement should include, at a minimum, restrictions on the applicable operating requirements identified in § 266.102(e) of this chapter.

(ii) The Director will review this statement and any other relevant information submitted with part B of the permit application and specify requirements for this period sufficient to meet the performance standards of §§ 266.104 through 266.107 of this chapter based on his/her engineering judgment.
