
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Special Forms of Permits
###### § 270.66 Permits for boilers and industrial furnaces burning hazardous waste.
####### Requirements for trial burn plans.

(c)The trial burn plan must include the following information. The Director, in reviewing the trial burn plan, shall evaluate the sufficiency of the information provided and may require the applicant to supplement this information, if necessary, to achieve the purposes of this paragraph:

(1) An analysis of each feed stream, including hazardous waste, other fuels, and industrial furnace feed stocks, as fired, that includes:

(i) Heating value, levels of antimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, lead, mercury, silver, thallium, total chlorine/chloride, and ash;

(ii) Viscosity or description of the physical form of the feed stream;

(2) An analysis of each hazardous waste, as fired, including:

(i) An identification of any hazardous organic constituents listed in appendix VIII, part 261, of this chapter that are present in the feed stream, except that the applicant need not analyze for constituents listed in appendix VIII that would reasonably not be expected to be found in the hazardous waste. The constituents excluded from analysis must be identified and the basis for this exclusion explained. The waste analysis must be conducted in accordance with appropriate analytical techniques.

(ii) An approximate quantification of the hazardous constituents identified in the hazardous waste, within the precision produced by appropriate analytical methods.

(iii) A description of blending procedures, if applicable, prior to firing the hazardous waste, including a detailed analysis of the hazardous waste prior to blending, an analysis of the material with which the hazardous waste is blended, and blending ratios.

(3) A detailed engineering description of the boiler or industrial furnace, including:

(i) Manufacturer's name and model number of the boiler or industrial furnace;

(ii) Type of boiler or industrial furnace;

(iii) Maximum design capacity in appropriate units;

(iv) Description of the feed system for the hazardous waste, and, as appropriate, other fuels and industrial furnace feedstocks;

(v) Capacity of hazardous waste feed system;

(vi) Description of automatic hazardous waste feed cutoff system(s);

(vii) Description of any air pollution control system; and

(viii) Description of stack gas monitoring and any pollution control monitoring systems.

(4) A detailed description of sampling and monitoring procedures including sampling and monitoring locations in the system, the equipment to be used, sampling and monitoring frequency, and planned analytical procedures for sample analysis.

(5) A detailed test schedule for each hazardous waste for which the trial burn is planned, including date(s), duration, quantity of hazardous waste to be burned, and other factors relevant to the Director's decision under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(6) A detailed test protocol, including, for each hazardous waste identified, the ranges of hazardous waste feed rate, and, as appropriate, the feed rates of other fuels and industrial furnace feedstocks, and any other relevant parameters that may affect the ability of the boiler or industrial furnace to meet the performance standards in §§ 266.104 through 266.107 of this chapter.

(7) A description of, and planned operating conditions for, any emission control equipment that will be used.

(8) Procedures for rapidly stopping the hazardous waste feed and controlling emissions in the event of an equipment malfunction.

(9) Such other information as the Director reasonably finds necessary to determine whether to approve the trial burn plan in light of the purposes of this paragraph and the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
