
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Special Forms of Permits
###### § 270.66 Permits for boilers and industrial furnaces burning hazardous waste.
####### Trial burn procedures.

(d)(1) A trial burn must be conducted to demonstrate conformance with the standards of §§ 266.104 through 266.107 of this chapter under an approved trial burn plan.

(2) The Director shall approve a trial burn plan if he/she finds that:

(i) The trial burn is likely to determine whether the boiler or industrial furnace can meet the performance standards of §§ 266.104 through 266.107 of this chapter;

(ii) The trial burn itself will not present an imminent hazard to human health and the environment;

(iii) The trial burn will help the Director to determine operating requirements to be specified under § 266.102(e) of this chapter; and

(iv) The information sought in the trial burn cannot reasonably be developed through other means.

(3) The Director must send a notice to all persons on the facility mailing list as set forth in 40 CFR 124.10(c)(1)(ix) and to the appropriate units of State and local government as set forth in 40 CFR 124.10(c)(1)(x) announcing the scheduled commencement and completion dates for the trial burn. The applicant may not commence the trial burn until after the Director has issued such notice.

(i) This notice must be mailed within a reasonable time period before the trial burn. An additional notice is not required if the trial burn is delayed due to circumstances beyond the control of the facility or the permitting agency.

(ii) This notice must contain:

(A) The name and telephone number of applicant's contact person;

(B) The name and telephone number of the permitting agency contact office;

(C) The location where the approved trial burn plan and any supporting documents can be reviewed and copied; and

(D) An expected time period for commencement and completion of the trial burn.

(4) The applicant must submit to the Director a certification that the trial burn has been carried out in accordance with the approved trial burn plan, and must submit the results of all the determinations required in paragraph (c) of this section. This submission shall be made within 90 days of completion of the trial burn, or later if approved by the Director.

(5) All data collected during any trial burn must be submitted to the Director following completion of the trial burn.

(6) All submissions required by this paragraph must be certified on behalf of the applicant by the signature of a person authorized to sign a permit application or a report under § 270.11.
