
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Remedial Action Plans (RAPs)
###### General Information
####### § 270.85 When do I need a RAP?

(a) Whenever you treat, store, or dispose of hazardous remediation wastes in a manner that requires a RCRA permit under § 270.1, you must either obtain:

(1) A RCRA permit according to §§ 270.3 through 270.66; or

(2) A RAP according to this subpart.

(b) Treatment units that use combustion of hazardous remediation wastes at a remediation waste management site are not eligible for RAPs under this subpart.

(c) You may obtain a RAP for managing hazardous remediation waste at an already permitted RCRA facility. You must have these RAPs approved as a modification to your existing permit according to the requirements of § 270.41 or § 270.42 instead of the requirements in this subpart. When you submit an application for such a modification, however, the information requirements in § 270.42(a)(1)(i), (b)(1)(iv), and (c)(1)(iv) do not apply; instead, you must submit the information required under § 270.110. When your permit is modified the RAP becomes part of the RCRA permit. Therefore when your permit (including the RAP portion) is modified, revoked and reissued, terminated or when it expires, it will be modified according to the applicable requirements in §§ 270.40 through 270.42, revoked and reissued according to the applicable requirements in §§ 270.41 and 270.43, terminated according to the applicable requirements in § 270.43, and expire according to the applicable requirements in §§ 270.50 and 270.51.
