
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Interim Status
###### ยง 270.72 Changes during interim status.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b), the owner or operator of an interim status facility may make the following changes at the facility:

(1) Treatment, storage, or disposal of new hazardous wastes not previously identified in part A of the permit application (and, in the case of newly listed or identified wastes, addition of the units being used to treat, store, or dispose of the hazardous wastes on the effective date of the listing or identification) if the owner or operator submits a revised part A permit application prior to such treatment, storage, or disposal;

(2) Increases in the design capacity of processes used at the facility if the owner or operator submits a revised part A permit application prior to such a change (along with a justification explaining the need for the change) and the Director approves the changes because:

(i) There is a lack of available treatment, storage, or disposal capacity at other hazardous waste management facilities, or

(ii) The change is necessary to comply with a Federal, State, or local requirement.

(3) Changes in the processes for the treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste or addition of processes if the owner or operator submits a revised part A permit application prior to such change (along with a justification explaining the need for the change) and the Director approves the change because:

(i) The change is necessary to prevent a threat to human health and the environment because of an emergency situation, or

(ii) The change is necessary to comply with a Federal, State, or local requirement.

(4) Changes in the ownership or operational control of a facility if the new owner or operator submits a revised part A permit application no later than 90 days prior to the scheduled change. When a transfer of operational control of a facility occurs, the old owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart H (Financial Requirements), until the new owner or operator has demonstrated to the Director that he is complying with the requirements of that subpart. The new owner or operator must demonstrate compliance with subpart H requirements within six months of the date of the change in ownership or operational control of the facility. Upon demonstration to the Director by the new owner or operator of compliance with subpart H, the Director shall notify the old owner or operator in writing that he no longer needs to comply with subpart H as of the date of demonstration. All other interim status duties are transferred effective immediately upon the date of the change in ownership or operational control of the facility.

(5) Changes made in accordance with an interim status corrective action order issued by EPA under section 3008(h) or other Federal authority, by an authorized State under comparable State authority, or by a court in a judicial action brought by EPA or by an authorized State. Changes under this paragraph are limited to the treatment, storage, or disposal of solid waste from releases that originate within the boundary of the facility.

(6) Addition of newly regulated units for the treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste if the owner or operator submits a revised part A permit application on or before the date on which the unit becomes subject to the new requirements.

(b) Except as specifically allowed under this paragraph, changes listed under paragraph (a) of this section may not be made if they amount to reconstruction of the hazardous waste management facility. Reconstruction occurs when the capital investment in the changes to the facility exceeds 50 percent of the capital cost of a comparable entirely new hazardous waste management facility. If all other requirements are met, the following changes may be made even if they amount to a reconstruction:

(1) Changes made solely for the purposes of complying with the requirements of 40 CFR 265.193 for tanks and ancillary equipment.

(2) If necessary to comply with Federal, State, or local requirements, changes to an existing unit, changes solely involving tanks or containers, or addition of replacement surface impoundments that satisfy the standards of section 3004(o).

(3) Changes that are necessary to allow owners or operators to continue handling newly listed or identified hazardous wastes that have been treated, stored, or disposed of at the facility prior to the effective date of the rule establishing the new listing or identification.

(4) Changes during closure of a facility or of a unit within a facility made in accordance with an approved closure plan.

(5) Changes necessary to comply with an interim status corrective action order issued by EPA under section 3008(h) or other Federal authority, by an authorized State under comparable State authority, or by a court in a judicial proceeding brought by EPA or an authorized State, provided that such changes are limited to the treatment, storage, or disposal of solid waste from releases that originate within the boundary of the facility.

(6) Changes to treat or store, in tanks, containers, or containment buildings, hazardous wastes subject to land disposal restrictions imposed by part 268 of this chapter or RCRA section 3004, provided that such changes are made solely for the purpose of complying with part 268 of this chapter or RCRA section 3004.

(7) Addition of newly regulated units under paragraph (a)(6) of this section.

(8) Changes necessary to comply with standards under 40 CFR part 63, Subpart EEE-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Hazardous Waste Combustors.
