
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Special Forms of Permits
###### § 270.66 Permits for boilers and industrial furnaces burning hazardous waste.
####### Interim status boilers and industrial furnaces.

(g)For the purpose of determining feasibility of compliance with the performance standards of § 266.104 through 266.107 of this chapter and of determining adequate operating conditions under § 266.103 of this chapter, applicants owning or operating existing boilers or industrial furnaces operated under the interim status standards of § 266.103 of this chapter must either prepare and submit a trial burn plan and perform a trial burn in accordance with the requirements of this section or submit other information as specified in § 270.22(a)(6). The Director must announce his or her intention to approve of the trial burn plan in accordance with the timing and distribution requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The contents of the notice must include: the name and telephone number of a contact person at the facility; the name and telephone number of a contact office at the permitting agency; the location where the trial burn plan and any supporting documents can be reviewed and copied; and a schedule of the activities that are required prior to permit issuance, including the anticipated time schedule for agency approval of the plan and the time periods during which the trial burn would be conducted. Applicants who submit a trial burn plan and receive approval before submission of the part B permit application must complete the trial burn and submit the results specified in paragraph (f) of this section with the part B permit application. If completion of this process conflicts with the date set for submission of the part B application, the applicant must contact the Director to establish a later date for submission of the part B application or the trial burn results. If the applicant submits a trial burn plan with part B of the permit application, the trial burn must be conducted and the results submitted within a time period prior to permit issuance to be specified by the Director.
