
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Remedial Action Plans (RAPs)
###### General Information
####### § 270.80 What is a RAP?

(a) A RAP is a special form of RCRA permit that you, as an owner or operator, may obtain, instead of a permit issued under §§ 270.3 through 270.66, to authorize you to treat, store, or dispose of hazardous remediation waste (as defined in § 260.10 of this chapter) at a remediation waste management site. A RAP may only be issued for the area of contamination where the remediation wastes to be managed under the RAP originated, or areas in close proximity to the contaminated area, except as allowed in limited circumstances under § 270.230.

(b) The requirements in §§ 270.3 through 270.66 do not apply to RAPs unless those requirements for traditional RCRA permits are specifically required under §§ 270.80 through 270.230. The definitions in § 270.2 apply to RAPs.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part or part 124 of this chapter, any document that meets the requirements in this section constitutes a RCRA permit under RCRA section 3005(c).

(d) A RAP may be:

(1) A stand-alone document that includes only the information and conditions required by this subpart; or

(2) Part (or parts) of another document that includes information and/or conditions for other activities at the remediation waste management site, in addition to the information and conditions required by this subpart.

(e) If you are treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous remediation wastes as part of a cleanup compelled by Federal or State cleanup authorities, your RAP does not affect your obligations under those authorities in any way.

(f) If you receive a RAP at a facility operating under interim status, the RAP does not terminate your interim status.
