
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Remedial Action Plans (RAPs)
###### Operating Under Your RAP
####### ยง 270.215 How are time periods in the requirements in this subpart and my RAP computed?

(a) Any time period scheduled to begin on the occurrence of an act or event must begin on the day after the act or event. (For example, if your RAP specifies that you must close a staging pile within 180 days after the operating term for that staging pile expires, and the operating term expires on June 1, then June 2 counts as day one of your 180 days, and you would have to complete closure by November 28.)

(b) Any time period scheduled to begin before the occurrence of an act or event must be computed so that the period ends on the day before the act or event. (For example, if you are transferring ownership or operational control of your site, and wish to transfer your RAP, the new owner or operator must submit a revised RAP application no later than 90 days before the scheduled change. Therefore, if you plan to change ownership on January 1, the new owner/operator must submit the revised RAP application no later than October 3, so that the 90th day would be December 31.)

(c) If the final day of any time period falls on a weekend or legal holiday, the time period must be extended to the next working day. (For example, if you wish to appeal the Director's decision to modify your RAP, then you must petition the Environmental Appeals Board within 30 days after the Director has issued the final RAP decision. If the 30th day falls on Sunday, then you may submit your appeal by the Monday after. If the 30th day falls on July 4th, then you may submit your appeal by July 5th.)

(d) Whenever a party or interested person has the right to or is required to act within a prescribed period after the service of notice or other paper upon him by mail, 3 days must be added to the prescribed term. (For example, if you wish to appeal the Director's decision to modify your RAP, then you must petition the Environmental Appeals Board within 30 days after the Director has issued the final RAP decision. However, if the Director notifies you of his decision by mail, then you may have 33 days to petition the Environmental Appeals Board.)
