
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Remedial Action Plans (RAPs)
###### How May My RAP Be Modified, Revoked and Reissued, or Terminated?
####### ยง 270.190 May the decision to approve or deny a modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination of my RAP be administratively appealed?

(a) Any commenter on the modification, revocation and reissuance or termination, or any person who participated in any hearing(s) on these actions, may appeal the Director's decision to approve a modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination of your RAP, according to ยง 270.155. Any person who did not file comments or did not participate in any public hearing(s) on the modification, revocation and reissuance or termination, may petition for administrative review only of the changes from the draft to the final RAP decision.

(b) Any commenter on the modification, revocation and reissuance or termination, or any person who participated in any hearing(s) on these actions, may informally appeal the Director's decision to deny a request for modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination to EPA's Environmental Appeals Board. Any person who did not file comments, or did not participate in any public hearing(s) on the modification, revocation and reissuance or termination may petition for administrative review only of the changes from the draft to the final RAP decision.

(c) The process for informal appeals of RAPs is as follows:

(1) The person appealing the decision must send a letter to the Environmental Appeals Board. The letter must briefly set forth the relevant facts.

(2) The Environmental Appeals Board has 60 days after receiving the letter to act on it.

(3) If the Environmental Appeals Board does not take action on the letter within 60 days after receiving it, the appeal shall be considered denied.

(d) This informal appeal is a prerequisite to seeking judicial review of these EPA actions.
