
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart J - RCRA Standardized Permits for Storage and Treatment Units
###### Information That Must Be Kept at Your Facility
####### § 270.290 What general types of information must I keep at my facility?

You must keep the following information at your facility:

(a) A general description of the facility.

(b) Chemical and physical analyses of the hazardous waste and hazardous debris handled at the facility. At a minimum, these analyses must contain all the information you must know to treat or store the wastes properly under the requirements of 40 CFR part 267.

(c) A copy of the waste analysis plan required by 40 CFR 267.13(b).

(d) A description of the security procedures and equipment required by 40 CFR 267.14.

(e) A copy of the general inspection schedule required by 40 CFR 267.15(b). You must include in the inspection schedule applicable requirements of 40 CFR 267.174, 267.193, 267.195, 264.1033, 264.1052, 264.1053, 264.1058, and 264.1088.

(f) A justification of any modification of the preparedness and prevention requirements of 40 CFR part 267, subpart C (§§ 267.30 to 267.35).

(g) A copy of the contingency plan required by 40 CFR part 267, subpart D.

(h) A description of procedures, structures, or equipment used at the facility to:

(1) Prevent hazards in unloading operations (for example, use ramps, special forklifts),

(2) Prevent runoff from hazardous waste handling areas to other areas of the facility or environment, or to prevent flooding (for example, with berms, dikes, trenches),

(3) Prevent contamination of water supplies,

(4) Mitigate effects of equipment failure and power outages,

(5) Prevent undue exposure of personnel to hazardous waste (for example, requiring protective clothing), and

(6) Prevent releases to atmosphere,

(i) A description of precautions to prevent accidental ignition or reaction of ignitable, reactive, or incompatible wastes as required by 40 CFR 267.17.

(j) Traffic pattern, estimated volume (number, types of vehicles) and control (for example, show turns across traffic lanes, and stacking lanes; describe access road surfacing and load bearing capacity; show traffic control signals).

(k) [Reserved]

(l) An outline of both the introductory and continuing training programs you will use to prepare employees to operate or maintain your facility safely as required by 40 CFR 267.16. A brief description of how training will be designed to meet actual job tasks under 40 CFR 267.16(a)(3) requirements.

(m) A copy of the closure plan required by 40 CFR 267.112. Include, where applicable, as part of the plans, specific requirements in 40 CFR 267.176, 267.201, and 267.1108.

(n) [Reserved]

(o) The most recent closure cost estimate for your facility prepared under 40 CFR 267.142 and a copy of the documentation required to demonstrate financial assurance under 40 CFR 267.143. For a new facility, you may gather the required documentation 60 days before the initial receipt of hazardous wastes.

(p) [Reserved]

(q) Where applicable, a copy of the insurance policy or other documentation that complies with the liability requirements of 40 CFR 267.147. For a new facility, documentation showing the amount of insurance meeting the specification of 40 CFR 267.147(a) that you plan to have in effect before initial receipt of hazardous waste for treatment or storage.

(r) Where appropriate, proof of coverage by a State financial mechanism, as required by 40 CFR 267.149 or 267.150.

(s) A topographic map showing a distance of 1,000 feet around your facility at a scale of 2.5 centimeters (1 inch) equal to not more than 61.0 meters (200 feet). The map must show elevation contours. The contour interval must show the pattern of surface water flow in the vicinity of and from each operational unit of the facility. For example, contours with an interval of 1.5 meters (5 feet), if relief is greater than 6.1 meters (20 feet), or an interval of 0.6 meters (2 feet), if relief is less than 6.1 meters (20 feet). If your facility is in a mountainous area, you should use large contour intervals to adequately show topographic profiles of facilities. The map must clearly show the following:

(1) Map scale and date.

(2) 100-year flood plain area.

(3) Surface waters including intermittent streams.

(4) Surrounding land uses (residential, commercial, agricultural, recreational).
