
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart J - RCRA Standardized Permits for Storage and Treatment Units
###### Information That Must Be Kept at Your Facility
####### ยง 270.305 What tank information must I keep at my facility?

If you use tanks to store or treat hazardous waste, you must keep the following information at your facility:

(a) A written assessment that is reviewed and certified by an independent, qualified, registered professional engineer on the structural integrity and suitability for handling hazardous waste of each tank system, as required under 40 CFR 267.191 and 267.192.

(b) Dimensions and capacity of each tank.

(c) Description of feed systems, safety cutoff, bypass systems, and pressure controls (e.g., vents).

(d) A diagram of piping, instrumentation, and process flow for each tank system.

(e) A description of materials and equipment used to provide external corrosion protection, as required under 40 CFR 267.191.

(f) For new tank systems, a detailed description of how the tank system(s) will be installed in compliance with 40 CFR 267.192 and 267.194.

(g) Detailed plans and description of how the secondary containment system for each tank system is or will be designed, constructed, and operated to meet the requirements of 40 CFR 267.195 and 267.196.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) Description of controls and practices to prevent spills and overflows, as required under 40 CFR 267.198.

(j) For tank systems in which ignitable, reactive, or incompatible wastes are to be stored or treated, a description of how operating procedures and tank system and facility design will achieve compliance with the requirements of 40 CFR 267.202 and 267.203.

(k) Information on air emission control equipment as required by ยง 270.315.
