
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart J - RCRA Standardized Permits for Storage and Treatment Units
###### Information That Must Be Kept at Your Facility
####### ยง 270.310 What equipment information must I keep at my facility?

If your facility has equipment to which 40 CFR part 264, subpart BB applies, you must keep the following information at your facility:

(a) For each piece of equipment to which 40 CFR part 264 subpart BB applies:

(1) Equipment identification number and hazardous waste management unit identification.

(2) Approximate locations within the facility (e.g., identify the hazardous waste management unit on a facility plot plan).

(3) Type of equipment (e.g., a pump or a pipeline valve).

(4) Percent by weight of total organics in the hazardous waste stream at the equipment.

(5) Hazardous waste state at the equipment (e.g., gas/vapor or liquid).

(6) Method of compliance with the standard (e.g., monthly leak detection and repair, or equipped with dual mechanical seals).

(b) For facilities that cannot install a closed-vent system and control device to comply with 40 CFR part 264, subpart BB on the effective date that the facility becomes subject to the subpart BB provisions, an implementation schedule as specified in 40 CFR 264.1033(a)(2).

(c) Documentation that demonstrates compliance with the equipment standards in 40 CFR 264.1052 and 264.1059. This documentation must contain the records required under 40 CFR 264.1064.

(d) Documentation to demonstrate compliance with 40 CFR 264.1060 must include the following information:

(1) A list of all information references and sources used in preparing the documentation.

(2) Records, including the dates, of each compliance test required by 40 CFR 264.1033(j).

(3) A design analysis, specifications, drawings, schematics, and piping and instrumentation diagrams based on the appropriate sections of "Course 415: Control of Gaseous Emissions" (incorporated by reference as specified in 40 CFR 260.11) or other engineering texts acceptable to the Director that present basic control device design information. The design analysis must address the vent stream characteristics and control device operation parameters as specified in 40 CFR 264.1035(b)(4)(iii).

(4) A statement you signed and dated certifying that the operating parameters used in the design analysis reasonably represent the conditions that exist when the hazardous waste management unit is operating at the highest load or capacity level reasonable expected to occur.

(5) A statement you signed and dated certifying that the control device is designed to operate at an efficiency of 95 weight percent or greater.
