
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart J - RCRA Standardized Permits for Storage and Treatment Units
###### Applying for a Standardized Permit
####### § 270.275 What information must I submit to the permitting agency to support my standardized permit application?

The information in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section will be the basis of your standardized permit application. You must submit it to the Director when you submit your Notice of Intent under 40 CFR 124.202(b) requesting coverage under a RCRA standardized permit:

(a) The Part A information described in § 270.13.

(b) A meeting summary and other materials required by 40 CFR 124.31.

(c) Documentation of compliance with the location standards of 40 CFR 267.18 and § 270.14(b)(11).

(d) Information that allows the Director to carry out our obligations under other Federal laws required in § 270.3.

(e) Solid waste management unit information required by § 270.14(d).

(f) A certification meeting the requirements of § 270.280, and an audit of the facility's compliance status with 40 CFR part 267 as required by § 270.280.

(g) A closure plan prepared in accordance with part 267, subpart G.

(h) The most recent closure cost estimate for your facility prepared under § 267.142 and a copy of the documentation required to demonstrate financial assurance under § 267.143. For a new facility, you may gather the required documentation 60 days before the initial receipt of hazardous wastes.

(i) If you manage wastes generated off-site, the waste analysis plan.

(j) If you manage waste generated from off-site, documentation showing that the waste generator and the off-site facility are under the same ownership.
