
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart J - RCRA Standardized Permits for Storage and Treatment Units
###### Information That Must Be Kept at Your Facility
####### ยง 270.300 What container information must I keep at my facility?

If you store or treat hazardous waste in containers, you must keep the following information at your facility:

(a) A description of the containment system to demonstrate compliance with the container storage area provisions of 40 CFR 267.173. This description must show the following:

(1) Basic design parameters, dimensions, and materials of construction.

(2) How the design promotes drainage or how containers are kept from contact with standing liquids in the containment system.

(3) Capacity of the containment system relative to the number and volume of containers to be stored.

(4) Provisions for preventing or managing run-on.

(5) How accumulated liquids can be analyzed and removed to prevent overflow.

(b) For storage areas that store containers holding wastes that do not contain free liquids, a demonstration of compliance with 40 CFR 267.173(c), including:

(1) Test procedures and results or other documentation or information to show that the wastes do not contain free liquids.

(2) A description of how the storage area is designed or operated to drain and remove liquids or how containers are kept from contact with standing liquids.

(c) Sketches, drawings, or data demonstrating compliance with 40 CFR 267.174 (location of buffer zone (15m or 50ft) and containers holding ignitable or reactive wastes) and 40 CFR 267.175(c) (location of incompatible wastes in relation to each other), where applicable.

(d) Where incompatible wastes are stored or otherwise managed in containers, a description of the procedures used to ensure compliance with 40 CFR 267.175(a) and (b), and 267.17(b) and (c).

(e) Information on air emission control equipment as required by ยง 270.315.
