
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 270 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE HAZARDOUS WASTE PERMIT PROGRAM
##### Subpart J - RCRA Standardized Permits for Storage and Treatment Units
###### Applying for a Standardized Permit
####### § 270.280 What are the certification requirements?

You must submit a signed certification based on your audit of your facility's compliance with 40 CFR part 267.

(a) Your certification must read: I certify under penalty of law that:

(1) I have personally examined and am familiar with the report containing the results of an audit conducted of my facility's compliance status with 40 CFR part 267, which supports this certification. Based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for conducting the audit and preparing the report, I believe that my (include paragraph (a)(1)(i) and (ii) this section, whichever applies):

(i) My existing facility complies with all applicable requirements of 40 CFR part 267 and will continue to comply until the expiration of the permit; or

(ii) My facility has been designed, and will be constructed and operated to comply with all applicable requirements of 40 CFR part 267, and will continue to comply until expiration of the permit.

(2) I will make all information that I am required to maintain at my facility by §§ 270.290 through 277.315 readily available for review by the permitting agency and the public; and,

(3) I will continue to make all information required by §§ 270.290 through 277.315 available until the permit expires. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violation.

(b) You must sign this certification following the requirements of § 270.11(a)(1) through (3).

(c) This certification must be based upon an audit that you conduct of your facility's compliance status with 40 CFR part 267. A written audit report, signed and certified as accurate by the auditor, must be submitted to the Director with the 40 CFR 124.202(b) Notice of Intent.
