
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 271 - REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION OF STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Final Authorization
###### ยง 271.8 Memorandum of Agreement with the Regional Administrator.

(a) Any State that seeks to administer a program under this subpart shall submit a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). The Memorandum of Agreement shall be executed by the State Director and the Regional Administrator and shall become effective when approved by the Administrator. In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Memorandum of Agreement may include other terms, conditions, or agreements consistent with this subpart and relevant to the administration and enforcement of the State's regulatory program. The Administrator shall not approve any Memorandum of Agreement which contains provisions which restrict EPA's statutory oversight responsibility.

(b) All Memoranda of Agreement shall include the following:

(1) Provisions for the Regional Administrator to promptly forward to the State Director information obtained prior to program approval in notifications provided under section 3010(a) of RCRA. The Regional Administrator and the State Director shall agree on procedures for the assignment of EPA identification numbers for new generators, transporters, treatment, storage, and disposal facilities.

(2) Provisions specifying the frequency and content of reports, documents and other information which the State is required to submit to EPA. The State shall allow EPA to routinely review State records, reports, and files relevant to the administration and enforcement of the approved program. State reports may be combined with grant reports where appropriate.

(3) Provisions on the State's compliance monitoring and enforcement program, including:

(i) Provisions for coordination of compliance monitoring activities by the State and by EPA. These may specify the basis on which the Regional Administrator will select facilities or activities within the State for EPA inspection. The Regional Administrator will normally notify the State at least 7 days before any such inspection; and

(ii) Procedures to assure coordination of enforcement activities.

(4) Provisions allowing EPA to conduct compliance inspections of all generators, transporters, and HWM facilities in each year for which the State is operating under final authorization. The Regional Administrator and the State Director may agree to limitations on compliance inspections of generators, transporters, and non-major HWM facilities.

(5) No limitations on EPA compliance inspections of generators, transporters, or non-major HWM facilities under paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall restrict EPA's right to inspect any generator, transporter, or HWM facility which it has cause to believe is not in compliance with RCRA; however, before conducting such an inspection, EPA will normally allow the State a reasonable opportunity to conduct a compliance evaluation inspection.

(6) Provisions for the prompt transfer from EPA to the State of pending permit applications and any other information relevant to program operation not already in the possession of the State Director (e.g., support files for permit issuance, compliance reports, etc.). When existing permits are transferred from EPA to the State for administration, the Memorandum of Agreement shall contain provisions specifying a procedure for transferring the administration of these permits. If a State lacks the authority to directly administer permits issued by the Federal government, a procedure may be established to transfer responsibility for these permits.

(7) Provisions specifying classes and categories of permit applications, draft permits, and proposed permits that the State will send to the Regional Administrator for review, comment and, where applicable, objection.

(8) When appropriate, provisions for joint processing of permits by the State and EPA, for facilities or activities which require permits from both EPA and the State under different programs. See ยง 124.4

(9) Provisions for the State Director to promptly forward to EPA copies of draft permits and permit applications for all major HWM facilities for review and comment. The Regional Administrator and the State Director may agree to limitations regarding review of and comment on draft permits and/or permit applications for non-major HWM facilities. The State Director shall supply EPA copies of final permits for all major HWM facilities.

(10) Provisions for the State Director to review all permits issued under State law prior to the date of program approval and modify or revoke and reissue them to require compliance with the requirements of this subpart. The Regional Administrator and the State Director shall establish a time within which this review must take place.

(11) Provisions for modification of the Memorandum of Agreement in accordance with this subpart.

(c) The Memorandum of Agreement, the annual program grant and the State/EPA Agreement should be consistent. If the State/EPA Agreement indicates that a change is needed in the Memorandum of Agreement, the Memorandum of Agreement may be amended through the procedures set forth in this subpart. The State/EPA Agreement may not override the Memorandum of Agreement.
