
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 271 - REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION OF STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Final Authorization
###### ยง 271.3 Availability of final authorization.

(a) Where a State program meets the requirements of section 3006 of RCRA and this subpart it may receive authorization for any provision of its program corresponding to a Federal provision in effect on the date of the State's authorization.

(b) States approved under this subpart are authorized to administer and enforce their hazardous waste program in lieu of the Federal program, except as provided below:

(1) Any requirement or prohibition which is applicable to the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste and which is imposed pursuant to the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 takes effect in each State having a finally authorized State program on the same date as such requirement takes effect in other States. These requirements and prohibitions are identified in ยง 271.1(j).

(2) The requirements and prohibitions in ยง 271.1(j) supersede any less stringent provision of a State program. The Administrator is authorized to carry out each such Federal requirement and prohibition in an authorized State except where, pursuant to section 3006(b) or 3006(g)(2) of RCRA, the State has received final or interim authorization to carry out the particular requirement or prohibition. Violations of Federal requirements and prohibitions effective in authorized States are enforceable under sections 3008, 3013 and 7003 of RCRA.

(3) Until an authorized State program is revised to reflect the amendments made by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 and such program revisions receive final or interim authorization pursuant to section 3006(b) or 3006(g)(2) of RCRA, the Administrator shall have the authority in such State to issue or deny permits or those portions of permits affected by the requirements and prohibitions established by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984.

(4) Any requirement imposed under the authority of the Hazardous Waste Electronic Manifest Establishment Act:

(i) Shall take effect in each State having a finally authorized State program on the same date as such requirement takes effect in other States;

(ii) Shall supersede any less stringent or inconsistent provision of a State program; and

(iii) Shall be carried out by the Administrator in an authorized state except where, pursuant to section 3006(b) of RCRA, the State has received final authorization to carry out the requirement in lieu of the Administrator.

(c) Official State applications for final authorization may be reviewed on the basis of Federal self-implementing statutory provisions that were in effect 12 months prior to the State's submission of its official application (if no implementing regulations have previously been promulgated) and the regulations in 40 CFR parts 124, 260-266, 268, 270 and 271 that were in effect 12 months prior to the State's submission of its official application. To meet this requirement the State may demonstrate that its program qualifies for final authorization pursuant to this subpart or interim authorization under ยง 271.24. States are not precluded from seeking authorization for requirements taking effect less than 12 months prior to the State's submittal of its final application.
