
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 271 - REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION OF STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Final Authorization
###### ยง 271.1 Purpose and scope.

(a) This subpart specifies the procedures EPA will follow in approving, revising, and withdrawing approval of State programs and the requirements State programs must meet to be approved by the Administrator under sections 3006(b), (f) and (h) of RCRA.

(b) State submissions for program approval must be made in accordance with the procedures set out in this subpart.

(c) The substantive provisions which must be included in State programs for them to be approved include requirements for permitting, compliance evaluation, enforcement, public participation, and sharing of information. Many of the requirements for State programs are made applicable to States by cross-referencing other EPA regulations. In particular, many of the provisions of parts 270 and 124 are made applicable to States by the references contained in ยง 271.14.

(d) Upon receipt of a complete submission, EPA will conduct a public hearing, if interest is shown, and determine whether to approve or disapprove the program taking into consideration the requirements of this subpart, the Act and any comments received.

(e) The Administrator shall approve State programs which conform to the applicable requirements of this subpart.

(f) Except as provided in ยง 271.3(a)(3), upon approval of a State permitting program, the Administrator shall suspend the issuance of Federal permits for those activities subject to the approved State program.

(g) Any State program approved by the Administrator shall at all times be conducted in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.

(h) Partial State programs are not allowed for programs operating under RCRA final authorization. However, in many cases States will lack authority to regulate activities on Indian lands. This lack of authority does not impair a State's ability to obtain full program approval in accordance with this subpart, i.e., inability of a State to regulate activities on Indian lands does not constitute a partial program. EPA will administer the program on Indian lands if the State does not seek this authority.

(i) Except as provided in ยง 271.4, nothing in this subpart precludes a State from:

(1) Adopting or enforcing requirements which are more stringent or more extensive than those required under this subpart;

(2) Operating a program with a greater scope of coverage than that required under this subpart. Where an approved State program has a greater scope of coverage than required by Federal law, the additional coverage is not part of the Federally approved program.

(j) Requirements and prohibitions which are applicable to the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste and which are imposed pursuant to the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 (HSWA) include any requirement or prohibition which has taken effect under HSWA, such as:

(1) All regulations specified in Table 1, and

(2) The self-implementing statutory provisions specified in Table 2 that have taken effect.
