
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 271 - REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION OF STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Final Authorization
###### ยง 271.11 Requirements for transporters of hazardous wastes.

(a) The State program must cover all transporters covered by 40 CFR part 263. New transporters must be required to contact the State and obtain an EPA identification number from the State before they accept hazardous waste for transport.

(b) The State shall have authority to require and shall require all transporters to comply with reporting and recordkeeping requirements equivalent to those under 40 CFR 263.22. States must require that transporters keep these records at least 3 years. States that choose to receive electronic documents must include the requirements of 40 CFR Part 3-(Electronic reporting) in their Program (except that states that choose to receive electronic manifests and/or permit the use of electronic manifests must comply with any applicable requirements for e-manifest in this section of this section).

(c)(1) The state must require the transporter to carry the manifest forms (EPA Forms 8700-22 and 8700-22A) during transport, or, where the electronic manifest is used and the U. S. Department of Transportation's Hazardous Materials Regulations, 49 CFR parts 171-180, require a paper shipping document on the transport vehicle, to carry one printed copy of the electronic manifest during transport, except in the case of shipments by rail or water, for which transporters may carry a shipping paper as specified in 40 CFR 263.20(e) and (f).

(2) The State must require the transporter to deliver waste only to the facility designated on the manifest, which in the case of return shipments of rejected wastes or regulated container residues, may also include the original generator of the waste shipment.

(3) The State program must provide requirements for shipments by rail or water equivalent to those under 40 CFR 263.20(e) and (f).
