
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 271 - REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION OF STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Final Authorization
###### § 271.21 Procedures for revision of State programs.
####### i.e.

(2) Federal program changes are defined for purposes of this section as promulgated amendments to 40 CFR parts 124, 270, 260-266, or 268 and any self-implementing statutory provisions (, those taking effect without prior implementing regulations) which are listed as State program requirements in this subpart. States must modify their programs to reflect Federal program changes and must subsequently submit the modifications to EPA for approval.

(i) For Federal program changes occurring before July 1, 1984, the State program must be modified within one year of the date of the Federal program change.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) (iii) and (iv) of this section, for Federal program changes occurring on or after July 1, 1984, the State program must be modified by July 1 of each year to reflect all changes to the Federal program occurring during the 12 months preceding the previous July 1. (For example, States must modify their programs by July 1, 1986 to reflect all changes from July 1, 1984 to June 30, 1985.)

(iii) For Federal program changes identified in § 271.1(j) that occur between November 8, 1984 and June 30, 1987 (inclusive), the State program must be modified by July 1, 1989.

(iv) For Federal program changes identified in § 271.1(j) that occur between July 1, 1987 and June 30, 1990 (inclusive), the State program must be modified by July 1, 1991.

(v) States may have an additional year to modify their programs for those changes to the Federal program identified in paragraphs (e) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section which necessitate a State statutory amendment.

(3) The deadlines in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (v) may be extended by the Regional Administrator upon an adequate demonstration by a State that it has made a good faith effort to meet these deadlines and that its legislative or rulemaking procedures render the State unable to do so. No such extension shall exceed six months.

(4)(i) Within 30 days of the completion of the State program modification the State must submit to EPA a copy of the program change and a schedule indicating when the State intends to seek approval of the change. Such schedule shall not exceed the dates provided for in paragraph (e)(4)(ii).

(ii) Within 60 days of the appropriate deadline in paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section, the State must submit to EPA the documentation described in paragraph (b) of this section to revise its program.

(f) A State must modify its program to comply with any Federal program changes which occur prior to the day that final authorization is received, except for those changes that the State has already received authorization for pursuant to § 271.3(f). Such State program modifications must be completed and submitted by the deadlines specified in paragraph (e) of this section or by the date of final authorization, whichever is later.

(g)(1) States that are unable to modify their programs by the deadlines in paragraph (e) may be placed on a schedule of compliance to adopt the program revision(s) provided that:

(i) The State has received an extension of the program modification deadline under paragraph (e)(3) and has made diligent efforts to revise its program during that period of time,

(ii) The State has made progress in adopting the program modifications,

(iii) The State submits a proposed timetable for the requisite regulatory and/or statutory revisions by the deadline granted under paragraph (e)(3),

(iv) The schedule of compliance for program revisions does not exceed one year from the extended program modification deadline under paragraph (e)(3), and

(v) The schedule of compliance is published in the

(2) If a State fails to comply with the schedule of compliance, the Administrator may initiate program withdrawal procedures pursuant to §§ 271.22 and 271.23.
