
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 271 - REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION OF STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Final Authorization
###### ยง 271.21 Procedures for revision of State programs.
####### Abbreviated authorization revisions.

(h)This abbreviated procedure applies to State Program revisions for the Federal rulemakings listed in Table 1 of this section. The abbreviated procedures are as follows:

(1) An application for a revision of a State's program for the rulemakings listed in Table 1 of this section shall consist of:

(i) A statement from the State that its laws and regulations provide authority that is equivalent to, and no less stringent than, the designated minor rules or parts of rules specified in Table 1 of this section, and which includes references to the specific statutes, administrative regulations and where appropriate, judicial decisions. State statutes and regulations cited in the statement shall be lawfully adopted at the time the statement is signed and fully effective by the time the program revisions are approved; and

(ii) Copies of all applicable State statutes and regulations.

(2) Within 30 days of receipt by EPA of a State's application for final authorization to implement a rule specified in Table 1 of this section, if the Administrator determines that the application is not complete or contains errors, the Administrator shall notify the State. This notice will include a concise statement of the deficiencies which form the basis for this determination. The State will address all deficiencies and resubmit the application to EPA for review.

(3) For purposes of this section an application is considered incomplete when:

(i) Copies of applicable statutes or regulations were not included;

(ii) The statutes or regulations relied on by the State to implement the program revisions are not lawfully adopted at the time the statement is signed or fully effective by the time the program revisions are approved;

(iii) In the statement, the citations to the specific statutes, administrative regulations and where appropriate, judicial decisions are not included or incomplete; or

(iv) The State is not authorized to implement the prerequisite RCRA rules as specified in paragraph (h)(5) of this section.

(4) Within 60 days after receipt of a complete final application from a State for final authorization to implement a rule or rules specified in Table 1 of this section, the Administrator shall publish a notice of the decision to grant final authorization in accordance with the procedures for immediate final publication in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(5) To be eligible to use the procedure in this paragraph (h), a State must be authorized for the provisions which the rule listed in Table 1 to this section amends.
