
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 271 - REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION OF STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Final Authorization
###### ยง 271.19 EPA review of State permits.

(a) The Regional Administrator may comment on permit applications and draft permits as provided in the Memorandum of Agreement under ยง 271.8.

(b) Where EPA indicates, in a comment, that issuance of the permit would be inconsistent with the approved State program, EPA shall include in the comment:

(1) A statement of the reasons for the comment (including the section of RCRA or regulations promulgated thereunder that support the comment); and

(2) The actions that should be taken by the State Director in order to address the comments (including the conditions which the permit would include if it were issued by the Regional Administrator).

(c) A copy of any comment shall be sent to the permit applicant by the Regional Administrator.

(d) The Regional Administrator shall withdraw such a comment when satisfied that the State has met or refuted his or her concerns.

(e) Under section 3008(a)(3) of RCRA, EPA may terminate a State-issued permit or bring an enforcement action in accordance with the procedures of 40 CFR part 22 in the case of a violation of a State program requirement. In exercising these authorities, EPA will observe the following conditions:

(1) The Regional Administrator may take action under section 3008(a)(3) of RCRA against a holder of a State-issued permit at any time on the ground that the permittee is not complying with a condition of that permit.

(2) The Regional Administrator may take action under section 3008(a)(3) of RCRA against a holder of a State-issued permit at any time on the ground that the permittee is not complying with a condition that the Regional Administrator in commenting on the permit application or draft permit stated was necessary to implement approved State program requirements, whether or not that condition was included in the final permit.

(3) The Regional Administrator may not take action under section 3008(a)(3) of RCRA against a holder of a State-issued permit on the ground that the permittee is not complying with a condition necessary to implement approved State program requirements unless the Regional Administrator stated in commenting on the permit application or draft permit that the condition was necessary.

(4) The Regional Administrator may take action under section 7003 of RCRA against a permit holder at any time whether or not the permit holder is complying with permit conditions.

(f) Notwithstanding the above provisions, EPA shall issue permits, or portions of permits, to facilities in authorized States as necessary to implement the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984.
