
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 271 - REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION OF STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Final Authorization
###### ยง 271.21 Procedures for revision of State programs.

(a) Either EPA or the approved State may initiate program revision. Program revision may be necessary when the controlling Federal or State statutory or regulatory authority is modified or supplemented. The State shall keep EPA fully informed of any proposed modifications to its basic statutory or regulatory authority, its forms, procedures, or priorities.

(b) Revision of a State program shall be accomplished as follows:

(1) The State shall submit a modified program description, Attorney General's statement, Memorandum of Agreement, or such other documents as EPA determines to be necessary under the circumstances.

(2) The Administrator shall approve or disapprove program revisions based on the requirements of this part and of the Act. In approving or disapproving program revisions, the Administrator shall follow the procedures of paragraph (b)(3) or (4) of this section.

(3) The procedures for an immediate final publication of the Administrator's decision are as follows:

(i) The Administrator shall issue public notice of his approval or disapproval of a State program revision:

(A) In the

(B) In enough of the largest newspapers in the State to attract Statewide attention; and

(C) By mailing to persons on the State agency mailing list and to any other persons whom the agency has reason to believe are interested.

(ii) The public notice shall summarize the State program revision, indicate whether EPA intends to approve or disapprove the revision and provide for an opportunity to comment for a period of 30 days.

(iii) Approval or disapproval of a State program revision shall become effective 60 days after the date of publication in thein accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, unless an adverse comment pertaining to the State revision discussed in the notice is received by the end of the comment period. If an adverse comment is received the Administrator shall so notify the State and shall, within 60 days after the date of publication, publish in theeither:

(A) A withdrawal of the immediate final decision; or

(B) A notice containing a response to comments and which either affirms that the immediate final decision takes effect or reverses the decision.

(4) The procedures for proposed and final publication of the Administrator's decision are as follows:

(i) The Administrator shall issue public notice of his proposed approval or disapproval of a State program revision:

(A) In the

(B) In enough of the largest newspapers in the State to attract Statewide attention; and

(C) By mailing to persons on the State agency mailing list and to any other persons whom the agency has reason to believe are interested.

(ii) The public notice shall summarize the State program revision, indicate whether EPA intends to approve or disapprove the revision and provide for an opportunity to comment for a period of at least 30 days.

(iii) A State program revision shall become effective when the Administrator's final approval is published in the

(c) States with approved programs shall notify EPA whenever they propose to transfer all or part of any program from the approved State agency to any other State agency, and shall identify any new division of responsibilities among the agencies involved. The new agency is not authorized to administer the program until approved by the Administrator under paragraph (b) of this section. Organizational charts required under ยง 271.6(b) shall be revised and resubmitted.

(d) Whenever the Administrator has reason to believe that circumstances have changed with respect to a State program, he may request, and the State shall provide, a supplemental Attorney General's statement, program description, or such other documents or information as are necessary.

(e)(1) As the Federal program changes, authorized State programs must be revised to remain in compliance with this subpart.
