
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 272 - APPROVED STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart P - Indiana
###### ยง 272.751 Indiana state-administered program: Final authorization.
####### Unauthorized State provisions:

(4)Although the Federal rules listed in the following table have been adopted by the State and have been included in the materials incorporated by reference in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, EPA has not authorized the State for these rules at this time. While they may be enforceable under State law, they are not enforceable under RCRA:

(i) Additionally Indiana has adopted but is not authorized to implement the HSWA rules that are listed the following table. EPA will continue to implement the Federal HSWA requirements for which Indiana is not authorized until the State receives specific authorization for those requirements:

(ii) Some regulations listed in the table in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section are predominantly HSWA authority but contain provisions that are not HSWA authority. EPA will not enforce these non-HSWA provisions. The affected rules are as follows:

(A) Burning of Hazardous Waste in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces (BIF), including BIF (February 21, 1991);

(B) Corrections and Technical Amendments I (July 17, 1991);

(C) Technical Amendments II (August 27, 1991);

(D) Technical Amendments III (August 25, 1992);

(E) Amendment IV (September 30, 1992);

(F) Requirements for Preparation, Adoption, and Submittal of Implementation Plans (July 20, 1993); and

(G) BIF (November 9, 1993).

(iii) EPA will not enforce BIF rules for Sludge Dryers, Infrared Incinerators, Plasma Arc Incinerators, and Carbon Regeneration Units, until Indiana is authorized for these rules. Petroleum Refining Process (August 6, 1998, as amended October 9, 1998) 40 CFR 261.3, 261.4, and 261.6 are non-HSWA provisions. Standards Applicable to Owners and Operators of Closed/Closing Facilities (October 22, 1998) 40 CFR 264.90(e), 265.110(c), 265.118(c)(4), 265.121 (except ยง 265.121(a)(2)), 270.1, 270.14(a), and 270.28 are non-HSWA provisions. Hazardous Remediation Waste Management Requirements (HWIR Media) (November 30, 1998) 40 CFR 261.4(g), 264.1(j)(1-13), 264.73(b)(17), 270.2, 270.11(d), 270.68, 270.73(a), and 270.79 through 270.230 (40 CFR part 270, subpart H) except ยง 270.230(e)(1) are non-HSWA provisions. Until Indiana becomes authorized for these rules, EPA will not enforce the non-HSWA provisions.
