
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 272 - APPROVED STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart X - Michigan
###### ยง 272.1150 State authorization.
####### et seq.

(a) The State of Michigan is authorized to administer and enforce a hazardous waste management program in lieu of the Federal program under subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), 42 U.S.C. 6921subject to the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 (HSWA) (Public Law 98-616, November 8, 1984), 42 U.S.C. 6926 (c) and (g). The Federal program for which a State may receive authorization is defined in 40 CFR part 271. The State's program, as administered by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6926(b) and part 271 of this chapter. EPA's approval of Michigan's base program was effective on October 30, 1986 (see 51 FR 36804). EPA's approval of the revisions to Michigan's base program was effective on January 23, 1990 (see 54 FR 48608) and RCRA Cluster III authorization effective June 24, 1991 (see 56 FR 18517).

(b) Michigan is authorized to implement certain HSWA requirements in lieu of EPA. EPA has explicitly indicated its intent to allow such action in anotice granting Michigan authorization and RCRA Cluster III authorization effective June 24, 1991 (see 56 FR 18517).

(c) Michigan has primary responsibility for enforcing its hazardous waste program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its enforcement authorities under sections 3007, 3008, 3013, and 7003 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6927, 6928, 6934, and 6973, as well as under other Federal laws and regulations.

(d) Michigan must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal Subtitle C program in accordance with section 3006(b) of RCRA and 40 CFR part 271, subpart A. Michigan must seek final authorization for all program revisions, pursuant to section 3006(b) of RCRA but, on a temporary basis, may seek interim authorization for revisions required by HSWA, pursuant to section 3006(g) of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6926(g). If Michigan obtains final authorization for the revised requirements pursuant to section 3006(g), the newly authorized provisions will be listed in ยง 272.1151 of this subpart. If Michigan obtains interim authorization for the revised requirements pursuant to section 3006(g), the newly authorized provisions will be listed in ยง 272.1152.
