
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 272 - APPROVED STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart HH - New York
###### ยง 272.1651 New York State-administered program: Final authorization.
####### Statutes and regulations that are broader in scope.

(3)The following statutory and regulatory provisions are broader in scope than the Federal program, are not part of the authorized program, are not incorporated by reference and are not federally enforceable:

(i) Environmental Conservation Laws (ECL), 1997 Replacement Volume, as revised by the 2004 Cumulative Pocket Part: Sections 27-0301; 27-0303; 27-0305; 27-0307; 27-0909(5); 27-0923; 27-0925 and 27-0926.

(ii) Environmental Conservation Laws (ECL), 1997 Replacement Volume, as revised by the 2006 Cumulative Pocket Part: Section 27-1109(6).

(iii) The following New York provisions are broader in scope because the State implements a Household Hazardous Waste program, whereas the Federal program excludes household waste from regulation as hazardous waste at 40 CFR 261.4(b)(1): Title 6, New York Codes, Rules and Regulations (6 NYCRR), as amended effective through September 5, 2006: Sections 370.2(b)(92) "Household hazardous waste"; 370.2(b)(93) "Household hazardous waste collection facility"; and 373-4.

(iv) At 371.4(c), New York retains K064, K065, K066, K090 and K091 as hazardous wastes while EPA has removed them from the table at 40 CFR 261.32 and no longer regulates them as hazardous wastes (64 FR 56469; October 20, 1999).

(v) In the following provisions of New York's hazardous waste regulations, the State cross-references Part 364 "Waste Transporter Permits" requirements, which sets forth transporter requirements regarding permit and financial liability requirements: 372.2(b)(5)(ii), 372.3(a)(1), 372.3(a)(4), 372.3(b)(6)(iv), 372.3(d)(3), 373-2.5(b)(3)(ii)(d) and (e), 373-1.7(h)(3), 373-3.5(b)(3)(ii)(d) and (e), 374-3.4(a)(2), and Appendix 30 Instructions for Generators/Item 8. These provisions referencing the Part 364 transporter permit and financial liability requirements are broader in scope than the Federal program.

(vi) New York did not adopt an analog to 40 CFR 261.4(g) that excludes certain dredged materials from the State definition of hazardous waste. Instead, the State subjects these materials to full regulation as hazardous wastes.

(vii) New York State regulations do not incorporate the Mineral Processing Secondary Materials Exclusion at 40 CFR 261.4(a)(17) and the related changes affecting 40 CFR 261.2(c)(3) and (c)(4)/Table, and 40 CFR 261.2(e)(1)(iii). Since New York did not adopt the exclusion at 40 CFR 261.4(a)(17) the State has a broader in scope program because the effect is to include materials that are not considered solid waste by EPA.

(viii) The following New York provisions are broader in scope because they include requirements associated with the regulation of PCB waste as a state-only hazardous waste: 371.4(e), 372.1(e)(9), 373-1.1(d)(1)(x), 374-2.2(a)(9), 374-2.2(b) Table 1 and Footnote 2, 374-2.5(e)(4), 374-2.6(d)(4), 374-2.7(d)(4), 376.1(g)(1)(i), and 376.4(f). PCB wastes are regulated under the Federal Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) at 40 CFR part 761 rather than under the Federal RCRA program.

(ix) The New York provision at 373-1.4(c) is broader in scope because it includes siting certificate requirements which are not part of the Federal program.

(x) The New York provision at 373-2.15(a)(2) is broader in scope because it subjects incinerators to not just limited portions of the State's Air regulations in the same manner as the Federal rules, but entire programs including air program-specific permits and registrations.

(xi) The New York provisions at 374-2.5(a)(2) and 374-2.6(a)(2) cross-reference 360-14.1(a)(4), which sets forth transfer facility and processor/re-refiner requirements for these types of facilities co-located at hazardous waste management facilities. These provisions referencing the Part 360 requirements are broader in scope than the Federal program because section 360-14.1(a)(4) may require used oil transfer facilities and processors/re-refiners managing non-hazardous used oil to be subject to State-only Part 360 provisions including permit requirements. The Federal program does not have an analogous permitting requirement for these types of facilities.
