
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 272 - APPROVED STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart SS - Texas
###### ยง 272.2201 Texas State-administered program: Final authorization.
####### Unauthorized State amendments and provisions.,i.e.,,Addendum to the EPA-Approved Texas Regulatory and Statutory Requirements Applicable to the Hazardous Waste Management Program, December, 2015.

(4)(i) The following authorized provisions of the Texas regulations include amendments published in the Texas Register that are not approved by EPA. Such unauthorized amendments are not part of the State's authorized program and are, therefore, not Federally enforceable. Thus, notwithstanding the language in the Texas hazardous waste regulations incorporated by reference at paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, EPA will enforce the State provisions that are actually authorized by EPA. The effective dates of the State's authorized provisions are listed in the Table below. The actual State regulatory text authorized by EPA (without the unauthorized amendments) is available as a separate document,Copies of the document can be obtained from EPA Region 6, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270.

(ii) Texas has partially or fully adopted, but is not authorized to implement, the Federal rules that are listed in the following table. The EPA will continue to implement the Federal HSWA requirements for which Texas is not authorized until the State receives specific authorization for those requirements. The EPA will not enforce the non-HSWA Federal rules although they may be enforceable under State law. For those Federal rules that contain both HSWA and non-HSWA requirements, the EPA will enforce only the HSWA portions of the rules.

(iii) The Federal rules listed in the table below are not delegable to States. Texas has adopted these provisions and left the authority to the EPA for implementation and enforcement.

(iv) Texas has chosen not to adopt, and is not authorized to implement, the following optional Federal rules:
