
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 272 - APPROVED STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart TT - Utah
###### ยง 272.2251 Utah State-Administered program: Final authorization.
####### Unauthorized State amendments.,Utah State Bulletin

(5)The following authorized provisions of the Utah regulations include amendments published in thethat are not approved by EPA. Such unauthorized amendments are not part of the State's authorized program and are, therefore, not Federally enforceable. Thus, notwithstanding the language in the Utah hazardous waste regulations incorporated by reference at ยง 272.2251(b)(1), EPA will only enforce the authorized State provisions with the effective dates indicated in the table below. The actual State regulatory text authorized by EPA for the listed provisions is available as a separate document, Addendum to the EPA-Approved Utah Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Hazardous Waste Management Program, March 1999. Copies of the document can be obtained from U.S. EPA Region VIII, 999 18th St., Suite 500, Denver, Colorado 80202-2466, phone (303) 312-6139.

At R315-3-23(f)(3)(iv), Utah's analog to 40 CFR 270.33(b)(3)(iv), the State has a printing error in its regulations. The State will fix this error in its next rule making. For the codification, the authorized version of the provision will also be included in the Addendum to the EPA-Approved Utah Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Hazardous Waste Management Program, March 1999.
