
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 272 - APPROVED STATE HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart ZZ - Wyoming
###### ยง 272.2551 Wyoming State-administered program: Final authorization.
####### Unauthorized state amendments.

(4)(i) Wyoming has adopted but is not authorized for the following Federal final rules:

(A) Imports and Exports of Hazardous Waste: Implementation of OECD Council Division [61 FR 16290, 04/12/96] (HSWA-Not delegable to States);

(B) Hazardous Waste Combustors; Revised Standards [63 FR 33782, 6/19/98] (Non-HSWA-Vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Cir. No. 98-1379 and 08-1144; June 27, 2014);

(C) Exclusion of Oil-Bearing Secondary Materials Processed in a Gasification System to Produce Synthesis Gas [73 FR 52, 1/2/08] (Non-HSWA-Vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Cir. No. 98-1379 and 08-1144; June 27, 2014);

(D) OECD Requirements; Export Shipments of Spent Lead Acid Batteries [75 FR 1236, 1/8/10] (Non-HSWA-Not delegable to States);

(E) Withdrawal of the Emission Comparable Fuel Exclusion [75 FR 33712, 6/15/10] (Non-HSWA-Vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Cir. No. 98-1379 and 08-1144; June 27, 2014); and

(F) Revisions to the Definition of Solid Waste [73 FR 64668, 10/30/08].

(ii) Those Federal rules written under RCRA provisions that predate HSWA (non-HSWA) which the State has adopted, but for which it is not authorized, are not federally enforceable. In contrast, the EPA will continue to enforce the Federal HSWA standards for which Wyoming is not authorized until the State receives specific authorization from EPA.
