
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 273 - STANDARDS FOR UNIVERSAL WASTE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - Standards for Large Quantity Handlers of Universal Waste
###### ยง 273.33 Waste management.
####### Universal waste batteries.

(a)A large quantity handler of universal waste must manage universal waste batteries in a way that prevents releases of any universal waste or component of a universal waste to the environment, as follows:

(1) A large quantity handler of universal waste must contain any universal waste battery that shows evidence of leakage, spillage, or damage that could cause leakage under reasonably foreseeable conditions in a container. The container must be closed, structurally sound, compatible with the contents of the battery, and must lack evidence of leakage, spillage, or damage that could cause leakage under reasonably foreseeable conditions.

(2) A large quantity handler of universal waste may conduct the following activities as long as the casing of each individual battery cell is not breached and remains intact and closed (except that cells may be opened to remove electrolyte but must be immediately closed after removal):

(i) Sorting batteries by type;

(ii) Mixing battery types in one container;

(iii) Discharging batteries so as to remove the electric charge;

(iv) Regenerating used batteries;

(v) Disassembling batteries or battery packs into individual batteries or cells;

(vi) Removing batteries from consumer products; or

(vii) Removing electrolyte from batteries.

(3) A large quantity handler of universal waste who removes electrolyte from batteries, or who generates other solid waste (e.g., battery pack materials, discarded consumer products) as a result of the activities listed above, must determine whether the electrolyte and/or other solid waste exhibit a characteristic of hazardous waste identified in 40 CFR part 261, subpart C.

(i) If the electrolyte and/or other solid waste exhibit a characteristic of hazardous waste, it must be managed in compliance with all applicable requirements of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272. The handler is considered the generator of the hazardous electrolyte and/or other waste and is subject to 40 CFR part 262.

(ii) If the electrolyte or other solid waste is not hazardous, the handler may manage the waste in any way that is in compliance with applicable federal, state or local solid waste regulations.
