
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 273 - STANDARDS FOR UNIVERSAL WASTE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart G - Petitions To Include Other Wastes Under 40 CFR Part 273
###### ยง 273.80 General.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any person seeking to add a hazardous waste or category of hazardous waste to this part may petition for a regulatory amendment under this subpart and 40 CFR 260.20 and 260.23.

(b) To be successful, the petitioner must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that regulation under the universal waste regulations of 40 CFR part 273 is: appropriate for the waste or category of waste; will improve management practices for the waste or category of waste; and will improve implementation of the hazardous waste program. The petition must include the information required by 40 CFR 260.20(b). The petition should also address as many of the factors listed in 40 CFR 273.81 as are appropriate for the waste or waste category addressed in the petition.

(c) The Administrator will evaluate petitions using the factors listed in 40 CFR 273.81. The Administrator will grant or deny a petition using the factors listed in 40 CFR 273.81. The decision will be based on the weight of evidence showing that regulation under 40 CFR part 273 is appropriate for the waste or category of waste, will improve management practices for the waste or category of waste, and will improve implementation of the hazardous waste program.

(d) Hazardous waste pharmaceuticals are regulated by 40 CFR part 266 subpart P and may not be added as a category of hazardous waste for management under this part.
