
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 273 - STANDARDS FOR UNIVERSAL WASTE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart E - Standards for Destination Facilities
###### ยง 273.61 Off-site shipments.

(a) The owner or operator of a destination facility is prohibited from sending or taking universal waste to a place other than a universal waste handler, another destination facility or foreign destination.

(b) The owner or operator of a destination facility may reject a shipment containing universal waste, or a portion of a shipment containing universal waste. If the owner or operator of the destination facility rejects a shipment or a portion of a shipment, he must contact the shipper to notify him of the rejection and to discuss reshipment of the load. The owner or operator of the destination facility must:

(1) Send the shipment back to the original shipper, or

(2) If agreed to by both the shipper and the owner or operator of the destination facility, send the shipment to another destination facility.

(c) If the owner or operator of a destination facility receives a shipment containing hazardous waste that is not a universal waste, the owner or operator of the destination facility must immediately notify the appropriate regional EPA office of the illegal shipment, and provide the name, address, and phone number of the shipper. The EPA regional office will provide instructions for managing the hazardous waste.

(d) If the owner or operator of a destination facility receives a shipment of non-hazardous, non-universal waste, the owner or operator may manage the waste in any way that is in compliance with applicable federal or state solid waste regulations.
