
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 279 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF USED OIL
##### Subpart E - Standards for Used Oil Transporter and Transfer Facilities
###### ยง 279.40 Applicability.
####### General.

(a)Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, this subpart applies to all used oil transporters. Used oil transporters are persons who transport used oil, persons who collect used oil from more than one generator and transport the collected oil, and owners and operators of used oil transfer facilities.

(1) This subpart does not apply to on-site transportation.

(2) This subpart does not apply to generators who transport shipments of used oil totalling 55 gallons or less from the generator to a used oil collection center as specified in ยง 279.24(a).

(3) This subpart does not apply to generators who transport shipments of used oil totalling 55 gallons or less from the generator to a used oil aggregation point owned or operated by the same generator as specified in ยง 279.24(b).

(4) This subpart does not apply to transportation of used oil from household do-it-yourselfers to a regulated used oil generator, collection center, aggregation point, processor/re-refiner, or burner subject to the requirements of this part. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, this subpart does, however, apply to transportation of collected household do-it-yourselfer used oil from regulated used oil generators, collection centers, aggregation points, or other facilities where household do-it-yourselfer used oil is collected.
