
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 279 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF USED OIL
##### Subpart F - Standards for Used Oil Processors and Re-Refiners
###### ยง 279.52 General facility standards.
####### Emergency procedures.

(6)(i) Whenever there is an imminent or actual emergency situation, the emergency coordinator (or the designee when the emergency coordinator is on call) must immediately:

(A) Activate internal facility alarms or communication systems, where applicable, to notify all facility personnel; and

(B) Notify appropriate State or local agencies with designated response roles if their help is needed.

(ii) Whenever there is a release, fire, or explosion, the emergency coordinator must immediately identify the character, exact source, amount, and areal extent of any released materials. He may do this by observation or review of facility records or manifests and, if necessary, by chemical analyses.

(iii) Concurrently, the emergency coordinator must assess possible hazards to human health or the environment that may result from the release, fire, or explosion. This assessment must consider both direct and indirect effects of the release, fire, or explosion (e.g., the effects of any toxic, irritating, or asphyxiating gases that are generated, or the effects of any hazardous surface water run-offs from water or chemical agents used to control fire and heat-induced explosions).

(iv) If the emergency coordinator determines that the facility has had a release, fire, or explosion which could threaten human health, or the environment, outside the facility, he must report his findings as follows:

(A) If his assessment indicated that evacuation of local areas may be advisable, he must immediately notify appropriate local authorities. He must be available to help appropriate officials decide whether local areas should be evacuated; and

(B) He must immediately notify either the government official designated as the on-scene coordinator for the geographical area (in the applicable regional contingency plan under part 1510 of this title), or the National Response Center (using their 24-hour toll free number 800/424-8802). The report must include:
