
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 279 - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF USED OIL
##### Subpart F - Standards for Used Oil Processors and Re-Refiners
###### ยง 279.52 General facility standards.
####### 6

() The possible hazards to human health, or the environment, outside the facility.

(v) During an emergency, the emergency coordinator must take all reasonable measures necessary to ensure that fires, explosions, and releases do not occur, recur, or spread to other used oil or hazardous waste at the facility. These measures must include, where applicable, stopping processes and operation, collecting and containing released used oil, and removing or isolating containers.

(vi) If the facility stops operation in response to a fire, explosion, or release, the emergency coordinator must monitor for leaks, pressure buildup, gas generation, or ruptures in valves, pipes, or other equipment, wherever this is appropriate.

(vii) Immediately after an emergency, the emergency coordinator must provide for recycling, storing, or disposing of recovered used oil, contaminated soil or surface water, or any other material that results from a release, fire, or explosion at the facility.

(viii) The emergency coordinator must ensure that, in the affected area(s) of the facility:

(A) No waste or used oil that may be incompatible with the released material is recycled, treated, stored, or disposed of until cleanup procedures are completed; and

(B) All emergency equipment listed in the contingency plan is cleaned and fit for its intended use before operations are resumed.

(C) The owner or operator must notify the Regional Administrator, and appropriate State and local authorities that the facility is in compliance with paragraphs (b)(6)(viii)(A) and (B) of this section before operations are resumed in the affected area(s) of the facility.

(ix) The owner or operator must note in the operating record the time, date and details of any incident that requires implementing the contingency plan. Within 15 days after the incident, he must submit a written report on the incident to the Regional Administrator. The report must include:

(A) Name, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator;

(B) Name, address, and telephone number of the facility;

(C) Date, time, and type of incident (e.g., fire, explosion);

(D) Name and quantity of material(s) involved;

(E) The extent of injuries, if any;

(F) An assessment of actual or potential hazards to human health or the environment, where this is applicable;

(G) Estimated quantity and disposition of recovered material that resulted from the incident.
