
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 280 - TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CORRECTIVE ACTION REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (UST)
##### Subpart B - UST Systems: Design, Construction, Installation and Notification
###### § 280.22 Notification requirements.

(a) After May 8, 1986, an owner must submit notice of a tank system's existence to the implementing agency within 30 days of bringing the underground storage tank system into use. Owners must use the form in appendix I of this part or a state form in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Within 30 days of acquisition, any person who assumes ownership of a regulated underground storage tank system, except as described in paragraph (a) of this section, must submit a notice of the ownership change to the implementing agency, using the form in appendix II of this part or a state form in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) In states where state law, regulations, or procedures require owners to use forms that differ from those set forth in appendix I and appendix II of this part to fulfill the requirements of this section, the state forms may be submitted in lieu of the forms set forth in appendix I and appendix II. If a state requires that its form be used in lieu of the form presented in appendix I and appendix II, such form must, at a minimum, collect the information prescribed in appendix I and appendix II.

(d) Owners required to submit notices under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must provide notices to the appropriate implementing agency for each tank they own. Owners may provide notice for several tanks using one notification form, but owners who own tanks located at more than one place of operation must file a separate notification form for each separate place of operation.

(e) All owners and operators of new UST systems must certify in the notification form compliance with the following requirements:

(1) Installation of tanks and piping under § 280.20(e);

(2) Cathodic protection of steel tanks and piping under § 280.20(a) and (b);

(3) Financial responsibility under subpart H of this part; and

(4) Release detection under §§ 280.41 and 280.42.

(f) All owners and operators of new UST systems must ensure that the installer certifies in the notification form that the methods used to install the tanks and piping complies with the requirements in § 280.20(d).

(g) Beginning October 24, 1988, any person who sells a tank intended to be used as an underground storage tank must notify the purchaser of such tank of the owner's notification obligations under paragraph (a) of this section. The statement provided in appendix III of this part, when used on shipping tickets and invoices, may be used to comply with this requirement.
