
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 280 - TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CORRECTIVE ACTION REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (UST)
##### Subpart C - General Operating Requirements
###### § 280.33 Repairs allowed.

Owners and operators of UST systems must ensure that repairs will prevent releases due to structural failure or corrosion as long as the UST system is used to store regulated substances. The repairs must meet the following requirements:

(a) Repairs to UST systems must be properly conducted in accordance with a code of practice developed by a nationally recognized association or an independent testing laboratory.

(b) Repairs to fiberglass-reinforced plastic tanks may be made by the manufacturer's authorized representatives or in accordance with a code of practice developed by a nationally recognized association or an independent testing laboratory.

(c) Metal pipe sections and fittings that have released product as a result of corrosion or other damage must be replaced. Non-corrodible pipes and fittings may be repaired in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.

(d) Repairs to secondary containment areas of tanks and piping used for interstitial monitoring and to containment sumps used for interstitial monitoring of piping must have the secondary containment tested for tightness according to the manufacturer's instructions, a code of practice developed by a nationally recognized association or independent testing laboratory, or according to requirements established by the implementing agency within 30 days following the date of completion of the repair. All other repairs to tanks and piping must be tightness tested in accordance with § 280.43(c) and § 280.44(b) within 30 days following the date of the completion of the repair except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) The repaired tank is internally inspected in accordance with a code of practice developed by a nationally recognized association or an independent testing laboratory; or

(2) The repaired portion of the UST system is monitored monthly for releases in accordance with a method specified in § 280.43(d) through (i); or

(3) Another test method is used that is determined by the implementing agency to be no less protective of human health and the environment than those listed in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(e) Within 6 months following the repair of any cathodically protected UST system, the cathodic protection system must be tested in accordance with § 280.31(b) and (c) to ensure that it is operating properly.

(f) Within 30 days following any repair to spill or overfill prevention equipment, the repaired spill or overfill prevention equipment must be tested or inspected, as appropriate, in accordance with § 280.35 to ensure it is operating properly.

(g) UST system owners and operators must maintain records (in accordance with § 280.34) of each repair until the UST system is permanently closed or undergoes a change-in-service pursuant to § 280.71.
