
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 280 - TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CORRECTIVE ACTION REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (UST)
##### Subpart E - Release Reporting, Investigation, and Confirmation
###### § 280.52 Release investigation and confirmation steps.
####### System test.

(a)Owners and operators must conduct tests (according to the requirements for tightness testing in §§ 280.43(c) and 280.44(b) or, as appropriate, secondary containment testing described in § 280.33(d)).

(1) The test must determine whether:

(i) A leak exists in that portion of the tank that routinely contains product, or the attached delivery piping; or

(ii) A breach of either wall of the secondary containment has occurred.

(2) If the system test confirms a leak into the interstice or a release, owners and operators must repair, replace, upgrade, or close the UST system. In addition, owners and operators must begin corrective action in accordance with subpart F of this part if the test results for the system, tank, or delivery piping indicate that a release exists.

(3) Further investigation is not required if the test results for the system, tank, and delivery piping do not indicate that a release exists and if environmental contamination is not the basis for suspecting a release.

(4) Owners and operators must conduct a site check as described in paragraph (b) of this section if the test results for the system, tank, and delivery piping do not indicate that a release exists but environmental contamination is the basis for suspecting a release.
