
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 280 - TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CORRECTIVE ACTION REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (UST)
##### Subpart H - Financial Responsibility
###### § 280.101 State fund or other state assurance.

(a) An owner or operator may satisfy the requirements of § 280.93 for underground storage tanks located in a state, where EPA is administering the requirements of this subpart, which assures that monies will be available from a state fund or state assurance program to cover costs up to the limits specified in § 280.93 or otherwise assures that such costs will be paid if the Regional Administrator determines that the state's assurance is at least equivalent to the financial mechanisms specified in this subpart.

(b) The Regional Administrator will evaluate the equivalency of a state fund or other state assurance principally in terms of: Certainty of the availability of funds for taking corrective action and/or for compensating third parties; the amount of funds that will be made available; and the types of costs covered. The Regional Administrator may also consider other factors as is necessary.

(c) The state must submit to the Regional Administrator a description of the state fund or other state assurance to be supplied as financial assurance, along with a list of the classes of underground storage tanks to which the funds may be applied. The Regional Administrator may require the state to submit additional information as is deemed necessary to make a determination regarding the acceptability of the state fund or other state assurance. Pending the determination by the Regional Administrator, the owner or operator of a covered class of USTs will be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of § 280.93 for the amounts and types of costs covered by the state fund or other state assurance.

(d) The Regional Administrator will notify the state of his determination regarding the acceptability of the state's fund or other assurance in lieu of financial mechanisms specified in this subpart. Within 60 days after the Regional Administrator notifies a state that a state fund or other state assurance is acceptable, the state must provide to each owner or operator for which it is assuming financial responsibility a letter or certificate describing the nature of the state's assumption of responsibility. The letter or certificate from the state must include, or have attached to it, the following information: the facility's name and address and the amount of funds for corrective action and/or for compensating third parties that is assured by the state. The owner or operator must maintain this letter or certificate on file as proof of financial responsibility in accordance with § 280.111(b)(8).
