
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 280 - TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CORRECTIVE ACTION REQUIREMENTS FOR OWNERS AND OPERATORS OF UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (UST)
##### Subpart I - Lender Liability
###### ยง 280.210 Participation in management.
####### Actions that are participation in management.

(a)(1) Participation in the management of an UST or UST system means, for purposes of this subpart, actual participation by the holder in the management or control of decisionmaking related to the operation of an UST or UST system. Participation in management does not include the mere capacity or ability to influence or the unexercised right to control UST or UST system operations. A holder is participating in the management of the UST or UST system only if the holder either:

(i) Exercises decisionmaking control over the operational (as opposed to financial or administrative) aspects of the UST or UST system, such that the holder has undertaken responsibility for all or substantially all of the management of the UST or UST system; or

(ii) Exercises control at a level comparable to that of a manager of the borrower's enterprise, such that the holder has assumed or manifested responsibility for the overall management of the enterprise encompassing the day-to-day decisionmaking of the enterprise with respect to all, or substantially all, of the operational (as opposed to financial or administrative) aspects of the enterprise.

(2) Operational aspects of the enterprise relate to the use, storage, filling, or dispensing of petroleum contained in an UST or UST system, and include functions such as that of a facility or plant manager, operations manager, chief operating officer, or chief executive officer. Financial or administrative aspects include functions such as that of a credit manager, accounts payable/receivable manager, personnel manager, controller, chief financial officer, or similar functions. Operational aspects of the enterprise do not include the financial or administrative aspects of the enterprise, or actions associated with environmental compliance, or actions undertaken voluntarily to protect the environment in accordance with applicable requirements in this part or applicable state requirements in those states that have been delegated authority by EPA to administer the UST program pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and 40 CFR part 281.
