
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 281 - APPROVAL OF STATE UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Purpose, General Requirements and Scope
###### ยง 281.12 Scope and definitions.
####### Scope.

(a)(1) The Administrator may approve either partial or complete state programs. A "partial" state program regulates either solely UST systems containing petroleum or solely UST systems containing hazardous substances. If a "partial" state program is approved, EPA will administer the remaining part of the program. A "complete" state program regulates both petroleum and hazardous substance tanks.

(2) EPA will administer the UST program in Indian country, except where Congress has clearly expressed an intention to grant a state authority to regulate petroleum and hazardous substance USTs in Indian country. In either case, this decision will not impair a state's ability to obtain program approval for petroleum or hazardous substances in non-Indian country in accordance with this part.

(3) Nothing in this subpart precludes a state from:

(i) Adopting or enforcing requirements that are more stringent or more extensive than those required under this part; or

(ii) Operating a program with a greater scope of coverage than that required under this part. Where an approved state program has a greater scope of coverage than required by federal law, the additional coverage is not part of the federally-approved program.
