
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 281 - APPROVAL OF STATE UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Approval Procedures
###### ยง 281.50 Approval procedures for state programs.

(a) The following procedures are required for all applications, regardless of whether the application is for a partial or complete program, as defined in ยง 281.12.

(b) Before submitting an application to EPA for approval of a state program, the state must provide an opportunity for public notice and comment in the development of its underground storage tank program.

(c) When EPA receives a state program application, EPA will examine the application and notify the state whether its application is complete, in accordance with the application components required in ยง 281.20. The 180-day statutory review period begins only after EPA has determined that a complete application has been received.

(d) The state and EPA may by mutual agreement extend the review period.

(e) After receipt of a complete program application, the Administrator will tentatively determine approval or disapproval of the state program. EPA shall issue public notice of the tentative determination in theand other mechanisms to attract state-wide attention. Notice of the tentative determination must also:

(1) Afford the public 30 days after the notice to comment on the state's application and the Administrator's tentative determination; and

(2) Include a general statement of the areas of concern, if the Administrator indicates the state program may not be approved; and

(3) Note the availability for inspection by the public of the state program application; and

(4) Indicate that a public hearing will be held by EPA no earlier than 30 days after notice of the tentative determination unless insufficient public interest is expressed, at which time the Regional Administrator may cancel the public hearing.

(f) Within 180 days of receipt of a complete state program application, the Administrator must make a final determination whether to approve the state program after review of all public comments. EPA will give notice of its determination in theand codify the approved state program. The notice must include a statement of the reasons for this determination and a response to significant comments received.
