
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 281 - APPROVAL OF STATE UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart E - Approval Procedures
###### ยง 281.51 Revision of approved state programs.

(a) Either EPA or the approved state may initiate program revision. Program revision may be necessary when the controlling federal or state statutory or regulatory authority is changed or when responsibility for the state program is shifted to a new agency or agencies. The state must inform EPA of any proposed modifications to its basic statutory or regulatory authority or change in division of responsibility among state agencies. EPA will determine in each case whether a revision of the approved program is required. Approved state programs must submit a revised application within three years of any changes to this part that requires a program revision.

(b) Whenever the Administrator has reason to believe that circumstances have changed with respect to an approved state program or the federal program, the Administrator may request, and the state must provide, a revised application as prescribed by EPA.

(c) The Administrator will approve or disapprove program revisions based on the requirements of this part and Subtitle I of the Solid Waste Disposal Act pursuant to the procedures under this section, or under ยง 281.50 if EPA has reason to believe the proposed revision will receive significant negative comment from the public.

(1) The Administrator must issue public notice of planned approval or disapproval of a state program revision in theand other mechanisms to attract state-wide attention. The public notice must summarize the state program revision, indicate whether EPA intends to approve or disapprove the revision, and provide for an opportunity to comment for a period of 30 days.

(2) The Administrator's decision on the proposed revision becomes effective 60 days after the date of publication in thein accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless significant negative comment opposing the proposed revision is received during the comment period. If significant negative comment is received, EPA must notify the state and within 60 days after the date of publication, publish in theeither:

(i) A withdrawal of the immediate final decision, which will then be treated as a tentative decision in accordance with the applicable procedures of ยง 281.50(e) and (f); or

(ii) A notice that contains a response to significant negative comments and affirms either that the immediate final decision takes effect or reverses the decision.

(d) Revised state programs that receive approval must be codified in the.
