
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.55 Colorado State-Administered Program.
####### et seq.

(a) The State of Colorado is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the Federal program under Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991The State's program, as administered by the Colorado Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), Division of Environmental Response and Remediation (DERR), was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this chapter. EPA published the notice of final determination approving the Colorado underground storage tank base program effective on April 23, 2007. A subsequent program revision application was approved by EPA and became effective on July 19, 2019.

(b) Colorado has primary responsibility for administering and enforcing its federally approved underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its corrective action, inspection, and enforcement authorities under Sections 9003(h), 9005, and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991b(h),6991d and 6991e, as well as under any other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions.

(c) To retain program approval, Colorado must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal Subtitle I program which make it more stringent, in accordance with Section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Colorado obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to Section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart, and notice of any change will be published in the.

(d) Colorado has final approval for the following elements of its program application originally submitted to the EPA and approved effective April 23, 2007, and the program revision application approved by the EPA effective on July 19, 2019:
