
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.57 Delaware State-Administered Program.
####### et seq.

(a) Delaware is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the Federal program under Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991The State's program, as administered by Delaware's Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and 40 CFR part 281 of this chapter. EPA approved the Delaware underground storage tank program on September 27, 1996, and approval was effective on October 28, 1996. A subsequent program revision application was approved by EPA and became effective on September 12, 2022.

(b) Delaware has primary responsibility for administering and enforcing its federally-approved underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities under sections 9005 and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, regardless of whether the State has taken its own actions, as well as under any other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions.

(c) To retain program approval, Delaware must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal Subtitle I program which makes it more stringent, in accordance with Section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Delaware obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the.

(d) Delaware has final approval for the following elements of its program application originally submitted to EPA and approved on September 27, 1996, and effective October 28, 1996, and the program revision application approved by EPA, effective on September 12, 2022.
