
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.58 District of Columbia State-Administered Program.
####### et seq.

(a) The District of Columbia is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the Federal program under Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991The State's program, as administered by the District of Columbia's Department of Energy and Environment's predecessor agency, the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and 40 CFR part 281 of this chapter. EPA approved the District of Columbia underground storage tank program on July 9, 1997, and approval was effective on May 4, 1998. A subsequent program revision application was approved by EPA and became effective on March 28, 2022.

(b) The District of Columbia has primary responsibility for administering and enforcing its federally-approved underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities under sections 9005 and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, regardless of whether the State has taken its own actions, as well as under any other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions.

(c) To retain program approval, the District of Columbia must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal Subtitle I program which makes it more stringent, in accordance with Section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If the District of Columbia obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the.

(d) The District of Columbia has final approval for the following elements of its program application originally submitted to EPA and approved on July 9, 1997, and effective May 4, 1998, and the program revision application approved by EPA, effective on March 28, 2022.
