
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.65 Iowa State-Administered Program.
####### et seq.

(a) The State of Iowa is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the federal program under Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991The State's program, as administered by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this Chapter. EPA approved the Iowa program on March 7, 1995 and it was effective on May 8, 1995.

(b) Iowa has primary responsibility for enforcing its underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities under sections 9005 and 9006 of subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, as well as under other statutory and regulatory provisions.

(c) To retain program approval, Iowa must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the federal subtitle I program which make it more stringent, in accordance with section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Iowa obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the

(d) Iowa has final approval for the following elements submitted to EPA in Iowa's program application for final approval and approved by EPA on March 7, 1995. Copies may be obtained from the Underground Storage Tank Program, Iowa Department of Natural Resources, Wallace State Office Building, 900 East Grand, Des Moines, Iowa, 50319.
