
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix W to Part 51 - Guideline on Air Quality Models
###### see

b. Due to the complexity of NOmodeling, a multi-tiered screening approach is required to obtain hourly and annual average estimates of NO.Since these methods are considered screening techniques, their usage shall occur in agreement with the appropriate reviewing authority (paragraph 3.0(b)). Additionally, since screening techniques are conservative by their nature, there are limitations to how these options can be used. Specifically, modeling of negative emissions rates should only be done after consultation with the EPA Regional Office to ensure that decreases in concentrations would not be overestimated. Each tiered approach (Figure 4-1) accounts for increasingly complex considerations of NOchemistry and is described in paragraphs c through e of this subsection. The tiers of NOmodeling include:

i. A first-tier (most conservative) "full" conversion approach;

ii. A second-tier approach that assumes ambient equilibrium between NO and NO; and

iii. A third-tier consisting of several detailed screening techniques that account for ambient ozone and the relative amount of NO and NOemitted from a source.

c. For Tier 1, use an appropriate refined model (section 4.2.2) to estimate nitrogen oxides (NO) concentrations and assume a total conversion of NO to NO.

d. For Tier 2, multiply the Tier 1 result(s) by the Ambient Ratio Method 2 (ARM2), which provides estimates of representative equilibrium ratios of NO/NOvalue based ambient levels of NOand NOderived from national data from the EPA's Air Quality System (AQS).The national default for ARM2 includes a minimum ambient NO/NOratio of 0.5 and a maximum ambient ratio of 0.9. The reviewing agency may establish alternative minimum ambient NO/NOvalues based on the source's in-stack emissions ratios, with alternative minimum ambient ratios reflecting the source's in-stack NO/NOratios. Preferably, alternative minimum ambient NO/NOratios should be based on source-specific data which satisfies all quality assurance procedures that ensure data accuracy for both NOand NOwithin the typical range of measured values. However, alternate information may be used to justify a source's anticipated NO/NOin-stack ratios, such as manufacturer test data, state or local agency guidance, peer-reviewed literature, and/or the EPA's NO/NOratio database.

e. For Tier 3, a detailed screening technique shall be applied on a case-by-case basis. Because of the additional input data requirements and complexities associated with the Tier 3 options, their usage shall occur in consultation with the EPA Regional Office in addition to the appropriate reviewing authority. The Ozone Limiting Method (OLM)and the Plume Volume Molar Ratio Method (PVMRM)are two detailed screening techniques that may be used for most sources. These two techniques use an appropriate section 4.2.2 model to estimate NOconcentrations and then estimate the conversion of primary NO emissions to NObased on the ambient levels of ozone and the plume characteristics. OLM only accounts for NOformation based on the ambient levels of ozone while PVMRM also accommodates distance-dependent conversion ratios based on ambient ozone. Both PVMRM and OLM require that ambient ozone concentrations be provided on an hourly basis and explicit specification of the NO/NOin-stack ratios. PVMRM works best for relatively isolated and elevated point source modeling while OLM works best for large groups of sources, area sources, and near-surface releases, including roadway sources.

f. Alternative models or techniques may be considered on a case-by-case basis and their usage shall be approved by the EPA Regional Office (section 3.2). Such models or techniques should consider individual quantities of NO and NOemissions, atmospheric transport and dispersion, and atmospheric transformation of NO to NO. Dispersion models that account for more explicit photochemistry may also be considered as an alternative model to estimate ambient impacts of NOsources.

a. PMis a mixture consisting of several diverse components.Ambient PMgenerally consists of two components: (1) The primary component, emitted directly from a source; and (2) the secondary component, formed in the atmosphere from other pollutants emitted from the source. Models for PMare needed to meet NSR requirements to address compliance with the PMNAAQS and PSD increments and for SIP attainment demonstrations.

b. For NSR modeling assessments, the general modeling requirements for screening models in section 4.2.1 and refined models in section 4.2.2 are applicable for the primary component of PM, while the methods in section 5.4 are applicable for addressing the secondary component of PM. Guidance for PSD assessments is available for determining the best approach to handling sources of primary and secondary PM.

c. For SIP attainment demonstrations and regional haze reasonable progress goal analyses, effects of a control strategy on PMare estimated from the sum of the effects on the primary and secondary components composing PM. Model users should refer to section 5.4.1 and associated SIP modeling guidancefor further details concerning appropriate modeling approaches.

d. The general modeling requirements for the refined models discussed in section 4.2.2 shall be applied for PMhot-spot modeling for mobile sources. Specific guidance is available for analyzing direct PMimpacts from highways, terminals, and other transportation projects.

a. Models for PMare needed to meet NSR requirements to address compliance with the PMNAAQS and PSD increments and for SIP attainment demonstrations.

b. For most sources, the general modeling requirements for screening models in section 4.2.1 and refined models in section 4.2.2 shall be applied for PMmodeling. In cases where the particle size and its effect on ambient concentrations need to be considered, particle deposition may be used on a case-by-case basis and their usage shall be coordinated with the appropriate reviewing authority. A SIP development guideis also available to assist in PManalyses and control strategy development.
