
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.74 Mississippi State-Administered Program.
####### et seq.

(a) The State of Mississippi is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the federal program under subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991The State's program, as administered by the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this chapter. EPA approved the Mississippi program on June 11, 1990 and it was effective on July 11, 1990.

(b) Mississippi has primary responsibility for enforcing its underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities under sections 9005 and 9006 of subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, as well as under other statutory and regulatory provisions.

(c) To retain program approval, Mississippi must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the federal subtitle I program which make it more stringent, in accordance with section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Mississippi obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the

(d) Mississippi has final approval for the following elements submitted to EPA in the State's program application for final approval and approved by EPA on June 11, 1990. Copies may be obtained from the Underground Storage Tank Program, Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality, 2380 Highway 80 West, Jackson, MS 39289-0385.
