
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.78 Nevada State-Administered Program.
####### et seq.

(a) The State of Nevada is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the Federal program under Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991The state's program, as administered by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this chapter. EPA approved the Nevada program on December 24, 1992 and it was effective March 30, 1993.

(b) Nevada has primary responsibility for enforcing its underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities under sections 9005 and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, as well as under other statutory and regulatory provisions.

(c) To retain program approval, Nevada must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal Subtitle I program, which makes it more stringent in accordance with section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Nevada obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the

(d) Nevada has final approval for the following elements submitted to EPA in Nevada's program application for final approval and approved by EPA on December 24, 1992. Copies may be obtained from the Nevada State Office Library, Board Room, 100 Stewart Street, Carson City, Nevada 89710.
