
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.87 Oregon State-Administered Program.
####### State statutes and regulations.,et seq.,,www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(1)(i) The materials cited in this paragraph (d)(1) are incorporated by reference as part of the underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the EPA must publish a document in theand the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at EPA Region 10, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Suite 155, Seattle, WA 98101, phone number (206) 553-6693. Copies of Oregon's program application may be obtained from the Underground Storage Tank Program, Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, 811 SW Sixth Avenue, Portland, Oregon, 97204. All approved material is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of the material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to

(A) Oregon Statutory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, June 2018.

(B) Oregon Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, June 2018.

(ii) The EPA considered the following statutes and regulations in evaluating the State program, but did not incorporate them by reference.

(A) The statutory provisions include:
