
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.88 Pennsylvania State-Administered Program.
####### et seq.

(a) The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania's underground storage tank program is approved in lieu of the Federal program in accordance with Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991The State's program, as administered by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this chapter. EPA approved the Pennsylvania underground storage tank program on September 11, 2003, and approval was effective on September 11, 2003.

(b) The Commonwealth has primary responsibility for enforcing its underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities in accordance with sections 9005 and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, regardless of whether the State has taken its own actions, as well as in accordance with other statutory and regulatory provisions.

(c) To retain program approval, the Commonwealth must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal Subtitle I program that make it more stringent, in accordance with section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If the Commonwealth obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the

(d) The Commonwealth has final approval for the following elements submitted to EPA in the State's program application for final approval. On September 11, 2003, EPA published a rule approving the State's program in the66 FR 53520. That approval became effective on September 11, 2003. Copies of the Commonwealth's program application may be obtained from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Land Recycling and Waste Management, Storage Tank Program, Rachel Carson State Office Building, Harrisburg, PA 17105-8762.
