
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.91 South Dakota State-Administered Program.
####### State statutes and regulations.,et seq.

(1)(i) The provisions cited in this paragraph are incorporated by reference as part of the underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991

(A) South Dakota Statutory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, 1995.

(B) South Dakota Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, 1995.

(ii) The following statutes are part of the approved state program, although not incorporated by reference herein for enforcement purposes.

(A) The statutory provisions include: South Dakota Codified Law, Water Pollution Control, Chapter 34A-2, Sections 46 and 48, Sections 72 through 75, Chapters 34A-10 and 34A-12.

(iii) The following statutory provisions are broader in scope than the federal program, are not part of the approved program, and are not incorporated by reference herein for enforcement purposes.

(A) South Dakota statutes Annotated, Chapter 34A-2, Section 100, insofar as it applies to above ground stationary storage tanks, Section 102, insofar as it applies to installation of above ground stationary storage tanks, Section 101, insofar as it applies to corrective action for above ground stationary storage tanks.
