
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.95 Vermont State-Administered Program.
####### Code of Vermont Rules, 12-032-004. Chapter 8,Vermont Underground Storage Tank Rules,,Code of Vermont Rules 12-032-008. Chapter 35-Investigation and Remediation of Contaminated Properties Rule,

(B)-Subchapter 1: General Provisions, Section 8-102. Purpose and Applicability, as it applies to "install, remove, repair, or test;" Section 8-103. Release Prohibition, Reporting, Emergency Response, the wording in 8-103(b), "owner of the land on which the underground storage tank system is located, transporter of fuel, etc." as it applies to any person being responsible for immediately reporting a release, and 8-103(g); Section 8-106. Fees; Section 8-107. Severability; Section 8-108. Variances; Section 8-109. Transfer of Ownership, Operation; Permits, Notification of Rules, Section 8-109(a); Subchapter 3: Registration (Notification), Permits, and Operator Training, Section 8-301. Applicability, 8-301(a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), (a)(2)(B), 8-301(b)(2), 8-301(c); Section 8-302. Registration, 8-302(a)(1)(C) and 8-302(c); Section 8-303, Permits for Category One Underground Storage Tank Systems, except 8-303(f); Section 8-304. Recording Underground Storage Tank Systems in Municipal Land Records; Subchapter 4: Design, Manufacturing, And Installation Standards for Underground Storage Tank Systems, Section 8-402. Prohibitions, 8-402(a) and (b); Section 8-405. Piping Standards, 8-405(b), (d)(2), and (e); Section 8-406. Spill Containment & Overfill Prevention Measures and Equipment, 8-406(c) and (d); Section 8-407. Scheduling Installations of Underground Storage Tank Systems, 8-407(a)(1); Subchapter 5: Operating Standards for Underground Storage Tanks, Section 8-503. Spill and Overfill Prevention; Monitoring of Deliveries, 8-503(a) and (b); Section 8-506. Release Detection Requirements for Tanks, 8-506(c)(1)(F); Section 8-508. Underground Storage Tank System Repairs, 8-508(c)(9)(B), (C) and (D); 8-508(g); Section 8-511. Testing of Sumps, Spill Containment, and Overfill Prevention Devices, 8-511(c); Subchapter 6: Out-Of-Service, Continued Use, And Closure Standards for Underground Storage Tank Systems, Section 8-601. Applicability, 8-601(c) and (d); Section 8-604. Closure of Underground Storage Tank Systems, the words "or three" in 8-604(g) as it applies to category three systems, 8-604(h)(3), and 8-604(i), with respect to the Secretary's issuance of an amended permit;Subchapter 1: General Provisions, Section 35-103. Severability; Section 35-107. Historical Fill Exemption; Subchapter 5: Response Actions; Releases of Heating Fuels; Subchapter 8: Contaminated Soil, Section 35-805. Development Soils; Subchapter 11. Requests for Reimbursement for Municipal Water Line Extensions from the Petroleum Cleanup or Environmental Contingency Funds; and other provisions of Chapter 35, insofar as they do not relate to underground storage tanks and with respect to underground storage tanks insofar as they are broader in scope than the federal requirements.
