
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.97 Washington State-Administered Program.
####### State statutes and regulations,Incorporation by reference.,et seq.,fr.inspection@nara.gov,www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(1)-(i)The materials cited in this paragraph (d)(1) are incorporated by reference as part of the underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the EPA must publish a document in theand the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at EPA Region 10, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Suite 155, Seattle, Washington 98101, phone number (206) 553-6693. Copies of Washington's program application may be obtained from the Underground Storage Tank Program, Washington Department of Ecology, P.O. Box 4765, Olympia, Washington 98504. All approved material is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of the material at NARA, emailor go to

(A) "Washington Statutory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program," June 2021.

(B) "Washington Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program," June 2021.
