
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Approved State Programs
###### ยง 282.98 West Virginia State-Administered Program.
####### et seq.

(a) The State of West Virginia is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the federal program under Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991The State's program, as administered by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and 40 CFR part 281 of this chapter. EPA approved the West Virginia underground storage tank program on September 23, 1997, and approval was effective on February 10, 1998. A subsequent program revision application was approved by EPA and became effective on November 10, 2020.

(b) West Virginia has primary responsibility for administering and enforcing its federally-approved underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities under sections 9005 and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, regardless of whether the State has taken its own actions, as well as under any other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions.

(c) To retain program approval, West Virginia must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the federal Subtitle I program which makes it more stringent, in accordance with Section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If West Virginia obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the.

(d) West Virginia has final approval for the following elements of its program application originally submitted to EPA and approved on September 23, 1997 and effective February 10, 1998, and the program revision application approved by EPA, effective on November 10, 2020.
