
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Appendix A to Part 282 - State Requirements Incorporated by Reference in Part 282 of the Code of Federal Regulations
###### RCSA, Title 22a. Environmental Protection,,(effective December 1, 2021).

1.Section 22a-449(d) Underground Storage Tank System Management

Section 1 Control of the nonresidential underground storage and handling of oil and petroleum liquids, except (d)(1) and (2) notification of life expectancy determination, life expectancy (h)(1)-(3), and (l) variances.

Section 100 Reserved.

Section 101 Technical standards and corrective action for owners and operators of underground storage tank systems-program scope and interim prohibition.

Section 102 UST systems: design, construction installation and notification.

Section 103 General operating requirements.

Section 104 Release Detection.

Section 105 Release reporting, investigation, and confirmation.

Section 106 Release response and corrective action for UST systems containing petroleum or hazardous substances.

Section 107 Out-of-service UST systems and closure.

Section 108 Operator training required.

Section 109 Financial responsibility.

Section 110 UST system upgrading, abandonment and removal date.

Section 112 UST system location transfer.

Section 113 Transfer of UST system ownership, possession or control.

(a) The statutory provisions include:

(1) Code of Delaware, Title 7, Chapter 74, Delaware Underground Storage Tank Act

(2) [Reserved]

(b) The regulatory provisions include:

(1) Delaware Administrative Code, Title 7, Chapter 1351, Underground Storage Tank Systems

(2) [Reserved]

(a) The statutory provisions include:

(1) Code of the District of Columbia, Division I, Title 8, Subtitle A, Chapter 1, Subchapter VII, Underground Storage Tank Management, sections 8-113.01-113.12

(2) [Reserved]

(b) The regulatory provisions include:

(1) District of Columbia Municipal Regulations, Title 20, Chapters 55-67 and 70, Underground Storage Tanks

(2) [Reserved]
