
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Appendix A to Part 282 - State Requirements Incorporated by Reference in Part 282 of the Code of Federal Regulations
###### Kentucky Revised Statutes (KRS) Chapter 224.

(1)

224.60-100 Underground storage tanks and regulated substances defined.

224.60-105(1) Registration of underground storage tanks-Programs to regulate tanks.

224.60-115 Definitions for KRS 224.60-120 to 224.60-150.

224.60-120 Financial responsibility of petroleum storage tank owner or operator-Administrative regulations, except (6).

224.60-135(1) Corrective action for a release into the environment from a petroleum storage tank, except the second sentence in (1).

(2) [Reserved]

(b) The regulatory provisions include:

(1) 401 Kentucky Administrative Regulations (KAR) Chapter 42.

401 KAR 42:005. Definitions for 401 KAR Chapter 42.

401 KAR 42:020. UST system requirements, notification, registration, and annual fees.

Section 1. Applicability and Exclusions.

Section 2. Notification, Registration, and Annual Fees, except (1)(b), (2)-(6), and certain provisions in (7)(c), (8) and (9).

Section 3. Temporary Closure, except (1).

Section 4. Performance Standards for New UST Systems.

Section 5. Upgrading of Existing UST Systems.

Section 6. Double Walled Tanks and Piping Requirements.

Section 8. Spill Containment Devices (Spill Buckets and Catch Basins).

Section 9. Overfill Prevention Requirements.

Section 10. Under-dispenser Containment (UDC) and Sump Requirements.

Section 11. Corrosion Protection Operation and Maintenance, except certain language in (4) and (9).

Section 12. Compatibility.

Section 13. Repairs, except (2).

Section 14. Noncorrodible Piping.

Section 15. Release Detection, except (6) and (7).

Section 16. Operator Training Requirements.

Section 17. Walkthrough Inspections.

Section 19. Recordkeeping.

Section 20. Financial Responsibility.

Section 21. Lender Liability.

Section 23. Incorporation by Reference.

401 KAR 42:060. UST system release and corrective action requirements.

Section 1. Reporting for Releases, Spills, and Overfills.

Section 3. Off-Site Impacts.

Section 4. Release Investigation and Confirmation.

Section 5. Release Response and Corrective Action.

Section 6. Permanent Closure or Change in Service.

Section 10. Incorporation by Reference.

(2) [Reserved]

(a) The regulatory provisions include:
