
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter I - Solid Wastes
#### PART 282 - APPROVED UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAMS
##### Appendix A to Part 282 - State Requirements Incorporated by Reference in Part 282 of the Code of Federal Regulations
###### https://www.doa.la.gov/Pages/osr/lac/LAC-33.aspx;,http://www.deq.louisiana.gov/resources/category/regulations-lac-title-33.

(b) Copies of the Louisiana UST regulations that are incorporated by reference are available from the Louisiana Office of the State Register, P.O. Box 94095, Baton Rouge, LA 70804-9095; Phone number: (225) 342-5015; website:or Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality's website:

(a) The statutory provisions include:

Section 341-A. Department of Environmental Protection, Section 341-H. Departmental rulemaking, Section 342-B. Liability of fiduciaries and lenders, Section 343-E. Voluntary response action program, Section 347-C. Right of inspection and entry.

Section 541. Findings; purpose, Section 542. Definitions, Section 543. Pollution and corruption of waters and lands of the State prohibited, Section 548. Removal of prohibited discharges.

Section 561. Findings, purpose, Section 562-A. Definitions, Section 563. Registration and inspection of underground oil storage tanks and piping, except 9., Section 563-A. Prohibition of nonconforming underground oil storage facilities and tanks, Section 563-B. Regulatory powers of department, Section 564. Regulation of underground oil storage facilities used to store motor fuels or used in the marketing and distribution of oil, except 5., Section 566-A. Abandonment of underground oil storage facilities and tanks, Section 567-A. Certifications, Section 568. Cleanup and removal of prohibited discharges, except 3. and 4., Section 568-A. Fund coverage requirements, Section 568-B. Clean-up and Response Review Board created, Section 569-C. Limited exemption from liability for state or local governmental entities, Section 570. Liability, Section 570-F. Special provisions, Section 570-K. Aboveground oil storage facilities, Section, Section 570-N. Rules, wastewater treatment tank systems.

Section 1391. Declaration of Policy, Section 1392. Definitions, Section 1393. Prohibition on installation of facilities in wellhead protection zones, Section 1394. Variances, Section 1398. Eligibility for Clean-up funds, Section 1399. Municipal authority, Section 1400. Rules.

(b) The regulatory provisions include:
