
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart A - Introduction
###### ยง 300.3 Scope.

(a) The NCP applies to and is in effect for:

(1) Discharges of oil into or on the navigable waters of the United States, on the adjoining shorelines, the waters of the contiguous zone, into waters of the exclusive economic zone, or that may affect natural resources belonging to, appertaining to, or under the exclusive management authority of the United States (See sections 311(c)(1) and 502(7) of the CWA).

(2) Releases into the environment of hazardous substances, and pollutants or contaminants which may present an imminent and substantial danger to public health or welfare of the United States.

(b) The NCP provides for efficient, coordinated, and effective response to discharges of oil and releases of hazardous substances, pollutants, and contaminants in accordance with the authorities of CERCLA and the CWA. It provides for:

(1) The national response organization that may be activated in response actions. It specifies responsibilities among the federal, state, and local governments and describes resources that are available for response.

(2) The establishment of requirements for federal, regional, and area contingency plans. It also summarizes state and local emergency planning requirements under SARA Title III.

(3) Procedures for undertaking removal actions pursuant to section 311 of the CWA.

(4) Procedures for undertaking response actions pursuant to CERCLA.

(5) Procedures for involving state governments in the initiation, development, selection, and implementation of response actions, pursuant to CERCLA.

(6) Listing of federal trustees for natural resources for purposes of CERCLA and the CWA.

(7) Procedures for the participation of other persons in response actions.

(8) Procedures for compiling and making available an administrative record for response actions.

(9) National procedures for the use of dispersants and other chemicals in removals under the CWA and response actions under CERCLA.

(c) In implementing the NCP, consideration shall be given to international assistance plans and agreements, security regulations and responsibilities based on international agreements, federal statutes, and executive orders. Actions taken pursuant to the provisions of any applicable international joint contingency plans shall be consistent with the NCP, to the greatest extent possible. The Department of State shall be consulted, as appropriate, prior to taking any action which may affect its activities.

(d) Additionally, the NCP applies to and is in effect when the Federal Response Plan and some or all its Emergency Support Functions (ESFs) are activated.
