
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart B - Responsibility and Organization for Response
###### ยง 300.120 On-scene coordinators and remedial project managers: general responsibilities.

(a) The OSC/RPM directs response efforts and coordinates all other efforts at the scene of a discharge or release. As part of the planning and preparedness for response, OSCs shall be predesignated by the regional or district head of the lead agency. EPA and the USCG shall predesignate OSCs for all areas in each region, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. RPMs shall be assigned by the lead agency to manage remedial or other response actions at NPL sites, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(1) The USCG shall provide OSCs for oil discharges, including discharges from facilities and vessels under the jurisdiction of another federal agency, within or threatening the coastal zone. The USCG shall also provide OSCs for the removal of releases of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants into or threatening the coastal zone, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The USCG shall not provide predesignated OSCs for discharges or releases from hazardous waste management facilities or in similarly chronic incidents. The USCG shall provide an initial response to discharges or releases from hazardous waste management facilities within the coastal zone in accordance with Department of Transportation (DOT)/EPA Instrument of Redelegation (May 27, 1988) except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section. The USCG OSC shall contact the cognizant RPM as soon as it is evident that a removal may require a follow-up remedial action, to ensure that the required planning can be initiated and an orderly transition to an EPA or state lead can occur.

(2) EPA shall provide OSCs for discharges or releases into or threatening the inland zone and shall provide RPMs for federally funded remedial actions, except in the case of state-lead federally funded response and as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. EPA will also assume all remedial actions at NPL sites in the coastal zone, even where removals are initiated by the USCG, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) In general, USCG Captains of the Port (COTP) shall serve as the designated OSCs for areas in the coastal zone for which an ACP is required under CWA section 311(j) and EPA Regional Administrators shall designate OSCs for areas in the inland zone for which an ACP is required under CWA section 311(j).

(c) For releases of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants, when the release is on, or the sole source of the release is from, any facility or vessel, including vessels bareboat-chartered and operated, under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of DOD, DOE, or other federal agency:

(1) In the case of DOD or DOE, DOD or DOE shall provide OSCs/RPMs responsible for taking all response actions; and

(2) In the case of a federal agency other than EPA, DOD, or DOE, such agency shall provide OSCs for all removal actions that are not emergencies and shall provide RPMs for all remedial actions.

(d) DOD will be the removal response authority with respect to incidents involving DOD military weapons and munitions or weapons and munitions under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of DOD.

(e) The OSC is responsible for overseeing development of the ACP in the area of the OSC's responsibility. ACPs shall, as appropriate, be accomplished in cooperation with the RRT, and designated state and local representatives. In contingency planning and removal, the OSC coordinates, directs, and reviews the work of other agencies, Area Committees, responsible parties, and contractors to assure compliance with the NCP, decision document, consent decree, administrative order, and lead agency-approved plans applicable to the response.

(f) The RPM is the prime contact for remedial or other response actions being taken (or needed) at sites on the proposed or promulgated NPL, and for sites not on the NPL but under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of a federal agency. The RPM's responsibilities include:

(1) Fund-financed response: The RPM coordinates, directs, and reviews the work of EPA, states and local governments, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and all other agencies and contractors to assure compliance with the NCP. Based upon the reports of these parties, the RPM recommends action for decisions by lead agency officials. The RPM's period of responsibility begins prior to initiation of the remedial investigation/feasibility study (RI/FS), described in ยง 300.430, and continues through design, remedial action, deletion of the site from the NPL, and the CERCLA cost recovery activity. When a removal and remedial action occur at the same site, the OSC and RPM should coordinate to ensure an orderly transition of responsibility.

(2) Federal-lead non-Fund-financed response: The RPM coordinates, directs, and reviews the work of other agencies, responsible parties, and contractors to assure compliance with the NCP, Record of Decision (ROD), consent decree, administrative order, and lead agency-approved plans applicable to the response. Based upon the reports of these parties, the RPM shall recommend action for decisions by lead agency officials. The RPM's period of responsibility begins prior to initiation of the RI/FS, described in ยง 300.430, and continues through design and remedial action and the CERCLA cost recovery activity. The OSC and RPM shall ensure orderly transition of responsibilities from one to the other.

(3) The RPM shall participate in all decision-making processes necessary to ensure compliance with the NCP, including, as appropriate, agreements between EPA or other federal agencies and the state. The RPM may also review responses where EPA has preauthorized a person to file a claim for reimbursement to determine that the response was consistent with the terms of such preauthorization in cases where claims are filed for reimbursement.

(g)(1) Where a support agency has been identified through a cooperative agreement, Superfund Memorandum of Agreement (SMOA), or other agreement, that agency may designate a support agency coordinator (SAC) to provide assistance, as requested, by the OSC/RPM. The SAC is the prime representative of the support agency for response actions.

(2) The SAC's responsibilities may include:

(i) Providing and reviewing data and documents as requested by the OSC/RPM during the planning, design, and cleanup activities of the response action; and

(ii) Providing other assistance as requested.

(h)(1) The lead agency should provide appropriate training for its OSCs, RPMs, and other response personnel to carry out their responsibilities under the NCP.

(2) OSCs/RPMs should ensure that persons designated to act as their on-scene representatives are adequately trained and prepared to carry out actions under the NCP, to the extent practicable.
