
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart B - Responsibility and Organization for Response
###### § 300.125 Notification and communications.

(a) The National Response Center (NRC), located at USCG Headquarters, is the national communications center, continuously manned for handling activities related to response actions. The NRC acts as the single point of contact for all pollution incident reporting, and as the NRT communications center. Notice of discharges and releases must be made telephonically through a toll free number or a special local number (Telecommunication Device for the Deaf (TDD) and collect calls accepted). (Notification details appear in §§ 300.300 and 300.405.) The NRC receives and immediately relays telephone notices of discharges or releases to the appropriate predesignated federal OSC. The telephone report is distributed to any interested NRT member agency or federal entity that has established a written agreement or understanding with the NRC. The NRC evaluates incoming information and immediately advises FEMA of a potential major disaster situation.

(b) The Commandant, USCG, in conjunction with other NRT agencies, shall provide the necessary personnel, communications, plotting facilities, and equipment for the NRC.

(c) Notice of an oil discharge or release of a hazardous substance in an amount equal to or greater than the reportable quantity must be made immediately in accordance with 33 CFR part 153, subpart B, and 40 CFR part 302, respectively. Notification shall be made to the NRC Duty Officer, HQ USCG, Washington, DC, telephone (800) 424-8802 or (202) 267-2675. All notices of discharges or releases received at the NRC will be relayed immediately by telephone to the OSC.
