
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart B - Responsibility and Organization for Response
###### ยง 300.150 Worker health and safety.
####### et seq.

(c) In a response taken under the NCP by a lead agency, an occupational safety and health program should be made available for the protection of workers at the response site, consistent with, and to the extent required by, 29 CFR 1910.120. Contracts relating to a response action under the NCP should contain assurances that the contractor at the response site will comply with this program and with any applicable provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651) (OSH Act) and state laws with plans approved under section 18 of the OSH Act.

(d) When a state, or political subdivision of a state, without an OSHA-approved state plan is the lead agency for response, the state or political subdivision must comply with standards in 40 CFR part 311, promulgated by EPA pursuant to section 126(f) of SARA.

(e) Requirements, standards, and regulations of the OSH Act and of state OSH laws not directly referenced in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, must be complied with where applicable. Federal OSH Act requirements include, among other things, Construction Standards (29 CFR part 1926), General Industry Standards (29 CFR part 1910), and the general duty requirement of section 5(a)(1) of the OSH Act (29 U.S.C. 654(a)(1)). No action by the lead agency with respect to response activities under the NCP constitutes an exercise of statutory authority within the meaning of section 4(b)(1) of the OSH Act. All governmental agencies and private employers are directly responsible for the health and safety of their own employees.
