
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart B - Responsibility and Organization for Response
###### ยง 300.185 Nongovernmental participation.

(a) Industry groups, academic organizations, and others are encouraged to commit resources for response operations. Specific commitments should be listed in the RCP and ACP. Those entities required to develop tank vessel and facility response plans under CWA section 311(j) must be able to respond to a worst case discharge to the maximum extent practicable, and shall commit sufficient resources to implement other aspects of those plans in accordance with the requirements of 30 CFR part 254, 33 CFR parts 150, 154, and 155; 40 CFR part 112; and 49 CFR parts 171 and 194.

(b) The technical and scientific information generated by the local community, along with information from federal, state, and local governments, should be used to assist the OSC/RPM in devising response strategies where effective standard techniques are unavailable. Such information and strategies will be incorporated into the ACP, as appropriate. The SSC may act as liaison between the OSC/RPM and such interested organizations.

(c) ACPs shall establish procedures to allow for well organized, worthwhile, and safe use of volunteers, including compliance with ยง 300.150 regarding worker health and safety. ACPs should provide for the direction of volunteers by the OSC/RPM or by other federal, state, or local officials knowledgeable in contingency operations and capable of providing leadership. ACPs also should identify specific areas in which volunteers can be used, such as beach surveillance, logistical support, and bird and wildlife treatment. Unless specifically requested by the OSC/RPM, volunteers generally should not be used for physical removal or remedial activities. If, in the judgment of the OSC/RPM, dangerous conditions exist, volunteers shall be restricted from on-scene operations.

(d) Nongovernmental participation must be in compliance with the requirements of subpart H of this part if any recovery of costs will be sought.
