
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart B - Responsibility and Organization for Response
###### ยง 300.170 Federal agency participation.

Federal agencies listed in ยง 300.175 have duties established by statute, executive order, or Presidential directive which may apply to federal response actions following, or in prevention of, the discharge of oil or release of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. Some of these agencies also have duties relating to the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, or acquisition of equivalent natural resources injured or lost as a result of such discharge or release as described in subpart G of this part. The NRT, RRT, and Area Committee organizational structure, and the NCP, RCPs and ACPs, described in ยง 300.210, provide for agencies to coordinate with each other in carrying out these duties.

(a) Federal agencies may be called upon by an OSC/RPM during response planning and implementation to provide assistance in their respective areas of expertise, as described in ยง 300.175, consistent with the agencies' capabilities and authorities.

(b) In addition to their general responsibilities, federal agencies should:

(1) Make necessary information available to the Secretary of the NRT, RRTs, Area Committees, and OSCs/RPMs.

(2) Provide representatives to the NRT and RRTs and otherwise assist RRTs and OSCs, as necessary, in formulating RCPs and ACPs.

(3) Inform the NRT, RRTs, and Area Committees, consistent with national security considerations, of changes in the availability of resources that would affect the operations implemented under the NCP.

(c) All federal agencies are responsible for reporting releases of hazardous substances from facilities or vessels under their jurisdiction or control in accordance with section 103 of CERCLA.

(d) All federal agencies are encouraged to report releases of pollutants or contaminants and must report discharges of oil, as required in 40 CFR part 110, from facilities or vessels under their jurisdiction or control to the NRC.
