
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart B - Responsibility and Organization for Response
###### ยง 300.160 Documentation and cost recovery.

(a) For releases of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant, the following provisions apply:

(1) During all phases of response, the lead agency shall complete and maintain documentation to support all actions taken under the NCP and to form the basis for cost recovery. In general, documentation shall be sufficient to provide the source and circumstances of the release, the identity of responsible parties, the response action taken, accurate accounting of federal, state, or private party costs incurred for response actions, and impacts and potential impacts to the public health and welfare and the environment. Where applicable, documentation shall state when the NRC received notification of a release of a reportable quantity.

(2) The information and reports obtained by the lead agency for Fund-financed response actions shall, as appropriate, be transmitted to the chair of the RRT. Copies can then be forwarded to the NRT, members of the RRT, and others as appropriate.

(3) The lead agency shall make available to the trustees of affected natural resources information and documentation that can assist the trustees in the determination of actual or potential natural resource injuries.

(b) For discharges of oil, documentation and cost recovery provisions are described in ยง 300.315.

(c) Response actions undertaken by the participating agencies shall be carried out under existing programs and authorities when available. Federal agencies are to make resources available, expend funds, or participate in response to discharges and releases under their existing authority. Interagency agreements may be signed when necessary to ensure that the federal resources will be available for a timely response to a discharge or release. The ultimate decision as to the appropriateness of expending funds rests with the agency that is held accountable for such expenditures. Further funding provisions for discharges of oil are described in ยง 300.335.

(d) The Administrator of EPA and the Administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) shall assure that the costs of health assessment or health effect studies conducted under the authority of CERCLA section 104(i) are documented in accordance with standard EPA procedures for cost recovery. Documentation shall include information on the nature of the hazardous substances addressed by the research, information concerning the locations where these substances have been found, and any available information on response actions taken concerning these substances at the location.
