
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart E - Hazardous Substance Response
###### ยง 300.425 Establishing remedial priorities.
####### Deletion from the NPL.

(e)Releases may be deleted from or recategorized on the NPL where no further response is appropriate.

(1) EPA shall consult with the state on proposed deletions from the NPL prior to developing the notice of intent to delete. In making a determination to delete a release from the NPL, EPA shall consider, in consultation with the state, whether any of the following criteria has been met:

(i) Responsible parties or other persons have implemented all appropriate response actions required;

(ii) All appropriate Fund-financed response under CERCLA has been implemented, and no further response action by responsible parties is appropriate; or

(iii) The remedial investigation has shown that the release poses no significant threat to public health or the environment and, therefore, taking of remedial measures is not appropriate.

(2) Releases shall not be deleted from the NPL until the state in which the release was located has concurred on the proposed deletion. EPA shall provide the state 30 working days for review of the deletion notice prior to its publication in the

(3) All releases deleted from the NPL are eligible for further Fund-financed remedial actions should future conditions warrant such action. Whenever there is a significant release from a site deleted from the NPL, the site shall be restored to the NPL without application of the HRS.

(4) To ensure public involvement during the proposal to delete a release from the NPL, EPA shall:

(i) Publish a notice of intent to delete in theand solicit comment through a public comment period of a minimum of 30 calendar days;

(ii) In a major local newspaper of general circulation at or near the release that is proposed for deletion, publish a notice of availability or use one or more other mechanisms to give adequate notice to a community of the intent to delete;

(iii) Place copies of information supporting the proposed deletion in the information repository, described in ยง 300.430(c)(2)(iii), at or near the release proposed for deletion. These items shall be available for public inspection and copying; and

(iv) Respond to each significant comment and any significant new data submitted during the comment period and include this response document in the final deletion package.

(5) EPA shall place the final deletion package in the local information repository once the notice of final deletion has been published in the
