
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart E - Hazardous Substance Response
###### ยง 300.420 Remedial site evaluation.
####### Remedial site inspection.

(c)(1) The lead agency shall perform a remedial SI as appropriate to:

(i) Eliminate from further consideration those releases that pose no significant threat to public health or the environment;

(ii) Determine the potential need for removal action;

(iii) Collect or develop additional data, as appropriate, to evaluate the release pursuant to the HRS; and

(iv) Collect data in addition to that required to score the release pursuant to the HRS, as appropriate, to better characterize the release for more effective and rapid initiation of the RI/FS or response under other authorities.

(2) The remedial SI shall build upon the information collected in the remedial PA. The remedial SI shall involve, as appropriate, both on- and off-site field investigatory efforts, and sampling.

(3) If the remedial SI indicates that removal action may be appropriate, the lead agency shall initiate removal site evaluation pursuant to ยง 300.410.

(4) Prior to conducting field sampling as part of site inspections, the lead agency shall develop sampling and analysis plans that shall provide a process for obtaining data of sufficient quality and quantity to satisfy data needs. The sampling and analysis plans shall consist of two parts:

(i) The field sampling plan, which describes the number, type, and location of samples, and the type of analyses, and

(ii) The quality assurance project plan (QAPP), which describes policy, organization, and functional activities, and the data quality objectives and measures necessary to achieve adequate data for use in site evaluation and hazard ranking system activities.

(5) Upon completion of a remedial SI, the lead agency shall prepare a report that includes the following:

(i) A description/history/nature of waste handling;

(ii) A description of known contaminants;

(iii) A description of pathways of migration of contaminants;

(iv) An identification and description of human and environmental targets; and

(v) A recommendation on whether further action is warranted.
