
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart E - Hazardous Substance Response
###### ยง 300.420 Remedial site evaluation.
####### Remedial preliminary assessment.

(b)(1) The lead agency shall perform a remedial PA on all sites entered into the SEMS remedial assessment active inventory as defined in ยง 300.5 to:

(i) Eliminate from further consideration those sites that pose no threat to public health or the environment;

(ii) Determine if there is any potential need for removal action;

(iii) Set priorities for site inspections; and

(iv) Gather existing data to facilitate later evaluation of the release pursuant to the Hazard Ranking System (HRS) if warranted.

(2) A remedial PA shall consist of a review of existing information about a release such as information on the pathways of exposure, exposure targets, and source and nature of release. A remedial PA shall also include an off-site reconnaissance as appropriate. A remedial PA may include an on-site reconnaissance where appropriate.

(3) If the remedial PA indicates that a removal action may be warranted, the lead agency shall initiate removal evaluation pursuant to ยง 300.410.

(4) In performing a remedial PA, the lead agency may complete the EPA Preliminary Assessment form, available from EPA regional offices, or its equivalent, and shall prepare a PA report, which shall include:

(i) A description of the release;

(ii) A description of the probable nature of the release; and

(iii) A recommendation on whether further action is warranted, which lead agency should conduct further action, and whether an SI or removal action or both should be undertaken.

(5) Any person may petition the lead federal agency (EPA or the appropriate federal agency in the case of a release or suspected release from a federal facility), to perform a PA of a release when such person is, or may be, affected by a release of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. Such petitions shall be addressed to the EPA Regional Administrator for the region in which the release is located, except that petitions for PAs involving federal facilities should be addressed to the head of the appropriate federal agency.

(i) Petitions shall be signed by the petitioner and shall contain the following:

(A) The full name, address, and phone number of petitioner;

(B) A description, as precisely as possible, of the location of the release; and

(C) How the petitioner is or may be affected by the release.

(ii) Petitions should also contain the following information to the extent available:

(A) What type of substances were or may be released;

(B) The nature of activities that have occurred where the release is located; and

(C) Whether local and state authorities have been contacted about the release.

(iii) The lead federal agency shall complete a remedial or removal PA within one year of the date of receipt of a complete petition pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, if one has not been performed previously, unless the lead federal agency determines that a PA is not appropriate. Where such a determination is made, the lead federal agency shall notify the petitioner and will provide a reason for the determination.

(iv) When determining if performance of a PA is appropriate, the lead federal agency shall take into consideration:

(A) Whether there is information indicating that a release has occurred or there is a threat of a release of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant; and

(B) Whether the release is eligible for response under CERCLA.
