
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart H - Participation by Other Persons
###### ยง 300.700 Activities by other persons.
####### i.e.

(2) In order to be reimbursed by the Fund, an eligible person must notify the Administrator of EPA or designee prior to taking a response action and receive prior approval,, "preauthorization," for such action.

(3) Preauthorization is EPA's prior approval to submit a claim against the Fund for necessary response costs incurred as a result of carrying out the NCP. All applications for preauthorization will be reviewed to determine whether the request should receive priority for funding. EPA, in its discretion, may grant preauthorization of a claim. Preauthorization will be considered only for:

(i) Removal actions pursuant to ยง 300.415;

(ii) CERCLA section 104(b) activities; and

(iii) Remedial actions at National Priorities List sites pursuant to ยง 300.435.

(4) To receive EPA's prior approval, the eligible person must:

(i) Demonstrate technical and other capabilities to respond safely and effectively to releases of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants; and

(ii) Establish that the action will be consistent with the NCP in accordance with the elements set forth in paragraphs (c)(5) through (8) of this section.

(5) EPA will grant preauthorization to a claim by a party it determines to be potentially liable under section 107 of CERCLA only in accordance with an order issued pursuant to section 106 of CERCLA, or a settlement with the federal government in accordance with section 122 of CERCLA.

(6) Preauthorization does not establish an enforceable contractual relationship between EPA and the claimant.

(7) Preauthorization represents EPA's commitment that if funds are appropriated for response actions, the response action is conducted in accordance with the preauthorization decision document, and costs are reasonable and necessary, reimbursement will be made from the Superfund, up to the maximum amount provided in the preauthorization decision document.

(8) For a claim to be awarded under section 111 of CERCLA, EPA must certify that the costs were necessary and consistent with the preauthorization decision document.
