
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart G - Trustees for Natural Resources
###### ยง 300.605 State trustees.
####### state

State trustees shall act on behalf of the public as trustees for natural resources, including their supporting ecosystems, within the boundary of a state or belonging to, managed by, controlled by, or appertaining to such state. For the purposes of subpart G of this part, the definition of the termdoes not include Indian tribes. The governor of a state is encouraged to designate a state lead trustee to coordinate all state trustee responsibilities with other trustee agencies and with response activities of the RRT and OSC. The state's lead trustee would designate a representative to serve as contact with the OSC. This individual should have ready access to appropriate state officials with environmental protection, emergency response, and natural resource responsibilities. The EPA Administrator or USCG Commandant or their designees may appoint the state lead trustee as a member of the Area Committee. Response strategies should be coordinated between the state and other trustees and the OSC for specific natural resource locations in an inland or coastal zone and should be included in the Fish and Wildlife and Sensitive Environments Plan annex of the ACP.
