
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart I - Administrative Record for Selection of Response Action
###### ยง 300.810 Contents of the administrative record file.
####### Contents.

(a)The administrative record file for selection of a response action typically, but not in all cases, will contain the following types of documents:

(1) Documents containing factual information, data and analysis of the factual information, and data that may form a basis for the selection of a response action. Such documents may include verified sampling data, quality control and quality assurance documentation, chain of custody forms, site inspection reports, preliminary assessment and site evaluation reports, ATSDR health assessments, documents supporting the lead agency's determination of imminent and substantial endangerment, public health evaluations, and technical and engineering evaluations. In addition, for remedial actions, such documents may include approved workplans for the remedial investigation/feasibility study, state documentation of applicable or relevant and appropriate requirements, and the RI/FS;

(2) Guidance documents, technical literature, and site-specific policy memoranda that may form a basis for the selection of the response action. Such documents may include guidance on conducting remedial investigations and feasibility studies, guidance on determining applicable or relevant and appropriate requirements, guidance on risk/exposure assessments, engineering handbooks, articles from technical journals, memoranda on the application of a specific regulation to a site, and memoranda on off-site disposal capacity;

(3) Documents received, published, or made available to the public under ยง 300.815 for remedial actions, or ยง 300.820 for removal actions. Such documents may include notice of availability of the administrative record file, community relations plan, proposed plan for remedial action, notices of public comment periods, public comments and information received by the lead agency, and responses to significant comments;

(4) Decision documents. Such documents may include action memoranda and records of decision;

(5) Enforcement orders. Such documents may include administrative orders and consent decrees; and

(6) An index of the documents included in the administrative record file. If documents are customarily grouped together, as with sampling data chain of custody documents, they may be listed as a group in the index to the administrative record file.
