
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart J - Use of Dispersants and Other Chemicals
###### ยง 300.915 Data requirements.
####### Bioremediation Agents.

(d)(1) Name, brand, or trademark, if any, under which the agent is sold.

(2) Name, address, and telephone number of the manufacturer, importer, or vendor.

(3) Name, address, and telephone number of primary distributors or sales outlets.

(4) Special handling and worker precautions for storage and field application. Maximum and minimum storage temperatures.

(5) Shelf life.

(6) Recommended application procedures, concentrations, and conditions for use depending upon water salinity, water temperature, types and ages of the pollutants, and any other application restrictions.

(7) Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness. Use bioremediation agent effectiveness test methods described in appendix C to part 300.

(8) Bioremediation Agent Toxicity [Reserved].

(9) Biological additives.

(i) For microbiological cultures, furnish the following information:

(A) Listing of each component of the total formulation, other than microorganisms, by chemical name and percentage by weight.

(B) Listing of all microorganisms by species.

(C) Percentage of each species in the composition of the additive.

(D) Optimum pH, temperature, and salinity ranges for use of the additive, and maximum and minimum pH, temperature, and salinity levels above or below which the effectiveness of the additive is reduced to half its optimum capacity.

(E) Special nutrient requirements, if any.

(F) Separate listing of the following, and test methods for such determinations: Salmonella, fecal coliform, Shigella, Staphylococcus Coagulase positive, and Beta Hemolytic Streptococci.

(ii) For enzyme additives, furnish the following information:

(A) Listing of each component of the total formulation, other than enzymes, by chemical name and percentage by weight.

(B) Enzyme name(s).

(C) International Union of Biochemistry (I.U.B.) number(s).

(D) Source of the enzyme.

(E) Units.

(F) Specific Activity.

(G) Optimum pH, temperature, and salinity ranges for use of the additive, and maximum and minimum pH, temperature, and salinity levels above or below which the effectiveness of the additive is reduced to half its optimum capacity.

(H) Enzyme shelf life.

(I) Enzyme optimum storage conditions.

(10) For nutrient additives, furnish the following information:

(i) Listing of each component of the total formulation by chemical name and percentage by weight.

(ii) Nutrient additive optimum storage conditions.

(11) Analytical Laboratory Requirements for Technical Product Data. Follow specifications in paragraph (a)(12) of this section.
