
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart J - Use of Dispersants and Other Chemicals
###### ยง 300.915 Data requirements.
####### Toxicity.

(7)Use standard toxicity test methods described in appendix C to part 300.

(8) Follow the data requirement specifications in paragraph (a)(9) of this section.

(9) Test to Distinguish Between Surface Collecting Agents and Other Chemical Agents.

(i) Method Summary-Five milliliters of the chemical under test are mixed with 95 milliliters of distilled water and allowed to stand undisturbed for one hour. Then the volume of the upper phase is determined to the nearest one milliliter.

(ii) Apparatus.

(A) Mixing Cylinder: 100 milliliter subdivisions and fitted with a glass stopper.

(B) Pipettes: Volumetric pipette, 5.0 milliliter.

(C) Timers.

(iii) Procedure-Add 95 milliliters of distilled water at 22 &#xB0;C, plus or minus 3 &#xB0;C, to a 100 milliliter mixing cylinder. To the surface of the water in the mixing cylinder, add 5.0 milliliters of the chemical under test. Insert the stopper and invert the cylinder five times in ten seconds. Set upright for one hour at 22 &#xB0;C, plus or minus 3 &#xB0;C, and then measure the chemical layer at the surface of the water. If the major portion of the chemical added (75 percent) is at the water surface as a separate and easily distinguished layer, the product is a surface collecting agent.

(10) Surface Collecting Agent Components. Itemize by chemical name and percentage by weight each component of the total formulation. The percentages should include maximum, minimum, and average weights in order to reflect quality control variations in manufacture or formulation. In addition to the chemical information provided in response to the first two sentences, identify the major components in at least the following categories: surface action agents, solvents, and additives.

(11) Heavy Metals, Cyanide, and Chlorinated Hydrocarbons. Follow specifications in paragraph (a)(11) of this section.

(12) Analytical Laboratory Requirements for Technical Product Data. Follow specifications in paragraph (a)(12) of this section.
