
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart J - Use of Dispersants and Other Chemicals
###### § 300.913 Monitoring the use of dispersants.

The responsible party shall monitor any subsurface use of dispersant in response to an oil discharge, any surface use of dispersant for more than 96 hours after initial application in response to an oil discharge, and any surface use of dispersant in response to oil discharges of more than 100,000 U.S. gallons occurring within a 24-hour period, and shall submit a Dispersant Monitoring Quality Assurance Project Plan (DMQAPP) covering the collection of environmental data within this section to the OSC. When any dispersant is used subsurface in response to an oil discharge, the responsible party shall implement paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section for the entire duration of the subsurface dispersant use. When any dispersant is used on the surface in response to oil discharges of greater than 100,000 U.S. gallons occurring within a 24-hour period, the responsible party shall implement paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section as soon as possible for the entire or remaining duration of surface dispersant use, as applicable. When any dispersant is used on the surface in response to an oil discharge for more than 96 hours after initial application, the responsible party shall implement paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section for the remaining duration of surface dispersant use.

(a) Document:

(1) The characteristics of the source oil.

(2) The best estimate of the oil discharge volume or flow rate, periodically reevaluated as conditions dictate, including a description of the method, associated uncertainties, and materials.

(3) The dispersant used, rationale for dispersant choice(s) including the results of any efficacy and toxicity tests specific to area or site conditions, recommended dispersant-to-oil ratio (DOR).

(4) The application method(s) and procedures, including a description of the equipment to be used, hourly application rates, capacities, and total amount of dispersant.

(5) For subsurface discharges, the best estimate of the discharge flow rate of any associated volatile petroleum hydrocarbons, periodically reevaluated as conditions dictate, including a description of the method, associated uncertainties, and materials.

(b) Collect a representative set of ambient background water column samples in areas not affected by the discharge of oil, at the closest safe distance from the discharge as determined by the OSC, and in all directions of likely oil transport considering surface and subsurface currents. Collect a representative set of baseline water column samples absent dispersant application at such depths and locations affected by the oil discharge, considering surface and subsurface currents, oil properties, and other relevant discharge conditions. On a daily basis, collect dispersed oil plume water column samples at such depths and locations where dispersed oil is likely to be present, considering surface and subsurface currents, oil properties, and other relevant discharge conditions. Collect these ambient background, baseline, and dispersed oil plume water column samples following standard operating and quality assurance procedures. Analyze the collected ambient background, baseline, and dispersed oil plume water column samples for:

(1) In-situ oil droplet size distribution, including mass or volume mean diameter for droplet sizes ranging from 2.5 to 2,000 µm, with the majority of data collected between the 2.5 and 100 µm size.

(2) In-situ fluorometry and fluorescence signatures targeted to the type of oil discharged and referenced against the source oil.

(3) Dissolved oxygen (DO) (subsurface only).

(4) Total petroleum hydrocarbons, individual resolvable constituents including volatile organic compounds, aliphatic hydrocarbons, monocyclic, polycyclic, and other aromatic hydrocarbons including alkylated homologs, and hopane and sterane biomarker compounds.

(5) Methane, if present (subsurface only).

(6) Heavy metals, including nickel and vanadium.

(7) Turbidity.

(8) Water temperature.

(9) pH.

(10) Conductivity.

(c) Considering available technologies, characterize the dispersant effectiveness and oil distribution including trajectory, accounting for the condition of oil, dispersant, and dispersed oil components from the discharge location, and describing associated uncertainties.
