
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart J - Use of Dispersants and Other Chemicals
###### ยง 300.915 Data requirements.
####### Dispersant Toxicity.

(8)For those dispersants that meet the effectiveness threshold described in paragraph (a)(7) above, use the standard toxicity test methods described in appendix C to part 300. Manufacturers shall submit test results and supporting data, along with a certification signed by responsible corporate officials of the manufacturer and laboratory stating that the test was conducted on a representative product sample, the testing was conducted using generally accepted laboratory practices, and they believe the results to be accurate.

(9) The following data requirements incorporate by reference standards from the 1991 or 1992 Annual Books of ASTM Standards. American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.

(i) Flash Point-Select appropriate method from the following:

(A) ASTM-D 56-87, "Standard Test Method for Flash Point by Tag Closed Tester;"

(B) ASTM-D 92-90, "Standard Test Method for Flash and Fire Points by Cleveland Open Cup;"

(C) ASTM-D 93-90, "Standard Test Methods for Flash Point by Pensky-Martens Closed Tester;"

(D) ASTM-D 1310-86, "Standard Test Method for Flash Point and Fire Point of Liquids by Tag Open-Cup Apparatus;" or

(E) ASTM-D 3278-89, "Standard Test Methods for Flash Point of Liquids by Setaflash Closed-Cup Apparatus."

(ii) Pour Point-Use ASTM-D 97-87, "Standard Test Method for Pour Point of Petroleum Oils."

(iii) Viscosity-Use ASTM-D 445-88, "Standard Test Method for Kinematic Viscosity of Transparent and Opaque Liquids (and the Calculation of Dynamic Viscosity)."

(iv) Specific Gravity-Use ASTM-D 1298-85(90), "Standard Test Method for Density, Relative Density (Specific Gravity), or API Gravity of Crude Petroleum and Liquid Petroleum Products by Hydrometer Method."

(v) pH-Use ASTM-D 1293-84(90), "Standard Test Methods for pH of Water."

(10) Dispersing Agent Components. Itemize by chemical name and percentage by weight each component of the total formulation. The percentages will include maximum, minimum, and average weights in order to reflect quality control variations in manufacture or formulation. In addition to the chemical information provided in response to the first two sentences, identify the major components in at least the following categories: surface active agents, solvents, and additives.

(11) Heavy Metals, Cyanide, and Chlorinated Hydrocarbons. Using standard test procedures, state the concentrations or upper limits of the following materials:

(i) Arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, lead, mercury, nickel, zinc, plus any other metals that may be reasonably expected to be in the sample. Atomic absorption methods should be used and the detailed analytical methods and sample preparation shall be fully described.

(ii) Cyanide. Standard calorimetric procedures should be used.

(iii) Chlorinated hydrocarbons. Gas chromatography should be used and the detailed analytical methods and sample preparation shall be fully described. At a minimum, the following test methods shall be used for chlorinated hydrocarbon analyses: EPA Method 601-Purgeable halocarbons (Standard Method 6230 B) and EPA Method 608-Organochlorine pesticides and PCBs (Standard Method 6630 C).

(12) The technical product data submission shall include the identity of the laboratory that performed the required tests, the qualifications of the laboratory staff, including professional biographical information for individuals responsible for any tests, and laboratory experience with similar tests. Laboratories performing toxicity tests for dispersant toxicity must demonstrate previous toxicity test experience in order for their results to be accepted. It is the responsibility of the submitter to select competent analytical laboratories based on the guidelines contained herein. EPA reserves the right to refuse to accept a submission of technical product data because of lack of qualification of the analytical laboratory, significant variance between submitted data and any laboratory confirmation performed by EPA, or other circumstances that would result in inadequate or inaccurate information on the dispersing agent.
