
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart J - Use of Dispersants and Other Chemicals
###### ยง 300.915 Data requirements.
####### Dispersants.

(a)(1) Name, brand, or trademark, if any, under which the dispersant is sold.

(2) Name, address, and telephone number of the manufacturer, importer, or vendor.

(3) Name, address, and telephone number of primary distributors or sales outlets.

(4) Special handling and worker precautions for storage and field application. Maximum and minimum storage temperatures, to include optimum ranges as well as temperatures that will cause phase separations, chemical changes, or other alterations to the effectiveness of the product.

(5) Shelf life.

(6) Recommended application procedures, concentrations, and conditions for use depending upon water salinity, water temperature, types and ages of the pollutants, and any other application restrictions.

(7) Effectiveness. Use the Swirling Flask effectiveness test methods described in appendix C to part 300. Manufacturers shall submit test results and supporting data, along with a certification signed by responsible corporate officials of the manufacturer and laboratory stating that the test was conducted on a representative product sample, the testing was conducted using generally accepted laboratory practices, and they believe the results to be accurate. A dispersant must attain an effectiveness value of 45 percent or greater to be added to the NCP Product Schedule. Manufacturers are encouraged to provide data on product performance under conditions other than those captured by these tests.
