
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart J - Use of Dispersants and Other Chemicals
###### ยง 300.920 Addition of products to Schedule.
####### Surface washing agents, surface collecting agents, bioremediation agents, and miscellaneous oil spill control agents.

(b)(1) To add a surface washing agent, surface collecting agent, bioremediation agent, or miscellaneous oil spill control agent to the NCP Product Schedule, the technical product data specified in ยง 300.915 must be submitted to the Emergency Response Division (5202-G), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460. If EPA determines that the required data were submitted, EPA will add the product to the Schedule.

(2) EPA will inform the submitter in writing, within 60 days of the receipt of technical product data, of its decision on adding the product to the Schedule.

(c) The submitter may assert that certain information in the technical product data submissions, including technical product data submissions for sorbents pursuant to ยง 300.915(g)(3), is confidential business information. EPA will handle such claims pursuant to the provisions in 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. Such information must be submitted separately from non-confidential information, clearly identified, and clearly marked "Confidential Business Information." If the submitter fails to make such a claim at the time of submittal, EPA may make the information available to the public without further notice.

(d) The submitter must notify EPA of any changes in the composition, formulation, or application of the dispersant, surface washing agent, surface collecting agent, bioremediation agent, or miscellaneous oil spill control agent. On the basis of this data, EPA may require retesting of the product if the change is likely to affect the effectiveness or toxicity of the product.

(e) The listing of a product on the NCP Product Schedule does not constitute approval of the product. To avoid possible misinterpretation or misrepresentation, any label, advertisement, or technical literature that refers to the placement of the product on the NCP Product Schedule must either reproduce in its entirety EPA's written statement that it will add the product to the NCP Product Schedule under ยง 300.920(a)(2) or (b)(2), or include the disclaimer shown below. If the disclaimer is used, it must be conspicuous and must be fully reproduced. Failure to comply with these restrictions or any other improper attempt to demonstrate the approval of the product by any NRT or other U.S. Government agency shall constitute grounds for removing the product from the NCP Product Schedule.
