
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart J - Use of Dispersants and Other Chemicals
###### ยง 300.915 Data requirements.
####### Sorbents.

(g)(1) Sorbent material may consist of, but is not limited to, the following materials:

(i) Organic products-

(A) Peat moss or straw;

(B) Cellulose fibers or cork;

(C) Corn cobs;

(D) Chicken, duck, or other bird feathers.

(ii) Mineral compounds-

(A) Volcanic ash or perlite;

(B) Vermiculite or zeolite.

(iii) Synthetic products-

(A) Polypropylene;

(B) Polyethylene;

(C) Polyurethane;

(D) Polyester.

(2) EPA does not require technical product data submissions for sorbents and does not include sorbents on the NCP Product Schedule.

(3) Manufacturers that produce sorbent materials that consist of materials other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall submit to EPA the technical product data specified for miscellaneous oil spill control agents in paragraph (f) of this section and EPA will consider listing those products on the NCP Product Schedule under the miscellaneous oil spill control agent category. EPA will inform the submitter in writing, within 60 days of the receipt of technical product data, of its decision on adding the product to the Schedule.

(4) Certification. OSCs may request a written certification from manufacturers that produce sorbent materials that consist solely of the materials listed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section prior to making a decision on the use of a particular sorbent material. The certification at a minimum shall state that the sorbent consists solely of the materials listed in ยง 300.915(g)(1) of the NCP. The following statement, when completed, dated, and signed by a sorbent manufacturer, is sufficient to meet the written certification requirement:
