
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart J - Use of Dispersants and Other Chemicals
###### ยง 300.915 Data requirements.
####### Miscellaneous Oil Spill Control Agents.

(f)(1) Name, brand, or trademark, if any, under which the miscellaneous oil spill control agent is sold.

(2) Name, address, and telephone number of the manufacturer, importer, or vendor.

(3) Name, address, and telephone number of primary distributors or sales outlets.

(4) Brief description of recommended uses of the product and how the product works.

(5) Special handling and worker precautions for storage and field application. Maximum and minimum storage temperatures, to include optimum ranges as well as temperatures that will cause phase separations, chemical changes, or other alternatives to the effectiveness of the product.

(6) Shelf life.

(7) Recommended application procedures, concentrations, and conditions for use depending upon water salinity, water temperature, types and ages of the pollutants, and any other application restrictions.

(8) Toxicity. Use standard toxicity test methods described in appendix C to part 300.

(9) Follow the data requirement specifications in paragraph (a)(9) of this section.

(10) Miscellaneous Oil Spill Control Agent Components. Itemize by chemical name and percentage by weight each component of the total formulation. The percentages should include maximum, minimum, and average weights in order to reflect quality control variations in manufacture or formulation. In addition to the chemical information provided in response to the first two sentences, identify the major components in at least the following categories: surface active agents, solvents, and additives.

(11) Heavy Metals, Cyanide, and Chlorinated Hydrocarbons. Follow specifications in paragraph (a)(11) of this section.

(12) For any miscellaneous oil spill control agent that contains microbiological cultures, enzyme additives, or nutrient additives, furnish the information specified in paragraphs (d)(9) and (d)(10) of this section, as appropriate.

(13) Analytical Laboratory Requirements for Technical Product Data. Follow specifications in paragraph (a)(12) of this section.
