
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Subpart J - Use of Dispersants and Other Chemicals
###### ยง 300.920 Addition of products to Schedule.
####### Dispersants.

(a)(1) To add a dispersant to the NCP Product Schedule, submit the technical product data specified in ยง 300.915(a) to the Emergency Response Division (5202-G), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460. A dispersant must attain an effectiveness value of 45 percent or greater in order to be added to the Schedule.

(2) EPA reserves the right to request further documentation of the manufacturers' test results. EPA also reserves the right to verify test results and consider the results of EPA's verification testing in determining whether the dispersant meets listing criteria. EPA will, within 60 days of receiving a complete application as specified in ยง 300.915(a) of this part, notify the manufacturer of its decision to list the product on the Schedule, or request additional information and/or a sample of the product in order to review and/or conduct validation sampling. If EPA requests additional information and/or a product sample, within 60 days of receiving such additional information or sample, EPA will then notify the manufacturer in writing of its decision to list or not list the product.

(3) Request for review of decision. (i) A manufacturer whose product was determined to be ineligible for listing on the NCP Product Schedule may request EPA's Administrator to review the determination. The request must be made in writing within 30 days of receiving notification of EPA's decision to not list the dispersant on the Schedule. The request shall contain a clear and concise statement with supporting facts and technical analysis demonstrating that EPA's decision was incorrect.

(ii) The Administrator or his designee may request additional information from the manufacturer, or from any other person, and may provide for a conference between EPA and the manufacturer, if appropriate. The Administrator or his designee shall render a decision within 60 days of receiving the request, or within 60 days of receiving requested additional information, if appropriate, and shall notify the manufacturer of his decision in writing.
