
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Appendix Y to Part 51 - Guidelines for BART Determinations Under the Regional Haze Rule
###### i.e.

Major stationary sources which commenced construction AFTER August 7, 1977 (, major stationary sources which were not "in existence" on August 7, 1977) were subject to new source review (NSR) under the PSD program. Thus, the August 7, 1977 "in existence" test is essentially the same thing as the identification of emissions units that were grandfathered from the NSR review requirements of the 1977 CAA amendments.

3. Sources are not BART-eligible if the only change at the plant during the relevant time period was the addition of pollution controls. For example, if the only change at a copper smelter during the 1962 through 1977 time period was the addition of acid plants for the reduction of SOemissions, these emission controls would not by themselves trigger a BART review.

An emissions unit that meets the August 7, 1977 "in existence" test is not BART-eligible if it was in operation before August 7, 1962. "In operation" is defined as "engaged in activity related to the primary design function of the source." This means that a source must have begun actual operations by August 7, 1962 to satisfy this test.

1. Under a number of CAA programs, an existing source which is completely or substantially rebuilt is treated as a new source. Such "reconstructed" sources are treated as new sources as of the time of the reconstruction. Consistent with this overall approach to reconstructions, the definition of BART-eligible facility (reflected in detail in the definition of "existing stationary facility") includes consideration of sources that were in operation before August 7, 1962, but were reconstructed during the August 7, 1962 to August 7, 1977 time period.

2. Under the regional haze regulations at 40 CFR 51.301, a reconstruction has taken place if "the fixed capital cost of the new component exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost of a comparable entirely new source." The rule also states that "[a]ny final decision as to whether reconstruction has occurred must be made in accordance with the provisions of §§ 60.15 (f)(1) through (3) of this title." "[T]he provisions of §§ 60.15(f)(1) through (3)" refers to the general provisions for New Source Performance Standards (NSPS). Thus, the same policies and procedures for identifying reconstructed "affected facilities" under the NSPS program must also be used to identify reconstructed "stationary sources" for purposes of the BART requirement.

3. You should identify reconstructions on an emissions unit basis, rather than on a plantwide basis. That is, you need to identify only the reconstructed emission units meeting the 50 percent cost criterion. You should include reconstructed emission units in the list of emission units you identified in Step 1. You need consider as possible reconstructions only those emissions units with the potential to emit more than 250 tons per year of any visibility-impairing pollutant.

4. The "in operation" and "in existence" tests apply to reconstructed sources. If an emissions unit was reconstructed and began actual operation before August 7, 1962, it is not BART-eligible. Similarly, any emissions unit for which a reconstruction "commenced" after August 7, 1977, is not BART-eligible.

1. The NSPS program and the major source NSR program both contain the concept of modifications. In general, the term "modification" refers to any physical change or change in the method of operation of an emissions unit that results in an increase in emissions.

2. The BART provision in the regional haze rule contains no explicit treatment of modifications or how modified emissions units, previously subject to the requirement to install best available control technology (BACT), lowest achievable emission rate (LAER) controls, and/or NSPS are treated under the rule. As the BART requirements in the CAA do not appear to provide any exemption for sources which have been modified since 1977, the best interpretation of the CAA visibility provisions is that a subsequent modification does not change a unit's construction date for the purpose of BART applicability. Accordingly, if an emissions unit began operation before 1962, it is not BART-eligible if it was modified between 1962 and 1977, so long as the modification is not also a "reconstruction." On the other hand, an emissions unit which began operation within the 1962-1977 time window, but was modified after August 7, 1977, is BART-eligible. We note, however, that if such a modification was a major modification that resulted in the installation of controls, the State will take this into account during the review process and may find that the level of controls already in place are consistent with BART.

The result of Steps 1 and 2 will be a list of emissions units at a given plant site, including reconstructed emissions units, that are within one or more of the BART categories and that were placed into operation within the 1962-1977 time window. The third step is to determine whether the total emissions represent a current potential to emit that is greater than 250 tons per year of any single visibility impairing pollutant. Fugitive emissions, to the extent quantifiable, must be counted. In most cases, you will add the potential emissions from all emission units on the list resulting from Steps 1 and 2. In a few cases, you may need to determine whether the plant contains more than one "stationary source" as the regional haze rule defines that term, and as we explain further below.

Visibility-impairing pollutants include the following:

(1) Sulfur dioxide (SO),

(2) Nitrogen oxides (NO), and

(3) Particulate matter.

You may use PMas an indicator for particulate matter in this intial step. [Note that we do not recommend use of total suspended particulates (TSP) as in indicator for particulate matter.] As emissions of PMinclude the components of PMas a subset, there is no need to have separate 250 ton thresholds for PMand PM; 250 tons of PMrepresents at most 250 tons of PM, and at most 250 tons of any individual particulate species such as elemental carbon, crustal material, etc.
