
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Overview.

2.1The HRS site score (S) is the result of an evaluation of four pathways:

- Ground Water Migration (S).

- Surface Water Migration (S).

- Soil Exposure and Subsurface Intrusion (S).

- Air Migration (S).

The ground water and air migration pathways use single threat evaluations, while the surface water migration and soil exposure and subsurface intrusion pathways use multiple threat evaluations. Three threats are evaluated for the surface water migration pathway: Drinking water, human food chain, and environmental. These threats are evaluated for two separate migration components-overland/flood migration and ground water to surface water migration. Two components are evaluated for the soil exposure and subsurface intrusion pathway: Soil exposure and subsurface intrusion. The soil exposure component evaluates two threats: Resident population and nearby population, and the subsurface intrusion component is a single threat evaluation.

The HRS is structured to provide a parallel evaluation for each of these pathways, components, and threats. This section focuses on these parallel evaluations, starting with the calculation of the HRS site score and the individual pathway scores.
