
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Comparison to benchmarks.

2.5.2Use the following media-specific benchmarks for making the comparisons for the indicated pathway (or threat):

- Maximum Contaminant Level Goals (MCLGs)-ground water migration pathway and drinking water threat in surface water migration pathway. Use only MCLG values greater than 0.

- Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCLs)-ground water migration pathway and drinking water threat in surface water migration pathway.

- Food and Drug Administration Action Level (FDAAL) for fish or shellfish-human food chain threat in surface water migration pathway.

- EPA Ambient Water Quality Criteria (AWQC/National Recommended Water Quality Criteria) for protection of aquatic life-environmental threat in surface water migration pathway.

- EPA Ambient Aquatic Life Advisory Concentrations (AALAC)-environmental threat in surface water migration pathway.

- National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS)-air migration pathway.

- National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAPs)-air migration pathway. Use only those NESHAPs promulgated in ambient concentration units.

- Screening concentration for cancer corresponding to that concentration that corresponds to the 10individual cancer risk for inhalation exposures (air migration pathway or subsurface intrusion component of the soil exposure and subsurface intrusion pathway) or for oral exposures (ground water migration pathway; drinking water and human food chain threats in surface water migration pathway; and soil exposure and subsurface intrusion pathway).

- Screening concentration for noncancer toxicological responses corresponding to the RfC for inhalation exposures (air migration pathway and subsurface intrusion component of the soil exposure and subsurface intrusion pathway) or RfD for oral exposures (ground water migration pathway; drinking water and human food chain threats in surface water migration pathway; and soil exposure and subsurface intrusion pathway).

Select the benchmark(s) applicable to the pathway (component or threat) being evaluated as specified in sections 3 through 6. Compare the concentration of each hazardous substance from the sampling location to its benchmark concentration(s) for that pathway (component or threat). Use only those samples and only those hazardous substances in the sample that meet the criteria for an observed release (or observed contamination or observed exposure) for the pathway, except: Tissue samples from aquatic human food chain organisms may be used as specified in sections 4.1.3.3 and 4.2.3.3. If the concentration of any applicable hazardous substance from any sample equals or exceeds its benchmark concentration, consider the sampling location to be subject to Level I concentrations for that pathway (or threat). If more than one benchmark applies to the hazardous substance, assign Level I if the concentration of the hazardous substance equals or exceeds the lowest applicable benchmark concentration.

If no hazardous substance individually equals or exceeds its benchmark concentration, but more than one hazardous substance either meets the criteria for an observed release (or observed contamination or observed exposure) for the sample (or comparable samples) or is eligible to be evaluated for a tissue sample (see sections 4.1.3.3 and 4.2.3.3), calculate the indices I and J specified below based on these hazardous substances.

For those hazardous substances that are carcinogens (that is, those having either a carcinogen weight-of-evidence classification of A, B, or C or a weight-of-evidence classification of carcinogenic to humans, likely to be carcinogenic to humans, or suggestive evidence of carcinogenic potential), calculate an index I for the sample location as follows:

For those hazardous substances for which an RfD or RfC is available, calculate an index J for the sample location as follows:

If either I or J equals or exceeds 1, consider the sampling location to be subject to Level I concentrations for that pathway (component or threat). If both I and J are less than 1, consider the sampling location to be subject to Level II concentrations for that pathway (component or threat). If, for the sampling location, there are sets of samples that are not comparable, calculate I and J separately for each such set, and use the highest calculated values of I and J to assign Level I and Level II.

See sections 7.3.1 and 7.3.2 for criteria for determining the level of contamination for radioactive substances.

Evaluate the ground water migration pathway based on three factor categories: likelihood of release, waste characteristics, and targets. Figure 3-1 indicates the factors included within each factor category.

Determine the ground water migration pathway score (S) in terms of the factor category values as follows:

Table 3-1 outlines the specific calculation procedure.

Calculate a separate ground water migration pathway score for each aquifer, using the factor category values for that aquifer for likelihood of release, waste characteristics, and targets. In doing so, include both the targets using water from that aquifer and the targets using water from all overlying aquifers through which the hazardous substances would migrate to reach the aquifer being evaluated. Assign the highest ground water migration pathway score that results for any aquifer as the ground water migration pathway score for the site.
