
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Depth to aquifer.

3.1.2.3Evaluate depth to aquifer by determining the depth from the lowest known point of hazardous substances at a site to the top of the aquifer being evaluated, considering all layers in that interval. Measure the depth to an aquifer as the distance from the surface to the top of the aquifer minus the distance from the surface to the lowest known point of hazardous substances eligible to be evaluated for that aquifer. In evaluating depth to aquifer in karst terrain, assign a thickness of 0 feet to a karst aquifer that underlies any portion of the sources at the site. Based on the calculated depth, assign a value from table 3-5 to the depth to aquifer factor.

Determine the depth to aquifer only at locations within 2 miles of the sources at the site, except: if observed ground water contamination attributable to sources at the site extends more than 2 miles beyond these sources, use any location within the limits of this observed ground water contamination when evaluating the depth to aquifer factor for any aquifer that does not have an observed release. If the necessary geologic information is available at multiple locations, calculate the depth to aquifer at each location. Use the location having the smallest depth to assign the factor value. Enter this value in table 3-1.
