
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Population.

3.3.2In evaluating the population factor, include those persons served by drinking water wells within the target distance limit specified in section 3.0.1.1. For the aquifer being evaluated, count those persons served by wells in that aquifer and those persons served by wells in overlying aquifers as specified in section 3.0. Include residents, students, and workers who regularly use the water. Exclude transient populations such as customers and travelers passing through the area. Evaluate the population based on the location of the water supply wells, not on the location of residences, work places, etc. When a standby well is maintained on a regular basis so that water can be withdrawn, include it in evaluating the population factor.

In estimating residential population, when the estimate is based on the number of residences, multiply each residence by the average number of persons per residence for the county in which the residence is located.

In determining the population served by a well, if the water from the well is blended with other water (for example, water from other ground water wells or surface water intakes), apportion the total population regularly served by the blended system to the well based on the well's relative contribution to the total blended system. In estimating the well's relative contribution, assume each well and intake contributes equally and apportion the population accordingly, except: if the relative contribution of any one well or intake exceeds 40 percent based on average annual pumpage or capacity, estimate the relative contribution of the wells and intakes considering the following data, if available:

- Average annual pumpage from the ground water wells and surface water intakes in the blended system.

- Capacities of the wells and intakes in the blended system.

For systems with standby ground water wells or standby surface water intakes, apportion the total population regularly served by the blended system as described above, except:

- Exclude standby surface water intakes in apportioning the population.

- When using pumpage data for a standby ground water well, use average pumpage for the period during which the standby well is used rather than average annual pumpage.

- For that portion of the total population that could be apportioned to a standby ground water well, assign that portion of the population either to that standby well or to the other ground water well(s) and surface water intake(s) that serve that population; do not assign that portion of the population both to the standby well and to the other well(s) and intake(s) in the blended system. Use the apportioning that results in the highest population factor value. (Either include all standby well(s) or exclude some or all of the standby well(s) as appropriate to obtain this highest value.) Note that the specific standby well(s) included or excluded and, thus, the specific apportioning may vary in evaluating different aquifers and in evaluating the surface water pathway.
