
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Wellhead Protection Area.

3.3.4Evaluate the Wellhead Protection Area factor based on Wellhead Protection Areas designated according to section 1428 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended. Consider only those Wellhead Protection Areas applicable to the aquifer being evaluated or overlying aquifers (as specified in section 3.0). Select the highest value below that applies. Assign it as the value for the Wellhead Protection Area factor for the aquifer being evaluated. Enter this value in table 3-1.

Assign a value of 20 if either of the following criteria applies for the aquifer being evaluated or overlying aquifers:

- A source with a ground water containment factor value greater than 0 lies, either partially or fully, within or above the designated Wellhead Protection Area.

- Observed ground water contamination attributable to the sources at the site lies, either partially or fully, within the designated Wellhead Protection Area.

If neither criterion applies, assign a value of 5, if, within the target distance limit, there is a designated Wellhead Protection Area applicable to the aquifer being evaluated or overlying aquifers.

Assign a value of 0 if none of the above applies.
