
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Surface water categories.

4.0.2For HRS purposes, classify surface water into four categories: rivers, lakes, oceans, and coastal tidal waters.

Rivers include:

- Perennially flowing waters from point of origin to the ocean or to coastal tidal waters, whichever comes first, and wetlands contiguous to these flowing waters.

- Aboveground portions of disappearing rivers.

- Man-made ditches only insofar as they perennially flow into other surface water.

- Intermittently flowing waters and contiguous intermittently flowing ditches only in arid or semiarid areas with less than 20 inches of mean annual precipitation.

Lakes include:

- Natural and man-made lakes (including impoundments) that lie along rivers, but excluding the Great Lakes.

- Isolated, but perennial, lakes, ponds, and wetlands.

- Static water channels or oxbow lakes contiguous to rivers.

- Small rivers, without diking, that merge into surrounding perennially inundated wetlands.

- Wetlands contiguous to water bodies defined here as lakes.

Ocean and ocean-like water bodies include:

- Ocean areas seaward from the baseline of the Territorial Sea. (This baseline represents the generalized coastline of the United States. It is parallel to the seaward limit of the Territorial Sea and other maritime limits such as the inner boundary of Federal fisheries jurisdiction and the limit of States jurisdiction under the Submerged Lands Act, as amended.)

- The Great Lakes.

- Wetlands contiguous to the Great Lakes.

Coastal tidal waters include:

- Embayments, harbors, sounds, estuaries, back bays, lagoons, wetlands, etc. seaward from mouths of rivers and landward from the baseline of the Territorial Sea.
