
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Runoff.

4.1.2.1.2.1.2Evaluate runoff based on three components: rainfall, drainage area, and soil group.

Rainfall. Determine the 2-year, 24-hour rainfall for the site. Use site-specific, 2-year, 24-hour rainfall data if records are available for at least 20 years. If such site-specific data are not available, estimate the 2-year, 24-hour rainfall for the site from a rainfall-frequency map. Do not round the rainfall value to the nearest integer.

Drainage area. Determine the drainage area for the sources at the site. Include in this drainage area both the source areas and the area upgradient of the sources, but exclude any portion of this drainage area for which runoff is diverted from entering the sources by storm sewers or run-on control and/or runoff management systems. Assign a drainage area value for the watershed from table 4-3.

Soil group. Based on the predominant soil group within the drainage area described above, assign a soil group designation for the watershed from table 4-4 as follows:

- Select the predominant soil group as that type which comprises the largest total area within the applicable drainage area.

- If a predominant soil group cannot be delineated, select that soil group in the drainage area that yields the highest value for the runoff factor.

Calculation of runoff factor value. Assign a combined rainfall/runoff value for the watershed from table 4-5, based on the 2-year, 24-hour rainfall and the soil group designation. Determine the runoff factor value for the watershed from table 4-6, based on the rainfall/runoff and drainage area values. Enter the runoff factor value in table 4-1.
