
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Nearest intake.

4.1.2.3.1Evaluate the nearest intake factor based on the drinking water intakes along the overland/flood hazardous substance migration path for the watershed. Include standby intakes in evaluating this factor only if they are used for supply at least once a year.

Assign the nearest intake factor a value as follows and enter the value in table 4-1:

- If one or more of these drinking water intakes is subject to Level I concentrations as specified in section 4.1.2.3, assign a factor value of 50.

- If not, but if one or more of these drinking water intakes is subject to Level II concentrations, assign a factor value of 45.

- If none of these drinking water intakes is subject to Level I or Level II concentrations, determine the nearest of these drinking water intakes, as measured from the probable point of entry (or from the point where measurement begins for contaminated sediments with no identified source). Assign a dilution weight from table 4-13 to this intake, based on the type of surface water body in which it is located. Multiply this dilution weight by 20, round the product to the nearest integer, and assign it as the factor value.

Assign the dilution weight from table 4-13 as follows:

- For a river (that is, surface water body types specified in table 4-13 as minimal stream through very large river), assign a dilution weight based on the average annual flow in the river at the intake. If available, use the average annual discharge as defined in the U.S. Geological Survey Water Resources Data Annual Report. Otherwise, estimate the average annual flow.

- For a lake, assign a dilution weight as follows:

- For the ocean and the Great Lakes, assign a dilution weight based on depth.

- For coastal tidal waters, assign a dilution weight of 0.0001; do not consider depth or flow.

- For a quiet-flowing river that has average annual flow of 10 cubic feet per second (cfs) or greater and that contains the probable point of entry to surface water, apply a zone of mixing in assigning the dilution weight:
