
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Population.

4.1.2.3.2In evaluating the population factor, include only persons served by drinking water drawn from intakes that are along the overland/flood hazardous substance migration path for the watershed and that are within the target distance limit specified in section 4.1.1.2. Include residents, students, and workers who regularly use the water. Exclude transient populations such as customers and travelers passing through the area. When a standby intake is maintained on a regular basis so that water can be withdrawn, include it in evaluating the population factor.

In estimating residential population, when the estimate is based on the number of residences, multiply each residence by the average number of persons per residence for the county in which the residence is located.

In estimating the population served by an intake, if the water from the intake is blended with other water (for example, water from other surface water intakes or ground water wells), apportion the total population regularly served by the blended system to the intake based on the intake's relative contribution to the total blended system. In estimating the intake's relative contribution, assume each well or intake contributes equally and apportion the population accordingly, except: if the relative contribution of any one intake or well exceeds 40 percent based on average annual pumpage or capacity, estimate the relative contribution of the wells and intakes considering the following data, if available:

- Average annual pumpage from the ground water wells and surface water intakes in the blended system.

- Capacities of the wells and intakes in the blended system.

For systems with standby surface water intakes or standby ground water wells, apportion the total population regularly served by the blended system as described above, except:

- Exclude standby ground water wells in apportioning the population.

- When using pumpage data for a standby surface water intake, use average pumpage for the period during which the standby intake is used rather than average annual pumpage.

- For that portion of the total population that could be apportioned to a standby surface water intake, assign that portion of the population either to that standby intake or to the other surface water intake(s) and ground water well(s) that serve that population; do not assign that portion of the population both to the standby intake and to the other intake(s) and well(s) in the blended system. Use the apportioning that results in the highest population factor value. (Either include all standby intake(s) or exclude some or all of the standby intake(s) as appropriate to obtain this highest value.) Note that the specific standby intake(s) included or excluded and, thus, the specific apportioning may vary in evaluating different watersheds and in evaluating the ground water pathway.
