
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Persistence.

4.1.2.2.1.2Assign a persistence factor value to each hazardous substance. In assigning this value, evaluate persistence based primarily on the half-life of the hazardous substance in surface water and secondarily on the sorption of the hazardous substance to sediments. The half-life in surface water is defined for HRS purposes as the time required to reduce the initial concentration in surface water by one-half as a result of the combined decay processes of biodegradation, hydrolysis, photolysis, and volatilization. Sorption to sediments is evaluated for the HRS based on the logarithm of the n-octanol-water partition coefficient (log K) of the hazardous substance.

Estimate the half-life (t) of a hazardous substance as follows:

If one or more of these four component half-lives cannot be estimated for the hazardous substance from available data, delete that component half-life from the above equation. If none of these four component half-lives can be estimated for the hazardous substance from available data, use the default procedure indicated below. Estimate a half-life for the hazardous substance for lakes or for rivers, oceans, coastal tidal waters, and Great Lakes, as appropriate.

If a half-life can be estimated for a hazardous substance:

- Assign that hazardous substance a persistence factor value from the appropriate portion of table 4-10 (that is lakes; or rivers, oceans, coastal tidal waters, and Great Lakes).

- Select the appropriate portion of table 4-10 as follows:

If a half-life cannot be estimated for a hazardous substance from available data, use the following default procedure to assign a persistence factor value to that hazardous substance:

- For those hazardous substances that are metals (or metalloids), assign a persistence factor value of 1 as a default for all surface water bodies.

- For other hazardous substances (both organic and inorganic), assign a persistence factor value of 0.4 as a default for rivers, oceans, coastal tidal waters, and Great Lakes, and a persistence factor value of 0.07 as a default for lakes. Select the appropriate value in the same manner specified for using table 4-10.

Use the persistence factor value assigned based on half-life or the default procedure unless the hazardous substance can be assigned a higher factor value from Table 4-11, based on its Log K. If a higher value can be assigned from table 4-11, assign this higher value as the persistence factor value for the hazardous substance.
