
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Drinking water threat-targets.

4.1.2.3Evaluate the targets factor category for each watershed based on three factors: nearest intake, population, and resources.

To evaluate the nearest intake and population factors, determine whether the target surface water intakes are subject to actual or potential contamination as specified in section 4.1.1.2. Use either an observed release based on direct observation at the intake or the exposure concentrations from samples (or comparable samples) taken at or beyond the intake to make this determination (see section 4.1.2.1.1). The exposure concentrations for a sample (that is, surface water, benthic, or sediment sample) consist of the concentrations of those hazardous substances present that are significantly above background levels and attributable at least in part to the site (that is, those hazardous substance concentrations that meet the criteria for an observed release).

When an intake is subject to actual contamination, evaluate it using Level I concentrations or Level II concentrations. If the actual contamination is based on an observed release by direct observation, use Level II concentrations for that intake. However, if the actual contamination is based on an observed release from samples, determine which level applies for the intake by comparing the exposure concentrations from samples (or comparable samples) to health-based benchmarks as specified in sections 2.5.1 and 2.5.2. Use the health-based benchmarks from table 3-10 (section 3.3.1) in determining the level of contamination from samples. For contaminated sediments with no identified source, evaluate the actual contamination using Level II concentrations (see section 4.1.1.2).
