
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Bioaccumulation potential.

4.1.3.2.1.3Use the following data hierarchy to assign a bioaccumulation potential factor value to each hazardous substance:

- Bioconcentration factor (BCF) data.

- Logarithm of the n-octanol-water partition coefficient (log K) data.

- Water solubility data.

If BCF data are available for any aquatic human food chain organism for the substance being evaluated, assign the bioaccumulation potential factor value to the hazardous substance as follows:

- If BCF data are available for both fresh water and salt water for the hazardous substance, use the BCF data that correspond to the type of water body (that is, fresh water or salt water) in which the fisheries are located to assign the bioaccumulation potential factor value to the hazardous substance.

- If, however, some of the fisheries being evaluated are in fresh water and some are in salt water, or if any are in brackish water, use the BCF data that yield the higher factor value to assign the bioaccumulation potential factor value to the hazardous substance.

- If BCF data are available for either fresh water or salt water, but not for both, use the available BCF data to assign the bioaccumulation potential factor value to the hazardous substance.

If BCF data are not available for the hazardous substance, use log Kdata to assign a bioaccumulation potential factor value to organic substances, but not to inorganic substances. If BCF data are not available, and if either log Kdata are not available, the log Kis available but exceeds 6.0, or the substance is an inorganic substance, use water solubility data to assign a bioaccumulation potential factor value.

If none of these data are available, assign the hazardous substance a bioaccumulation potential factor value of 0.5.
