
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Level I concentrations.

4.1.3.3.2.1Determine those fisheries (or portions of fisheries) within the watershed that are subject to Level I concentrations.

Estimate the human food chain population value for each fishery (or portion of a fishery) as follows:

- Estimate human food chain production for the fishery based on the estimated annual production (in pounds) of human food chain organisms (for example, fish, shellfish) for that fishery, except: if the fishery is closed and a hazardous substance for which the fishery has been closed has been documented in an observed release to the fishery from a source at the site, use the estimated annual production for the period prior to closure of the fishery or use the estimated annual production from comparable fisheries that are not closed.

- Assign the fishery a value for human food chain population from table 4-18, based on the estimated human food production for the fishery.

- Set boundaries between fisheries at those points where human food chain production changes or where the surface water dilution weight changes.

Sum the human food chain population value for each fishery (and portion of a fishery). Multiply this sum by 10. If the product is less than 1, do not round it to the nearest integer; if 1 or more, round to the nearest integer. Assign the resulting value as the Level I concentrations factor value. Enter this value in table 4-1.
