
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Ecosystem toxicity.

4.1.4.2.1.1Assign an ecosystem toxicity factor value from Table 4-19 to each hazardous substance on the basis of the following data hierarchy:

- EPA chronic Ambient Water Quality Criterion (AWQC) for the substance.

- EPA chronic Ambient Aquatic Life Advisory Concentrations (AALAC) for the substance.

- EPA acute AWQC for the substance.

- EPA acute AALAC for the substance.

- Lowest LCvalue for the substance.

In assigning the ecosystem toxicity factor value to the hazardous substance:

- If either an EPA chronic AWQC or AALAC is available for the hazardous substance, use it to assign the ecosystem toxicity factor value. Use the chronic AWQC in preference to the chronic AALAC when both are available.

- If neither is available, use the EPA acute AWQC or AALAC to assign the ecosystem toxicity factor value. Use the acute AWQC in preference to the acute AALAC.

- If none of the chronic and acute AWQCs and AALACs is available, use the lowest LCvalue to assign the ecosystem toxicity factor value.

- If an LCvalue is also not available, assign an ecosystem toxicity factor value of 0 to the hazardous substance and use other hazardous substances for which data are available in evaluating the pathway.

If an ecosystem toxicity factor value of 0 is assigned to all hazardous substances eligible to be evaluated for the watershed (that is, insufficient data are available for evaluating all the substances), use a default value of 100 as the ecosystem toxicity factor value for all these hazardous substances.

With regard to the AWQC, AALAC, or LCselected for assigning the ecosystem toxicity factor value to the hazardous substance:

- If values for the selected AWQC, AALAC, or LCare available for both fresh water and marine water for the hazardous substance, use the value that corresponds to the type of water body (that is, fresh water or salt water) in which the sensitive environments are located to assign the ecosystem toxicity factor value to the hazardous substance.

- If, however, some of the sensitive environments being evaluated are in fresh water and some are in salt water, or if any are in brackish water, use the value (fresh water or marine) that yields the higher factor value to assign the ecosystem toxicity factor value to the hazardous substance.

- If a value for the selected AWQC, AALAC, or LCis available for either fresh water or marine water, but not for both, use the available one to assign an ecosystem toxicity factor value to the hazardous substance.
