
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Potential contamination.

4.1.4.3.1.3Assign value(s) from table 4-23 to each sensitive environment subject to potential contamination. Do not include sensitive environments already counted for table 4-23 under the Level I or Level II concentrations factors.

For each type of surface water body in table 4-13 (section 4.1.2.3.1), sum the value(s) assigned from table 4-23 to the sensitive environments along that type of surface water body, except: do not use the surface water body type "3-mile mixing zone in quiet flowing river." If a sensitive environment is along two or more types of surface water bodies (for example, Wildlife Refuge contiguous to both a moderate stream and a large river), assign the sensitive environment only to that surface water body type having the highest dilution weight value from table 4-13.

For those sensitive environments that are wetlands, assign an additional value from table 4-24. In assigning a value from table 4-24, include only those portions of wetlands located along the hazardous substance migration path in the area of potential contamination, as specified in section 4.1.4.3.1.1. Aggregate these wetlands by type of surface water body, except: do not use the surface water body type "3-mile mixing zone in quiet flowing river." Treat the wetlands aggregated within each type of surface water body as separate sensitive environments solely for purposes of applying table 4-24. Estimate the total length of the wetlands within each surface water body type as specified in section 4.1.4.3.1.1, except: for an isolated wetland or for a wetland where the probable point of entry to surface water is in the wetland, use the perimeter of that portion of the wetland subject to potential contamination (or the portion of that perimeter that is within the target distance limit) as the length. Assign a separate value from table 4-24 for each type of surface water body in the watershed.

Calculate the potential contamination factor value (SP) for the watershed as follows:

If SP is less than 1, do not round it to the nearest integer; if SP is 1 or more, round to the nearest integer. Enter this value for the potential contamination factor in table 4-1.
