
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 52.02 Introduction.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(d) All approved plans and plan revisions listed in subparts B through DDD and FFF of this part and on file at the Office of the Federal Register are approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Notice of amendments to the plans will be published in theThe plans and plan revisions are available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:In addition the plans and plan revisions are available at the following locations:

(1) Office of Air and Radiation, Docket and Information Center (Air Docket), EPA, 401 M St., SW., Room M1500, Washington, DC 20460.

(2) The appropriate EPA Regional Office as listed below:

(i) Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 1, 5 Post Office Square-Suite 100, Boston, MA 02109-3912.

(ii) New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 2, 290 Broadway, New York, NY 10007-1866.

(iii) Delaware, District of Columbia, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 3, 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2029.

(iv) Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 4, 61 Forsyth Street, Atlanta, Georgia 30303.

(v) Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604-3507.

(vi) Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 6, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270-2102.

(vii) Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 7, 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, Kansas 66219.

(viii) Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop Street, Denver, CO 80202-1129.

(ix) Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 9, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105.

(x) Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 10, 1200 6th Avenue Seattle, WA 98101.

(e) Each State's plan is dealt with in a separate subpart, which includes an introductory section identifying the plan by name and the date of its submittal, a section classifying regions, and a section setting forth dates for attainment of the national standards. Additional sections are included as necessary to specifically identify disapproved provisions, to set forth reasons for disapproval, and to set forth provisions of the plan promulgated by the Administrator. Except as otherwise specified, all supplemental information submitted to the Administrator with respect to any plan has been submitted by the Governor of the State.

(f) Revisions to applicable plans will be included in this part when approved or promulgated by the Administrator.
