
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Vertical migration.

5.2.1.1.2.3Evaluate the vertical migration factor for each area of subsurface contamination based on the geologic materials in the interval between the lowest point of a regularly occupied structure and the highest known point of hazardous substances in the subsurface. Use any regularly occupied structure either within an area of subsurface contamination or overlying subsurface soil gas or ground water contamination. Assign a value to the vertical migration factor as follows:

- If the depth to contamination (see section 5.2.1.1.2.2) is 10 feet or less, assign a value of 15.

- If the depth to contamination is greater than 10 feet, do not consider layers or portions of layers within the first 10 feet of the depth to contamination (as assigned in section 5.2.1.1.2.2).

- If, for the interval between the lowest point of a regularly occupied structure and the highest point of hazardous substances in the subsurface, all layers that underlie a portion of a regularly occupied structure at the site are karst or otherwise allow channelized flow, assign a value of 15.

- Otherwise:

Determine vertical migration only at locations within an area of subsurface contamination at the site. If the necessary subsurface geologic information is available at multiple locations, evaluate the vertical migration factor at each location. Use the location having the highest vertical migration factor value to assign the factor value. Enter this value in Table 5-11.
