
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Targets.

5.2.1.3Evaluate the targets factor category for the subsurface intrusion threat based on three factors: Exposed individual, population, and resources in regularly occupied structures with structure containment factors greater than 0. Evaluate only those targets within areas of observed exposure and areas of subsurface contamination (see section 5.2.0).

In evaluating the targets factor category for the subsurface intrusion threat, count only the following as targets:

- Exposed individual-a person living, attending school or day care, or working in a regularly occupied structure with observed exposure or in a structure within an area of observed exposure or within an area of subsurface contamination.

- Population-exposed individuals in a regularly occupied structure within an area of observed exposure or within an area of subsurface contamination.

- Resources-located within an area of observed exposure or within an area of subsurface contamination as specified in section 5.2.1.3.3.

If a formerly occupied structure has been vacated due to subsurface intrusion attributable to the site, count the initial targets as if they were still residing in the structure. In addition, if a removal or temporary response action has occurred that has not completely mitigated the release, count the initial targets as if the removal or temporary response action has not permanently interrupted target exposure from subsurface intrusion. Evaluate those targets based on conditions at the time of removal of temporary response action.

For populations residing in or working in a multi-subunit structure with multiple stories in an area of observed exposure or area of subsurface contamination, count these targets as follows:

- If there is no observed exposure within the structure, include in the evaluation only those targets, if any, in the lowest occupied level. If sufficient structure-specific concentration data is available and state of the science shows there is no unacceptable risk of exposure to targets in the lowest level, those targets are not included in the evaluation.

- If there is an observed exposure in any level, include in the evaluation those targets in that level, the level above and all levels below. (The weighting of these targets is specified in Section 5.2.1.3.2.) If sufficient structure-specific concentration data is available and state of the science shows there is no unacceptable risk of exposure to targets in the level above where the observed exposure has been documented, those targets are not included in the evaluation.
