
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Hazardous waste quantity.

5.2.1.2.2Assign a hazardous waste quantity factor value as specified in section 2.4.2. Consider only those regularly occupied structures or subunits with a non-zero structure containment value. Also include all regularly occupied structures or subunits that have had mitigation systems installed as part of a removal or other temporary response action. If sufficient structure-specific concentration data is available and state of the science shows there is no unacceptable risk of exposure to populations in a regularly occupied structure or subunit in an area of subsurface contamination, that structure or subunit is not included in the hazardous waste quantity evaluation. In estimating the hazardous waste quantity, use Tables 2-5 and 5-19 and:

- For Tier A, hazardous constituent quantity, use the mass of constituents found in the regularly occupied structure(s) where the observed exposure has been identified.

- For Tier B, hazardous wastestream quantity, use the flow-through volume of the regularly occupied structures where the observed exposure has been identified.

- For Tier C, volume, use the volume divisor listed in Tier C of Table 5-19. Volume is calculated for those regularly occupied structures located within areas of observed exposure with observed or inferred intrusion and within areas of subsurface contamination.

- For Tier D, area, if volume is unknown, use the area divisor listed in Tier D of Table 5-19 for those regularly occupied structures within areas of observed exposure with observed or inferred intrusion and within areas of subsurface contamination.

For the subsurface intrusion component, if the hazardous constituent quantity is adequately determined for all areas of observed exposure, assign the value from Table 2-6 as the hazardous waste quantity factor value. If the hazardous constituent quantity is not adequately determined for one or more areas of observed exposure or if one or more areas of subsurface contamination are present, assign either the value from Table 2-6 or assign a factor value as follows:

- If any target for the subsurface intrusion component is subject to Level I or Level II concentrations (see section 2.5), assign either the value from Table 2-6 or a value of 100, whichever is greater, as the hazardous waste quantity factor value for this component.

- If none of the targets for the subsurface intrusion component is subject to Level I or Level II concentrations and if there has been a removal action that does not permanently interrupt target exposure from subsurface intrusion, and if an area of subsurface contamination exists, assign a factor value as follows:

- Otherwise, if none of the targets for the subsurface intrusion component is subject to Level I or Level II concentrations and there has not been a removal action, assign a value from Table 2-6 or a value of 10, whichever is greater.

Enter the value assigned in Table 5-11.
