
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Targets.

6.3

Evaluate the targets factor category based on four factors: nearest individual, population, resources, and sensitive environments. Include only those targets (for example, individuals, sensitive environments) located within the 4-mile target distance limit, except: if an observed release is established beyond the 4-mile target distance limit, include those additional targets that are specified below in this section and in section 6.3.4.

Evaluate the nearest individual and population factors based on whether the target populations are subject to Level I concentrations, Level II concentrations, or potential contamination. Determine which applies to a target population as follows.

If no samples meet the criteria for an observed release to air and if there is no observed release by direct observation, consider the entire population within the 4-mile target distance limit to be subject to potential contamination.

If one or more samples meet the criteria for an observed release to air or if there is an observed release by direct observation, evaluate the population as follows:

- Determine the most distant sample location that meets the criteria for Level I concentrations as specified in sections 2.5.1 and 2.5.2 and the most distant location (that is, sample location or direct observation location) that meets the criteria for Level II concentrations. Use the health-based benchmarks from table 6-14 in determining the level of contamination for sample locations. If the most distant Level II location is closer to a source than the most distant Level I sample location, do not consider the Level II location.

- Determine the single most distant location (sample location or direct observation location) that meets the criteria for Level I or Level II concentrations.

- If this single most distant location is within the 4-mile target distance limit, identify the distance categories from table 6-15 in which the selected Level I concentrations sample and Level II concentrations sample (or direct observation location) are located:

- If the single most distant location is beyond the 4-mile target distance limit, identify the distance at which the selected Level I concentrations sample and Level II concentrations sample (or direct observation location) are located:
