
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Potential contamination.

6.3.4.2Determine those sensitive environments located, partially or wholly, within the target distance limit that are subject to potential contamination. Assign value(s) from table 4-23 to each sensitive environment subject to potential contamination. Do not include those sensitive environments already counted for table 4-23 under the actual contamination factor.

For each distance category subject to potential contamination, sum the value(s) assigned from table 4-23 to the sensitive environments in that distance category. If a sensitive environment is located in more than one distance category, assign the sensitive environment only to that distance category having the highest distance weighting value from table 6-15.

For those sensitive environments that are wetlands, assign an additional value from table 6-18. In assigning a value from table 6-18, include only those portions of wetlands located within distance categories subject to potential contamination, as specified in section 6.3.4.1. Treat the wetlands in each separate distance category as separate sensitive environments solely for purposes of applying table 6-18. Determine the total acreage of wetlands within each of these distance categories and assign a separate value from table 6-18 for each distance category.

Calculate the potential contamination factor value (EP) as follows:

If EP is less than 1, do not round it to the nearest integer; if EP is 1 or more, round to the nearest integer. Enter the value assigned in table 6-1.
