
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix A to Part 300 - The Hazard Ranking System
###### Calculation of air migration pathway score.

6.4Multiply the values for likelihood of release, waste characteristics, and targets, and round the product to the nearest integer. Then divide by 82,500. Assign the resulting value, subject to a maximum value of 100, as the air migration pathway score (S). Enter this score in table 6-1.

In general, radioactive substances are hazardous substances under CERCLA and should be considered in HRS scoring. Releases of certain radioactive substances are, however, excluded from the definition of "release" in section 101(22) of CERCLA, as amended, and should not be considered in HRS scoring.

Evaluate sites containing radioactive substances using the instructions specified in sections 2 through 6, supplemented by the instructions in this section. Those factors denoted with a "yes" in table 7-1 are evaluated differently for sites containing radioactive substances than for sites containing only nonradioactive hazardous substances, while those denoted with a "no" are not evaluated differently and are not addressed in this section.

In general, sites containing mixed radioactive and other hazardous substances involve more evaluation than sites containing only radionuclides. For sites containing mixed radioactive and other hazardous substances, HRS factors are evaluated based on considerations of both the radioactive substances and the other hazardous substances in order to derive a single set of factor values for each factor category in each of the four pathways. Thus, the HRS score for these sites reflects the combined potential hazards posed by both the radioactive and other hazardous substances.

Section 7 is organized by factor category, similar to sections 3 through 6. Pathway-specific differences in evaluation criteria are specified under each factor category, as appropriate. These differences apply largely to the soil exposure and subsurface intrusion pathway and to sites containing mixed radioactive and other hazardous substances. All evaluation criteria specified in sections 2 through 6 must be met, except where modified in section 7.
