
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### i.e.

1. Prepare 4 replicates (same test oil and dispersant), one control (, no dispersant), and one method blank and run at the same time on the shaker table.

2. Add 120+/-2 ml of synthetic seawater to each of the modified 125-ml glass Erlenmeyer flasks. Measure and record the water temperature.

3. Place the flasks securely into the attached slot on the shaker table.

4. Carefully add 100 µl of an oil-dispersant solution onto the center of the water's surface using a positive displacement pipette.

5. Agitate the flasks for 20+/-1 minutes at 150+/-10 rpm on the shaker table.

6. After the 20+/-1 minutes shaking, remove the flasks from the shaker table and allow them to remain stationary for 10+/-1 minutes for oil droplet "settling."

7. At the conclusion of the 10-minute settling period, carefully decant a 30-ml sample through the side spout of the test flasks into a 50-ml graduated cylinder.

8. Transfer the samples from the graduated cylinder into a 125- or 250-ml glass separatory funnel fitted with a Teflon stopcock.

9. Add 5 ml of pesticide-quality DCM to the separatory funnel and shake vigorously for 15 seconds. Release the pressure carefully from the separatory funnel through the stopcock into a fume hood.

10. Allow the funnel to remain in a stationary position for 2 minutes to allow phase-separation of the water and DCM.

11. Drain the DCM layer from the separatory funnel into a glass-stoppered, 25-ml graduated glass cylinder.

12. Repeat the DCM-extraction process two additional times.

13. Combine the three extracts in the graduated cylinder and adjust the final volume to 20-ml with additional DCM.

14. Analyze the samples using a UV-spectrophotometer at 340, 370, and 400 nm-wavelengths and determine the quantity of oil as follows:

15. Obtain three concentration values for oil in each experimental water sample (340, 370, and 400 nm).

16. Determine the mean of three values as follows:
