
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Menidia beryllina.

3.2.1.1Obtain fish (silversides) from a single source for each series of toxicity tests. In-house cultures are recommended wherever it is cost-effective; however, organisms are available from commercial suppliers. Information on the source of test organisms and any known unusual condition to which fish were exposed before use should be included in the data report. Use of animals previously treated with pesticides or chemotherapeutic agents should be avoided. Organisms should not be used if they appear to be unhealthy, discolored, or show signs of stress. Use 7-day old larval fish. Fish should be cultured in accordance with the methods outlined in Middaugh, et al. (5). There should be no need to acclimate organisms to the 25+/-1 &#xB0;C temperature recommended for the toxicity tests if laboratory stock cultures of Menidia are maintained at the recommended culture temperature of 25+/-1 &#xB0;C. If test organisms must be obtained from a commercial source, it may become necessary to acclimate test fish to the test temperature of 25+/-1 &#xB0;C, a pH of 8.0+/-0.2, and 20+/-2 ppt salinity since changes in temperature may occur during shipping. Eliminate groups of fish having a mortality of more than 10% during the first 48 hours, and more than 5% thereafter. During acclimation, organisms should be maintained on a diet of freshly hatched Artemia (brine shrimp) nauplii. Feed the fish daily to satiation during the acclimation period, and once daily during the 96-hour test. Care should be taken daily to remove excess food and fecal material from beakers during the test. Use only those organisms that feed actively and that appear to be healthy. Organisms should be free of disease, external parasites, and any signs of physical damage or stress. Discard any fish injured or dropped while handling.
