
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Mysidopsis.

3.4.6.1To have the mysids ready for study, mysids may be sorted 24 hours prior to initiation of the 48-hour test. Transfer the mysids to a beaker containing a small volume of water; this vessel serves as a holding chamber during randomized transfer of the organisms to test solutions. Mysids are randomly selected from the batch of mysids in the holding chamber, and transferred to 50-ml beakers containing a small volume of seawater. One mysid is added per beaker using a small piece of flexible 500-µm screening until all of the beakers contain one mysid. The process of random selection and sorting is continued until the appropriate number of mysids has been delivered to each of the 50-ml beakers. The mysids are gently released from the 50-ml beakers into larger beakers filled with an appropriate volume of 20-ppt seawater (25 &#xB0;C) to bring the total volume to 200 ml. The beakers are randomly placed into a temperature-controlled water bath to acclimate overnight at 25 &#xB0;C. The mysids are transferred to larger beakers (1-liter) for the 48-hour test after the addition of 800 ml of the test solution. A total of 10 mysids per beaker are used for 48-hour acute toxicity tests. A minimum of two replicate chambers are used for each test concentration and control.
