
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Test duration and observations.,Menidia.

3.4.73.4.7.1Observe the number of dead fish in each test container and record at the end of each 24-hour period. Fish are considered dead upon cessation of respiratory and all other overt movements, whether spontaneous or in response to mild mechanical prodding. Remove dead fish as soon as observed. Also note and report when the behavior of test fish deviates from that of control fish. Such behavioral changes would include variations in opercular movement, coloration, body orientation, movement, depth in container, schooling tendencies, and others. Abnormal behavior of the test organisms (especially during the first 24 hours) is a desirable parameter to monitor in a toxicity test because changes in behavior and appearance may precede mortality. Toxicants can reduce an organism's ability to survive natural stresses. In these cases, the mortality is not directly attributed to the toxicant, but most certainly is an indirect effect. Reports on behavioral changes during a toxicity test can give insight into the non-acute effects of the tested material. At the end of the 96-hour period, terminate the fish tests and determine the LCvalues. The acute toxicity test is terminated after four days of exposure. The number of surviving fish are counted and recorded for each chamber in accordance with standard EPA methods (6). The LCis calculated using survival data from the test in accordance with the methods described in the guidelines (6).
