
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Mysidopsis.

3.5.23.5.2.1 To prepare test solutions for products and oil/product mixtures, blend or mix the test solutions with an electric blender having: speeds of 10,000 rpm or less; a stainless-steel cutting assembly; and a 1-liter borosilicate jar. To minimize foaming, blend at speeds below 10,000 rpm.

3.5.2.2 For the product test solution, add 550 ml of the synthetic seawater to the jar, then with the use of a gas-tight calibrated glass syringe with a Teflon-tipped plunger, add 0.55 ml of the product and mix for 5 seconds.

3.5.2.3 For the oil test solution, add 550 ml of the synthetic seawater to the jar. Then with the use of a gas-tight calibrated glass syringe equipped with a Teflon-tipped plunger, add 0.55 ml of the oil and mix for 5 seconds.

3.5.2.4 For the oil/product mixture, add 550 ml of the synthetic seawater to the mixing jar. While the blender is in operation, add 0.5 ml of the oil under study with the use of a calibrated syringe with a Teflon-tipper plunger and then 0.05 ml of the product as indicated above. Blend for 5 seconds after addition of product. These additions provide test solutions of the product, oil, and the oil/product mixture at concentrations of 1,000 ppm.

3.5.2.5 Immediately after the test solutions are prepared, draw up the necessary amount of test solution with a gas-tight Teflon-tipped glass syringe of appropriate size and dispense into each of the five containers in each series. If the series of five concentrations to be tested are 10, 18, 32, 56, and 100 ppm, the amount of the test solution in the order of the concentrations listed above would be as follows: 10, 18, 32, 56, and 100 ml.

3.5.2.6 Each time a syringe is to be filled for dispensing to the series of test containers, start the mixer and withdraw the desired amount in the appropriate syringe while the mixer is in operation. Turn off immediately after the sample is taken to limit the loss of volatiles.

3.5.2.7 Use exploratory tests before the full-scale test is set up to determine the concentration of toxicant to be used in each of the five different concentrations. After adding the required amounts of liquid, bring the volume in each of the test containers up to 800 ml with the artificial seawater. To ensure keeping each of the series separate, designate on the lid of each container the date, the material under test, and its concentration.
