
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 52.16 Submission to Administrator.

(a) All requests, reports, applications, submissions, and other communications to the Administrator pursuant to this part shall be submitted in duplicate and addressed to the appropriate Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency. For any submission pursuant to this part that is also a submission of a plan or plan revision pursuant to 40 CFR part 51, the submission shall conform to the requirements of appendix V to 40 CFR part 51, rather than the requirements of this paragraph.

(b) The Regional Offices are as follows:

(1) Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont. EPA Region 1, 5 Post Office Square-Suite 100, Boston, MA 02109-3912.

(2) New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands. EPA Region 2, 290 Broadway, New York, NY 10007-1866.

(3) Delaware, District of Columbia, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia. EPA Region 3, 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2029.

(4) Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. EPA Region 4, 61 Forsyth Street, Atlanta, Georgia 30303.

(5) Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin. EPA Region 5, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604-3507.

(6) Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 6, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270-2102.

(7) Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 7, 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, Kansas 66219.

(8) Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming. EPA, Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop Street, Denver, CO 80202-1129.

(9) Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam. EPA, Region 9, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105.

(10) Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. EPA, Region 10, 1200 6th Avenue, Seattle, WA 98101.
