
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Summary of procedures.,Menidia:

3.73.7.1

1. Prepare adequate stocks of the appropriate standard dilution water.

2. Add 2 liters of the standard dilution water to the test jars. Each test consists of 5 replicates of each of 5 concentrations of the test material, a control series of 5 beakers, and a standard reference series of 5 different concentrations for a total of 35 beakers. Simultaneous performance of toxicity tests on the oil, product, and oil/product mixture requires a total of 105 beakers.

3. Add the determined amount (quarter points on the log scale) of test material to the appropriate jars. Preliminary tests will be necessary to define the range of definitive test concentrations.

4. Cap the jars tightly with the Teflon-lined screw caps and shake for 5 minutes at 315 to 333 2-cm (0.75-inch) strokes per minute on a reciprocal shaker.

5. Remove the jars from the shaker, take water quality data, dispense 1 liter of solution to the 1-liter glass beaker, and add 10 acclimated fish per beaker.

6. Aerate with 100+/-15 bubbles per minute through a 1-ml serological pipette, as needed, to maintain DO above 4.0 mg/l.

7. Observe and record mortalities, water quality, and behavioral changes every 24 hours.

8. After 96 hours, terminate the test, and calculate LCvalues and corresponding confidence limits.
