
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Mysidopsis:

3.7.2

1. Initiate the procedure for hatching the Mysidopsis in sufficient time before the toxicity test is to be conducted so that 5-7 day old larvae are available.

2. With the use of a small pipette, transfer 10 Mysidopsis into small beakers, each containing 200 ml of the proper synthetic seawater.

3. To prepare the test stock product and oil solutions, add 550 ml of the artificial seawater to the prescribed blender jar. By means of a gas-tight glass syringe with a Teflon-tipped plunger, add 0.55 ml of the product (or oil) and mix at 10,000 rpm for 5 seconds. To prepare the test stock oil/product mixture, add 550 ml of the standard seawater to the blender jar. While the blender is in operation (10,000 rpm), add 0.5 ml of the oil, then 0.05 ml of the product with the use of a calibrated syringe with a Teflon-tipped plunger. Blend for 5 seconds after adding the product. One ml of these stock solutions added to the 100 ml of standard seawater in the test containers yields a concentration of 10 ppm product, oil, or oil/product combination (the test will be in a ratio of 1 part product to 10 parts of oil).

4. Each test consists of 5 replications of each of 5 concentrations of the material under study, a control series of 5 beakers and a standard reference series of 5 different concentrations, for a total of 35 beakers. Simultaneous performance of toxicity tests on the oil, product, and oil/product mixture requires a total of 105 beakers. Immediately after preparing the test solution of the product or oil/product solution, and using an appropriately sized syringe, draw up the necessary amount of test solution and dispense into each of the five containers in each series. Each time a syringe is to be filled for dispensing to the series of test containers, start the mixer and withdraw the desired amount in the appropriate syringe while the mixer is in operation. Turn mixer off immediately after the sample is taken to limit the loss of volatiles. After adding the required amount of the test oil/product or product mixture, bring the volume of liquid in each of the test containers up to 800 ml with the artificial seawater. When the desired concentrations have been prepared, gently release into each beaker the 10 mysids previously transferred into 200 ml of medium. This provides a volume of 1 liter in each test chamber.

5. Wash the blender as prescribed for each series of tests.

6. Incubate the test beakers at 25+/-1 &#xB0;C for 48 hours with the prescribed lighting.

7. Terminate the experiment after 48 hours, observe and record the mortalities, and determine the LCs and corresponding confidence limits.
