
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Nutrient preparation:

4.3.3.1

1. N&P Salts. The following salts are added to distilled water and made up to a 1,000-ml volume. Adjust final pH to 7.8. The solution is sterilized by autoclaving at 121 &#xB0;C at 15 psig for 20 minutes or by filtering through a sterile 0.22 µm membrane filter.

2. MgSO.7HO solution. Dissolve 22.50 g in 1,000 ml distilled water. The solution is sterilized by autoclaving at 121 &#xB0;C at 15 psig for 20 minutes.

3. CaClsolution. Dissolve 27.50 g in 1,000 ml of distilled water. The solution is sterilized by autoclaving at 121 &#xB0;C at 15 psig for 20 minutes.

4. FeCl-6HO solution. Dissolve 0.25 g in 1,000 ml of distilled water. The solution is sterilized by autoclaving at 121 &#xB0;C at 15 psig for 20 minutes.

5. Trace Element Solution. The following salts are added to distilled water and made up to a 1,000-ml volume. The solution is sterilized by autoclaving at 121 &#xB0;C at 15 psig for 20 minutes.

The pH of the nutrient solution is adjusted with a pH meter calibrated at room temperature (approximately 25 &#xB0;C) using commercial buffers of pH 4.0, 7.0, and 10.0 (Fisher Scientific), as appropriate, prior to use. The pH is adjusted with concentrated HCl or 10 M NaOH, as appropriate.
