
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Experimental setup.

4.4.1

4.4.1.1 The procedure consists of an experimental shaker flask setup and the specific set of microbiological and chemical analyses that are performed on individual product samples. The following test flasks (labeled with unique identifiers) are prepared and set up on a gyratory shaker at day 0 to reflect the following treatment design:

4.4.1.2 For each test, a sheet listing the number of flasks, types of controls, number of replicates, product to be tested, and other information is prepared. The following steps should be adhered to for the experimental setup:

1. Borosilicate glass Erlenmeyer flasks (250-ml) are thoroughly cleaned and autoclaved for 20 minutes at 120 &#xB0;C at 15 psi, then dried in the drying oven.

2. Flasks are labeled with the appropriate code: product or control, sample day, and letter indicating replicate.

3. 100 ml of seawater is added to each flask.

4. For nutrient and product treatments that require the addition of nutrients, seawater containing the nutrient solution is prepared.

5. Pasteur pipettes should be sterilized in advance. Break off the tip to provide a larger opening prior to sterilization.

6. Pour the approximate amount of oil to be used from the large stock bottle into a sterile beaker. Keep the beaker covered when oil is not being removed.

7. The labeled flasks containing seawater and other additions, as necessary, are placed on the balance. The flask is tared. The appropriate amount of oil (0.5 g) is added drop by drop using a sterile Pasteur pipette with the tip broken off to provide a wider opening. Care is taken to avoid splashing the oil or getting it on the sides of flasks. Precautions are taken when handling and charging the flasks to minimize the likelihood of contamination by exogenous microbes. This includes using a new sterile pipette for each series of flasks.

8. The weight of the oil is recorded in the laboratory notebook.

9. The product is prepared and added to the appropriate flasks according to the manufacturer's or vendor's instructions.

10. Flasks are carried upright and carefully placed in the holders on the shaker table to minimize the amount of oil that might adhere to the side of the flasks. Flasks in which a significant amount of oil is splashed on the sides are redone.

11. The prepared flasks are shaken at 200 rpm at 20 &#xB0;C until such time that they will be removed for sampling.
