
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Summary of method.

4.1The bioremediation agent effectiveness testing protocol is designed to determine a product's ability to biodegrade oil by quantifying changes in the oil composition resulting from biodegradation. The protocol tests for microbial activity and quantifies the disappearance of saturated hydrocarbons and polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). The sample preparation procedure extracts the oil phase into dichloromethane (DCM), with a subsequent solvent exchange into hexane. To effectively accomplish the goals of the testing protocol, it is necessary to normalize the concentration of the various analytes in oil to a non-biodegradable marker, either C-or C-phenanthrene, C-chrysene, or hopane(7). The test method targets the relatively easy to degrade normal alkanes and the more resistant and toxic PAHs. It normalizes their concentrations to C-or C-phenanthrene, C-chrysene, or C17&#x3B1;(H), 21&#x3B2; (H)-hopane on an oil weight basis (mg marker/kg oil, mg target analyte/kg oil). The analytical technique uses a high resolution gas chromatograph/mass spectrometer (GC/MS) because of its high degree of chemical separation and spectral resolution. GC/MS has long been used to study the weathering and fate of oil spilled into the environment. For quantitative analyses, the instrument is operated in the selective ion detection (SIM) mode at a scan rate of greater than 1.5 scans per second to maximize the linear quantitative range and precision of the instrument. The sample preparation method does not exclude analysis of selected samples by GC/MS in the full scanning mode of operation to qualitatively assess changes in the oil not accounted for by the SIM approach. Performed concurrently with the chemical analysis described above is a microbiological analysis. The microbiological analysis is performed to determine and monitor the viability of the microbial cultures being studied. Under this procedure, microbial enumerations of hydrocarbon degraders are performed at each sampling event using a microtiter Most Probable Number (MPN) determination.
