
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### GC/MS analysis.

4.6.3Often, analysis of saturated and aromatic hydrocarbons by capillary gas chromatography of DCM extracts leads to column fouling and deterioration of separation characteristics. An alternative, simple "one-step" alumina sample cleanup procedure can be performed on oil before injection; this cleanup removes both asphaltenes and polar compounds and can be applied to DCM extracts as well. This procedure is described in steps 1-11 below.

1. Weigh 4.0 g alumina (neutral, 80-200 mesh) into scintillation vials covered loosely with aluminum foil caps. Prepare one scintillation vial per sample. Heat for 18 hours at 300 &#xB0;C or longer. Place in a desiccator of silica until needed.

2. Add 5.0 ml of DCM to a glass luerlok multi-fit syringe (e.g., BD #2471) with stopcock (e.g., Perfectum #6021) in closed position, stainless steel syringe needle (18 gauge), and PTFE frits. Clamp in a vertical position.

3. Transfer 4.0 g of prepared alumina to a plastic weighing boat and fill syringe slowly while applying continuous vibration (e.g., Conair # HM 11FF1).

4. Add a second PTFE frit and push into place on top of the alumina bed.

5. Drain 5.0 ml DCM to the top level of the column frit to await sample addition and discard DCM.

6. Weigh 50 mg +/-0.1 mg ANS521 oil into a tared vial.

7. Premeasure 10 ml of DCM into a graduated cylinder. Add 0.2 to 0.3 ml of the DCM to the tared oil vial. Mix and transfer solvent to the column bed with a Pasteur pipette. Open stopcock and collect in a 10-ml volumetric flask. Repeat until approximately 1.0 ml (do not exceed 1.0 ml) of DCM has rinsed the vial and inner walls of the syringe body into the 10-ml flask.

8. Transfer balance of DCM from the graduated cylinder to the column and regulate the solvent flow rate to approximately 1 to 2 ml/minute. Collect all eluent in the 10-ml flask.

9. Transfer a known volume of eluent to another scintillation vial and blow down to dryness (nitrogen).

10. Determine and record weight.

11. Dissolve in 1.0 ml hexane for the GC/MS analysis procedure (see below).

Immediately prior to injection, an internal standard solution of four deuterated compounds is spiked into the sample extracts and injected. Samples are quantified using the internal standard technique (10) for both the aliphatic and aromatic fractions of the oil extracts in order to provide sufficient information that the oil is being degraded. To help ensure that the observed decline in target analytes is caused by biodegradation rather than by physical loss from mishandling or inefficient extraction, it is necessary to normalize the concentrations of the target analytes via a "conserved internal marker." Conserved internal markers that have been found useful for quantification are C- or C-phenanthrene, C-chrysene, and C17&#x3B1;(H),21&#x3B2;(H)-hopane. Deuterated internal standards are used to calculate the relative response factor (RRF) for the target analyte(s). To compute the "normalized concentrations," the target analyte concentration at a given sampling time is simply divided by the selected conserved analyte concentration at the same sampling time (11). Conduct the GC/MS analysis using the following procedure.

1. One (1) ml of the hexane extract (from Sample Procedure step 15 above) is placed into a 1.5-ml vial for use on the autosampler of the GC/MS instrument.

2. To this solution, 20 µl of a 500-ng/µl solution of the internal standards is added and the vial is capped for injection. The final concentration of the internal standards in each sample is 10 ng/µl. This solution contains 4 deuterated compounds: d-naphthalene, d-anthracene, d-chrysene, and d-perylene.

3. At the start of any analysis period, the mass spectrometer (MS) is tuned to PFTBA by an autotune program, such as the Hewlett-Packard quicktune routine, to reduce operator variability. Set the GC/MS in the SIM mode at a scan rate of 1.5 scans/second to maximize the linear quantitative range and precision of the instrument. Set all other conditions to those specified in Instrument Configuration and Calibration section below.

4. An instrument blank and a daily standard are analyzed prior to analysis of unknowns. Internal standards are combined with the sample extracts and coinjected with each analysis to monitor the instrument's performance during each run.

5. Information that should be included on the acquisition form include operator's name and signature, date of extraction, date and time of autotune, date of injection(s), instrument blank, daily standard mix injection, GC column number, and standards for the 5-point calibration curve.

6. If the instrument is operated for a period of time greater than 12 hours, the tune will be checked and another daily standard analyzed prior to continuing with analyses.

7. The MS is calibrated using a modified version of EPA Method 8270 (10). Specifically, the concentrations of internal standards are 10 ng/µl instead of 40 ng/µl. A five-point calibration curve is obtained for each compound listed in table 6 prior to sample analysis at 1, 5, 10, 25, and 50 ng/µl. A 5-point calibration must be conducted on a standard mix of compounds to determine RRFs for the analytes. The standard mix (excluding the marker) for this calibration curve may be obtained from Absolute Standards, Inc., 498 Russell St., New Haven, CT, 06513, (800) 368-1131. If C17&#x3B2;(H),21&#x3B1;(H)-hopane is used, it may be obtained from Dr. Charles Kennicutt II, Geochemical and Environmental Research Group, Texas A&M University, 833 Graham Rd., College Station, TX, 77845, (409) 690-0095.

8. Calculate each compound's relative response factor to its corresponding deuterated internal standard indicated above, using the following equation:

9. Identify each analyte based on the integrated abundance from the primary characteristic ion indicated in table 7.

10. Quantitate each analyte using the internal standard technique. The internal standard used shall be the one nearest the retention time of that of a given analyte (Table 8).

11. Use equation 7 to calculate the concentration of analytes in ng/mg (ppm) oil:

12. Compute the "normalized concentrations" for each target analyte concentration at a given sampling time (equation 7) by simply dividing by the conserved internal marker concentration at the same sampling time.
