
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Gravimetric analysis.

4.6.2The initial means to evaluate the effectiveness of a bioremediation agent for oil spill response is through gravimetric analysis. A statistically significant difference (p <0.05) in analytical weight of the oil from the control system as compared to the analytical weight of the oil treated with a bioremediation agent indicates biodegradation has successfully occurred. Hence, the disappearance of oil should be accompanied by significant decreases in total oil residue weight of extractable materials versus a control. If no significant decrease in oil residue weight is observed, the need to perform further chemical analysis should be evaluated. Follow steps 1-3 to conduct the gravimetric analysis.

1. The 10 ml of DCM extract (from Sample Procedure step 8 above) is placed in a small vial and concentrated to dryness by nitrogen blowdown techniques using a steady stream of nitrogen (pre-purified gas). If the oil is severely biodegraded, a larger volume of DCM (>10 ml) may be necessary for the gravimetric analysis.

2. The residue is weighed 3 times for the gravimetric weight of oil. Record the weight of the oil.

3. Compare statistically (p <0.05) the weight of the product treatment versus the weight of the control from each respective time period. If a significant decrease is observed in the sampling (flask containing bioremediation agent) weight, then proceed with the remainder of the sample procedure.
