
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Sample procedure.

4.6.1After 0, 7, and 28 days of incubation on a rotary shaker, the appropriate flasks are sacrificed and extracted with dichloromethane and spiked with a surrogate recovery standard. A 10-ml aliquot of the DCM layer is used for the gravimetric analysis. If significant biodegradation is evident in the results of the gravimetric analysis, then a solvent exchange into hexane takes place prior to the GC/MS analysis. Follow steps 1-19 below when preparing for the chemical analysis.

1. After 0, 7, and 28 days of rotary shaking and incubating at 20 &#xB0;C, the reaction vessels are sacrificed. Prior to the chemical analysis, a 0.5-ml sample of the aqueous phase is removed for the microbiological analysis (see Microbial Enumeration above).

2. A surrogate recovery standard is prepared in the following manner: 1,000 mg of d-phenanthrene and 1,000 mg of 5&#x3B1;-androstane are measured into a 500-ml volumetric flask and DCM is added to the mark to produce a 2,000-ng/µl stock solution.

3. A 100-µl aliquot of the surrogate solution is added to each test flask. The final concentration of surrogates in each flask is approximately 4 ng/µl of solvent in the final extract. The aliphatics and marker data should be corrected for percent recovery of the 5&#x3B1;-androstane surrogate and the aromatics for the d-phenanthrene surrogate.

4. The contents of the flask are placed into a 250-ml separatory funnel.

5. Measure a total volume of 50 ml DCM for use in the extraction. Use 3 10-ml fractions to rinse the flask into the funnel and transfer the remaining aliquot of DCM to the funnel.

6. Stopper and mix vigorously by shaking (approximately 50 times) while ventilating properly.

7. Each funnel is set aside to allow the DCM and water layers to partition. This may take 5-10 minutes for some products, or up to 3 hours if the product has caused the formation of an emulsion.

8. Drain the first 10 ml of the DCM (bottom) layer, collect, cap, uniquely label, and use for gravimetric analysis (see below). Drain the remaining 40 ml and dry it by passing it through a funnel packed with anhydrous sodium sulfate.

9. Assemble a Kuderna-Danish (KD) concentrator by attaching a Snyder column to an evaporation flask with a graduated concentrator tube. Align vertically and partially immerse concentrator tube in a water bath (10). Set the water bath to the appropriate temperature to maintain proper distillation.

10. Collect the de-watered extract into the KD concentrator.

11. Evaporate DCM to approximately 10 ml, then add approximately 50 ml of the exchange solvent (hexane) and concentrate the volume to 10 ml.

12. Rinse the flask into the concentrator tube with 50 ml hexane and concentrate to 10 ml. Repeat one more time with 50 ml of hexane.

13. Remove concentrator tube with the recovered 10 ml of sample volume. The heavier residual material should be present as a precipitate (bottom layer).

14. Centrifuge to aid the separation of the hexane from the precipitant fraction.

15. Place hexane-soluble fraction (top layer)-approximately 1.0 ml-into a GC/MS vial for analysis (see GC/MS Analysis Procedure below). If column fouling and deterioration of separation characteristics occur, an alumina column sample cleanup method can be considered (see Alternative GC/MS Sample Cleanup Procedure below).

16. Analyze by GC/MS using the conditions determined by the U.S. EPA Risk Reduction Engineering Laboratory, Water and Hazardous Waste Treatment Research Division, in Cincinnati, OH, which follows U.S. EPA Method 8270 (see GC/MS Analysis Procedure below).

17. Calculate surrogate recovery. If surrogate recovery is less than 85 percent for the marker relative to the surrogate recovery standard (d-phenanthrene), then the water layer should be extracted again using three separate extractions with DCM. Pool the three extractions with original extract and concentrate to 10 ml, and reanalyze by GC/MS.

18. Drain the seawater into a storage sample vial/container.

19. Seal the vial with a Teflon-lined cap and store frozen. This water layer is kept in case additional extractions are necessary.
