
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater

1. Prior to sacrificing each flask, remove 0.5 ml of water from each flask and add it to a tube of 4.5 ml sterile phosphate buffer (1:10 dilution) as prepared in the(9). Using sterile technique, mix and perform serial dilutions (0.5 ml of previous dilution to 4.5 ml of sterile phosphate buffer) to 10dilution.

1. Prepare sufficient sterile 0.4 M NaCl (23.4 g NaCl/1,000 ml B-H) and B-H at pH 7.0 to fill the number of wells required for the test (1.75 ml/well).

2. Using sterile technique, add 1.75 ml of B-H broth to each well.

3. Label the top of the plate with the proper dilution for each row.

4. Add 0.1 ml of fluid from each dilution tube to each well in the appropriate row, starting with the most dilute.

5. After adding the fluid to all the wells, add 20 µl of sterilized No. 2 fuel oil to the top of each well.

6. Incubate each plate at 20 &#xB0;C.

7. After 14 days of incubation, add 100 µl of p-iodotetrazolium violet dye (50 mg/10 ml of D.I. water) to each well to determine growth.

8. View plates against a white background to determine if color is present. Development of a purple or pink color upon standing for 45 minutes constitutes a positive test.

9. Record the number of positive wells and the dilutions at which they occur.

10. Enter data into a computerized enumeration method using "MPN Calculator" software program (version 2.3 or higher) by Albert J. Klee, U.S. EPA Office of Research and Development, Risk Reduction Engineering Laboratory, Cincinnati, OH.
