
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### QA/QC procedures.

4.6.5The reliability of this method is dependent on the QA/QC procedures followed. Before and after each analytical batch (approximately 10 samples), analyze one procedural blank, one duplicate, and one calibration verification standard (10 ng/µl). Analyze one reference crude oil standard. The instrument's performance and reproducibility are validated routinely in this manner. Surrogate recoveries should be within 70 to 120%, and duplicate relative percent difference values should be +/-20%. A control chart of the standard oil should be prepared and monitored. Variations of analytes in the control chart should be no more than 25% from the historical averages. Injection port discrimination for n-C25 and greater alkanes must be carefully monitored; the ratio of RRF n-C32/RRF n-C21 alkanes should not be allowed to fall below 80%. The mass discrimination can be reduced by replacing the quartz liner in the injection port after every analytical batch. The instrument's performance and reproducibility are validated routinely by analyzing the reference crude oil standard. All analyses are recorded in instrument logs detailing operating conditions, date and time, file name, etc. After analysis, the sample extracts are archived at refrigeration temperatures. To document QA/QC, the following information is contained in the detailed quantitative reports: average RRF derived from the standard curve; RRF from the daily standard; percent relative standard deviation; area of target analyte; concentration determined both on a weight and volume basis; and values for any surrogates and internal standards.
