
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Data analysis methods.

4.7.2For each analyte and each product used, a product is considered a success by the demonstration of a statistically significant difference between the mean analyte degradation by the product and the mean analyte degradation by the non-nutrient control. Such a determination will be made by performing an ANOVA on the sample data. The technical aspects of this procedure are outlined in Snedecor and Cochran (12). Most statistical software packages support the use of two-way ANOVA. However, the format required for the input data differs among the various commercial packages. Whichever package is used, the following ANOVA table will be provided as part of the output. In the Degree of Freedom column of table 10, p = the number of product/control groups, t = the number of days at which each group is analyzed, and n = the number of replications. For the example of the 2 x 3 factorial experiment discussed above, p = 2, t = 3, and n = 3. The significance of the F-statistics (as indicated by their corresponding p-values) are used to interpret the analysis.
