
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### i.e.,i.e.

4.7.3.2 If the F-statistic for the interaction is not significant at the 0.05 level (, p-value not less than 0.05), but the F-statistic for the group is significant (, p-value is less than 0.05), the data indicate that any differences that exist among the group means are consistent across time. To find out which group means differ, a pairwise comparison of the group means should be carried out by pooling data across all points in time. Again, the MSE from the two-way ANOVA table should be used to compute the separation values.

4.7.3.3 If the F-statistic corresponding to both interaction and group are not significant at the 0.05 level, the data indicate no difference between the group means at any point in time. In this case, no further analysis is necessary.

4.7.3.4 Finally, Snedecor and Cochran (12) use caution concerning the use of multiple comparisons. If many such comparisons are being conducted, then about 5% of the tested differences will erroneously be concluded as significant. The researcher must guard against such differences causing undue attention.
