
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Required documentation.

4.7.44.7.4.1 The following documents should be included to summarize the findings from a product test.

1. Data listings for each analyte that was analyzed. These should show all raw data.

2. A table of summary statistics for each analyte. The table should include the mean, standard deviation, and sample size for each group at each day.

3. An ANOVA table for each analyte. The table should be of the same format as table 10.

4. A clear summary of the mean separations (if mean separations were necessary). The mean separation methods (LSD or Dunnett), the significance level, the minimum significant difference value, and the significant differences should be clearly marked on each output page.

5. All computer outputs should be included. No programming alterations are necessary. The specific computer package used to analyze the data should be included in the report.

4.7.4.2 The raw data are shown in table 11. Note the three replications for each group-time combination.

4.7.4.3 Table 12 gives the summary statistics (number of observations, means, and standard deviations) for each group-time combination.

4.7.4.4 Table 13 shows the results of the two-way ANOVA.

4.7.4.5 From table 13, it can be seen that the F-statistic for interaction is significant (F = 61.39, p = 0.0001). This indicates that group differences exist for one or more days. Protected LSD mean separations were then conducted for each day to determine which group differences exist. The results are summarized in table 14. Note that means with the same letter (T grouping) are not significantly different.

4.7.4.6 The grouping letters indicate that the product mean values (group 3) at day 7 and day 28 are significantly different from those of both the nutrient control (group 2) and the non-nutrient control (group 1) for those days. No other significant differences are shown. Therefore, in terms of total aromatic degradation, the test indicates the desired statistically significant difference between the mean of the product and the mean of the non-nutrient control.

The purpose of this format is to summarize in a standard and convenient presentation the technical product test data required by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency before a product may be added to EPA's NCP Product Schedule, which may be used in carrying out the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan. This format, however, is not to preclude the submission of all the laboratory data used to develop the data summarized in this format. Sufficient data should be presented on both the effectiveness and toxicity tests to enable EPA to evaluate the adequacy of the summarized data. A summary of the technical product test data should be submitted in the following format. The numbered headings should be used in all submissions. The subheadings indicate the kinds of information to be supplied. The listed subheadings, however, are not exhaustive; additional relevant information should be reported where necessary. As noted, some subheadings may apply only to particular types of agents.
