
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix C to Part 300 - Swirling Flask Dispersant Effectiveness Test, Revised Standard Dispersant Toxicity Test, and Bioremediation Agent Effectiveness Test
###### Effectiveness (bioremediation agents).

VIII.(a).Raw data must be reported according to the format shown below. The first column lists the names of the analytes measured by GC/MS (SIM), the surrogate standards, and various ratios and sums. In the next three columns, the concentration of the analytes (ng/mg oil), the concentration of the analytes corrected for the recovery of the surrogate standard (&#x3B1;-androstane for alkanes, d-phenanthrene for aromatics), and the concentration of corrected analytes normalized against the conserved internal marker, respectively, are reported for the first replicate from the first sampling event. These three columns are each repeated for the next two replicates, giving 9 total columns for the product of interest. The next 9 columns are the same as the product columns except they are for the non-nutrient control. The last nine columns are for the nutrient control. Thus, a total of 28 columns are needed in the spreadsheet. This spreadsheet is for the first sampling event (day 0). Two more identical spreadsheets will be needed for each of the next two sampling events (days 7 and 28). For the statistical analysis, a report showing the two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) table created by the software used by the investigator must be shown in its entirety along with the name of the software package used. Another printout showing the mean separation table (protected LSD test results) generated by the software must be reported. The statistical analyses are conducted using the sum of the alkane concentrations and the sum of the aromatics concentrations from the raw data table. Thus, two ANOVAs are run for each sampling event, one for total alkanes and one for total aromatics, giving a total of 6 ANOVAs for a product test (2 ANOVAs x 3 sampling events). Only if significant differences are detected by a given ANOVA will it be necessary to run a protected LSD test.
