
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix E to Part 300 - Oil Spill Response
###### 1.2 Purpose/objective.

This document compiles general oil discharge response requirements into one appendix to aid participants and responders under the national response system (NRS). This appendix provides the organizational structure and procedures to prepare for and respond to oil discharges. Nothing in this appendix alters the meaning or policy stated in other sections or subparts of the NCP.

(a) This appendix applies to discharges of oil into or upon the navigable waters of the United States and adjoining shorelines, the waters of the contiguous zone, or waters of the exclusive economic zone, or which may affect the natural resources belonging to, appertaining to, or under the exclusive management authority of the United States.

(b) This appendix is designed to facilitate efficient, coordinated, and effective response to discharges of oil in accordance with the authorities of the CWA. It addresses:

(1) The national response organization that may be activated in response actions, the responsibilities among the federal, state, and local governments, and the resources that are available for response.

(2) The establishment of regional and area contingency plans.

(3) Procedures for undertaking removal actions pursuant to section 311 of the CWA.

(4) Listing of federal trustees for natural resources for purposes of the CWA.

(5) Procedures for the participation of other persons in response actions.

(6) Procedures for compiling and making available cost documentation for response actions.

(7) National procedures for the use of dispersants and other chemicals in removals under the CWA.

(c) In implementing the NCP provisions compiled in this appendix, consideration shall be given to international assistance plans and agreements, security regulations and responsibilities based on international agreements, federal statutes, and executive orders. Actions taken pursuant to the provisions of any applicable international joint contingency plans shall be consistent with the NCP to the greatest extent possible. The Department of State shall be consulted, as appropriate, prior to taking action that may affect its activities.
