
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix E to Part 300 - Oil Spill Response
###### 3.1.1 National response team.

(a) National planning and coordination is accomplished through the NRT. The NRT consists of representatives from the USCG, EPA, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Department of Defense (DOD), Department of Energy (DOE), Department of Agriculture (DOA), Department of Commerce (DOC), Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Department of the Interior (DOI), Department of Justice (DOJ), Department of Labor (DOL), Department of Transportation (DOT), Department of State (DOS), Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and General Services Administration (GSA). Each agency shall designate a member to the team and sufficient alternates to ensure representation, as agency resources permit. The NRT will consider requests for membership on the NRT from other agencies. Other agencies may request membership by forwarding such requests to the chair of the NRT (see Figure 1).

(b) The chair of the NRT shall be the representative of the EPA and the vice chair shall be the representative of the USCG, with the exception of periods of activation because of response action. During activation, the chair shall be the member agency providing the OSC. The vice chair shall maintain records of NRT activities along with national, regional, and area plans for response actions.

(c) While the NRT desires to achieve a consensus on all matters brought before it, certain matters may prove unresolvable by this means. In such cases, each agency serving as a participating agency on the NRT may be accorded one vote in NRT proceedings.

(d) The NRT may establish such bylaws, procedures, and committees as it deems appropriate to further the purposes for which it is established.

(e) The NRT shall evaluate methods of responding to discharges, shall recommend any changes needed in the response organization, and shall recommend to the Administrator of EPA changes to the NCP designed to improve the effectiveness of the national response system, including drafting of regulatory language.

(f) The NRT shall provide policy and program direction to the RRTs.

(g) The NRT may consider and make recommendations to appropriate agencies on the training, equipping, and protection of response teams and necessary research, development, demonstration, and evaluation to improve response capabilities.

(h) Direct planning and preparedness responsibilities of the NRT include:

(1) Maintaining national preparedness to respond to a major discharge of oil that is beyond regional capabilities;

(2) Monitoring incoming reports from all RRTs and activating for a response action, when necessary;

(3) Coordinating a national program to assist member agencies in preparedness planning and response, and enhancing coordination of member agency preparedness programs;

(4) Developing procedures, in coordination with the NSFCC, as appropriate, to ensure the coordination of federal, state, and local governments, and private response to oil discharges;

(5) Monitoring response-related research and development, testing, and evaluation activities of NRT agencies to enhance coordination, avoid duplication of effort, and facilitate research in support of response activities;

(6) Developing recommendations for response training and for enhancing the coordination of available resources among agencies with training responsibilities under the NCP;

(7) Reviewing regional responses to oil discharges, including an evaluation of equipment readiness and coordination among responsible public agencies and private organizations; and

(8) Assisting in developing a national exercise program, in coordination with the NSFCC to ensure preparedness and coordination nationwide.

(i) The NRT shall consider matters referred to it for advice or resolution by an RRT.

(j) The NRT should be activated as an emergency response team:

(1) When an oil discharge:

(A) Exceeds the response capability of the region in which it occurs;

(B) Transects regional boundaries; or

(C) Involves a substantial threat to the public health or welfare, substantial amounts of property, or substantial threats to natural resources;

(2) If requested by any NRT member.

(k) When activated for a response action, the NRT will meet at the call of the chair and may:

(1) Monitor and evaluate reports from the OSC and recommend to the OSC, through the RRT, actions to combat the discharge;

(2) Request other federal, state and local governments, or private agencies, to provide resources under their existing authorities to combat a discharge, or to monitor response operations; and

(3) Coordinate the supply of equipment, personnel, or technical advice to the affected region from other regions or districts.
