
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix E to Part 300 - Oil Spill Response
###### 2.3 Responsibility.

(a) The predesignated OSC has the responsibility to direct response actions and coordinate all other response efforts at the scene of an oil discharge or threatened discharge. The OSC monitors or directs all federal, state, local, and private removal actions, or arranges for the removal of an actual or threatened oil discharge, removing and if necessary, requesting authority to destroy a vessel. Additionally, the CWA requires the OSC to direct all federal, state, local, and private removal actions to any incident that poses a substantial threat to the public health or welfare.

(b) Cleanup responsibility for an oil discharge immediately falls on the responsible party, unless the discharge poses a substantial threat to public health or welfare. In a large percentage of oil discharges, the responsible party shall conduct the cleanup. If the responsible party does conduct the removal, the OSC shall ensure adequate surveillance over whatever actions are initiated.

(1) If effective actions are not being taken to eliminate the threat, or if removal is not being properly done, the OSC should, to the extent practicable under the circumstances, so advise the responsible party. If the responsible party does not respond properly, the OSC shall take appropriate response actions and should notify the responsible party of the potential liability for federal response costs incurred by the OSC pursuant to the OPA and CWA. Where practicable, continuing efforts should be made to encourage response by responsible parties.

(2) If the Administrator of EPA or the Secretary of the department in which the USCG is operating determines that there may be an imminent and substantial threat to the public health or welfare or the environment of the United States (including fish, shellfish, and wildlife, public and private property, shorelines, beaches, habitats, and other living and nonliving natural resources under the jurisdiction or control of the United States, because of an actual or threatened discharge of oil from any vessel or offshore or onshore facility into or upon the navigable waters of the United States), the Administrator or Secretary may request the U.S. Attorney General to secure the relief from any person, including the owner or operator of the vessel or facility necessary to abate a threat or, after notice to the affected state, take any other action authorized by section 311 of the CWA including administrative orders, that may be necessary to protect the public health or welfare.

(3) The responsible party is liable for costs of federal removal and damages in accordance with section 311(f) of the CWA, section 1002 of the OPA, and other federal laws.

(c) In those incidents where a discharge or threat of discharge poses a substantial threat to the public health or welfare of the United States, the OSC shall direct all federal, state, or private actions to remove the discharge or to mitigate or prevent the threat of such a discharge, as appropriate. The OSC shall also request immediate activation of the RRT.

(d) During responses to any discharge the OSC may request advice or support from the Special Teams and any local support units identified by the Area Committee. Examples include scientific advice from the Scientific Support Coordinator (SSC), technical guidance or prepositioned equipment from the District Response Group (DRG), or public information assistance from the National Strike Force (NSF).

(e) When an oil discharge exceeds the response capability of the region in which it occurs, transects regional boundaries, or involves a substantial threat to the public health or welfare, substantial amounts of property, or substantial threats to the natural resources, the NRT should be activated as an emergency response team. If appropriate the RRT Chairman may contact the NRT Chairman and request the NRT activation.

The NRS is the mechanism for coordinating response actions by all levels of government in support of the OSC. The NRS organization is divided into national, regional, and area levels. The national level comprises the NRT, the National Strike Force Coordination Center (NSFCC), and the National Response Center (NRC). The regional level is comprised of the RRT. The area level is made up of the OSC, Special Teams, and Area Committees. The basic framework for the response management structure is a system (e.g., a unified command system), that brings together the functions of the federal government, the state government, and the responsible party to achieve an effective and efficient response, where the OSC retains authority.
