
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix E to Part 300 - Oil Spill Response
###### 3.1.2 National response center.

(a) The NRC, located at USCG Headquarters, is the national communications center, continuously manned for handling activities related to response actions, including those involving discharges of oil. The NRC acts as the single point of contact for all pollution incident reporting, and as the NRT communications center. Notice of discharges must be made by telephone through a toll free number or a special number (Telecommunication Device for the Deaf (TDD) and collect calls accepted). Upon receipt of a notification of discharge, the NRC shall promptly notify the OSC. The telephone report is distributed to any interested NRT member agency or federal entity that has established a written agreement or understanding with the NRC.

(b) The Commandant, USCG, in conjunction with other NRT agencies, provides the necessary personnel, communications, plotting facilities, and equipment for the NRC.

(c) Notice of an oil discharge in an amount equal to or greater than the reportable quantity must be made immediately in accordance with 33 CFR part 153, subpart B. Notification will be made to the NRC Duty Officer, HQ USCG, Washington, DC, telephone (800) 424-8802 or (202) 267-2675. All notices of discharges received at the NRC will be relayed immediately by telephone to the OSC.
