
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix E to Part 300 - Oil Spill Response
###### 3.3.3 Special teams.

(a) Special teams include: NOAA/EPA's SSCs; EPA's Environmental Response Team (ERT); and USCG's NSF; DRGs; and NPFC (see Figure 2).

(b) SSCs may be designated by the OSC as the principal advisors for scientific issues, communication with the scientific community, and coordination of requests for assistance from state and federal agencies regarding scientific studies. The SSC strives for a consensus on scientific issues affecting the response, but ensures that differing opinions within the community are communicated to the OSC.

(1) Generally, SSCs are provided by NOAA in the coastal zones, and by EPA in the inland zone. OSC requests for SSC support may be made directly to the SSC assigned to the area or to the agency member of the RRT. NOAA SSCs may also be requested through NOAA's SSC program office in Seattle, WA. NOAA SSCs are assigned to USCG Districts and are supported by a scientific support team that includes expertise in environmental chemistry, oil slick tracking, pollutant transport modeling, natural resources at risk, environmental tradeoffs of countermeasures and cleanup, and information management.

(2) During a response, the SSC serves on the federal OSC's staff and may, at the request of the OSC, lead the scientific team and be responsible for providing scientific support for operational decisions and for coordinating on-scene scientific activity. Depending on the nature and location of the incident, the SSC integrates expertise from governmental agencies, universities, community representatives, and industry to assist the OSC in evaluating the hazards and potential effects of releases and in developing response strategies.

(3) At the request of the OSC, the SSC may facilitate the OSC's work with the lead administrative trustee for natural resources to ensure coordination between damage assessment data collection efforts and data collected in support of response operations.

(4) SSCs support the RRTs and the Area Committees in preparing regional and area contingency plans and in conducting spill training and exercises. For area plans, the SSC provides leadership for the synthesis and integration of environmental information required for spill response decisions in support of the OSC.

(c)(1) SUPSALV has an extensive salvage/search and recovery equipment inventory with the requisite knowledge and expertise to support these operations, including specialized salvage, firefighting, and petroleum, oil and lubricants offloading capability.

(2) When possible, SUPSALV will provide equipment for training exercises in support of national and regional contingency planning objectives.

(3) The OSC/RPM may request assistance directly from SUPSALV. Formal requests are routed through the Chief of Naval Operations (N312).

(d) The ERT is established by the EPA in accordance with its disaster and emergency responsibilities. The ERT has expertise in treatment technology, biology, chemistry, hydrology, geology and engineering.

(1) The ERT can provide access to special decontamination equipment and advice to the OSC in hazard evaluation; risk assessment; multimedia sampling and analysis program; on-site safety, including development and implementation plans; cleanup techniques and priorities; water supply decontamination and protection; application of dispersants; environmental assessment; degree of cleanup required; and disposal of contaminated material. The ERT also provides both introductory and intermediate level training courses to prepare response personnel.

(2) OSC or RRT requests for ERT support should be made to the EPA representative on the RRT; EPA Headquarters, Director, Emergency Response Division; or the appropriate EPA regional emergency coordinator.

(e) The NSF is a special team established by the USCG, including the three USCG Strike Teams, the Public Information Assist Team (PIAT), and the NSFCC. The NSF is available to assist OSCs in their preparedness and response duties.

(1) The three Strike Teams (Atlantic, Gulf, and Pacific) provide trained personnel and specialized equipment to assist the OSC in training for spill response, stabilizing and containing the spill, and in monitoring or directing the response actions of the responsible parties and/or contractors. The OSC has a specific team designated for initial contact and may contact that team directly for any assistance.

(2) The NSFCC can provide the following support to the OSC:

-Technical assistance, equipment and other resources to augment the OSC staff during spill response;

-Assistance in coordinating the use of private and public resources in support of the OSC during a response to or a threat of a worst case discharge of oil;

-Review of the ACP, including an evaluation of equipment readiness and coordination among responsible public agencies and private organizations;

-Assistance in locating spill response resources for both response and planning, using the NSFCC's national and international computerized inventory of spill response resources;

-Coordination and evaluation of pollution response exercises; and

-Inspection of district prepositioned pollution response equipment.

(3) PIAT is an element of the NSFCC staff which is available to assist OSCs to meet the demands for public information during a response or exercise. Its use is encouraged any time the OSC requires outside public affairs support. Requests for PIAT assistance may be made through the NSFCC or NRC.

(f)(1) The DRG assists the OSC by providing technical assistance, personnel, and equipment, including pre-positioned equipment. Each DRG consists of all Coast Guard personnel and equipment, including marine firefighting equipment, in its district, additional pre-positioned equipment, and a District Response Advisory Team (DRAT) that is available to provide support to the OSC in the event that a spill exceeds local response capabilities. Each DRG:

(A) Shall provide technical assistance, equipment, and other resources as available when requested by an OSC through the USCG representative to the RRT;

(B) Shall ensure maintenance of all USCG response equipment within its district;

(C) May provide technical assistance in the preparation of the ACP; and

(D) Shall review each of those plans that affect its area of geographic responsibility.

(2) In deciding where to locate personnel and pre-positioned equipment, the USCG shall give priority emphasis to:

(A) The availability of facilities for loading and unloading heavy or bulky equipment by barge;

(B) The proximity to an airport capable of supporting large military transport aircraft;

(C) The flight time to provide response to oil spills in all areas of the Coast Guard district with the potential for marine casualties;

(D) The availability of trained local personnel capable of responding in an oil spill emergency; and

(E) Areas where large quantities of petroleum products are transported.

(g) The NPFC is responsible for implementing those portions of Title I of the OPA that have been delegated to the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating. The NPFC is responsible for addressing funding issues arising from discharges and threats of discharges of oil. The NPFC:

(1) Issues Certificates of Financial Responsibility to owners and operators of vessels to pay for costs and damages that are incurred by their vessels as a result of oil discharges; (2) Provides funding for various response organizations for timely abatement and removal actions related to oil discharges;

(3) Provides equitable compensation to claimants who sustain costs and damages from oil discharges when the responsible party fails to do so;

(4) Recovers monies from persons liable for costs and damages resulting from oil discharges to the full extent of liability under the law; and

(5) Provides funds to initiate natural resources damage assessment.

(h) The organizational concepts of the national response system discussed above are depicted in Figure 3.
