
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix E to Part 300 - Oil Spill Response
###### 4.5 Area response drills.

The OSC periodically shall conduct drills of removal capability (including fish and wildlife response), without prior notice, in areas for which ACPs are required and under relevant tank vessel and facility response plans.

(a) The OSC shall direct response efforts and coordinate all other efforts at the scene of a discharge. As part of the planning and preparation for response, OSCs shall be predesignated by the regional or district head of the lead agency.

(b) The first federal official affiliated with an NRT member agency to arrive at the scene of a discharge should coordinate activities under the NCP and is authorized to initiate, in consultation with the OSC, any necessary actions normally carried out by the OSC until the arrival of the predesignated OSC. This official may initiate federal OSLTF-financed actions only as authorized by the OSC or, if the OSC is unavailable, the authorized representative of the lead agency.

(c) The OSC shall, to the extent practicable, collect pertinent facts about the discharge, such as its source and cause; the identification of responsible parties; the nature, amount, and location of discharged materials; the probable direction and time of travel of discharged materials; whether the discharge is a worst case discharge; the pathways to human and environmental exposure; the potential impact on human health, welfare, and safety and the environment; whether the discharge poses a substantial threat to the public health or welfare; the potential impact on natural resources and property which may be affected; priorities for protecting human health and welfare and the environment; and appropriate cost documentation.

(d) The OSC's efforts shall be coordinated with other appropriate federal, state, local, and private response agencies. OSCs may designate capable persons from federal, state, or local agencies to act as their on-scene representatives. State and local governments, however, are not authorized to take actions under subpart D of the NCP that involve expenditures of the OSLTF unless an appropriate contract or cooperative agreement has been established.

(e) The OSC should consult regularly with the RRT and NSFCC, as appropriate, in carrying out the NCP and keep the RRT and NSFCC, as appropriate, informed of activities under the NCP.

(f) The OSC should evaluate incoming information and immediately advise FEMA of potential major disaster situations.

(g) The OSC is responsible for addressing worker health and safety concerns at a response scene.

(h) In those instances where a possible public health emergency exists, the OSC should notify the HHS representative to the RRT. Throughout response actions, the OSC may call upon the OSHA and HHS representative for assistance on worker health and safety issues.

(i) All federal agencies should plan for emergencies and develop procedures for dealing with oil discharges and releases of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants from vessels and facilities under their jurisdiction. All federal agencies, therefore, are responsible for designating the office that coordinates response to such incidents in accordance with the NCP and applicable federal regulations and guidelines.

(j)(1) The OSC shall ensure that the natural resource trustees are promptly notified of discharges.

(2) The OSC shall coordinate all response activities with the affected natural resource trustees and shall consult with the affected trustees on the appropriate removal action to be taken.

(3) Where the OSC becomes aware that a discharge may affect any endangered or threatened species, or their habitat, the OSC shall consult with DOI, DOC/NOAA, and, if appropriate, the cognizant federal land managing agency.

(k) The OSC shall submit pollution reports (POLREPs) to the RRT and other appropriate agencies as significant developments occur during response actions, through communications networks or procedures agreed to by the RRT and covered in the RCP.

(l) The OSC should ensure that all appropriate public and private interests are kept informed and that their concerns are considered throughout a response, to the extent practicable.
