
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix E to Part 300 - Oil Spill Response
###### 6.2.4 Foreign trustees.

Pursuant to section 1006 of the OPA, foreign trustees shall act on behalf of the head of a foreign government as trustees for natural resources belonging to, managed by, controlled by, or appertaining to such foreign government.

(a) Federal agencies listed in this appendix have duties established by statute, executive order, or Presidential directive which may apply to federal response actions following, or in prevention of, the discharge of oil. Some of these agencies also have duties relating to the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, or acquisition of equivalent natural resources injured or lost as a result of such discharge. The NRT, RRT, and Area Committee organizational structure, and the NCP, RCPs, and ACPs provide for agencies to coordinate with each other in carrying out these duties.

(b) Federal agencies may be called upon by an OSC during response planning and implementation to provide assistance in their respective areas of expertise, consistent with the agencies' capabilities and authorities.

(c) In addition to their general responsibilities, federal agencies should:

(1) Make necessary information available to the Secretary of the NRT, RRTs, Area Committees, and OSCs;

(2) Provide representatives to the NRT and RRTs and otherwise assist RRTs and OSCs, as necessary, in formulating RCPs and ACPs; and

(3) Inform the NRT, RRTs, and Area Committees consistent with national security considerations, of changes in the availability of resources that would affect the operations implemented under the NCP.

(d) All federal agencies must report discharges of oil, as required in 40 CFR part 110, from vessels or facilities under their jurisdiction or control to the NRC.
