
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix E to Part 300 - Oil Spill Response
###### 6.4.5 Department of the Interior.

The DOI may be contacted through Regional Environmental Officers, who are the designated members of RRTs. Department land managers have jurisdiction over the national park system, national wildlife refuges and fish hatcheries, the public lands, and certain water projects in western states. In addition, bureaus and offices have relevant expertise as follows:

(a) United States Fish and Wildlife Service and other Bureaus: Anadromous and certain other fishes and wildlife, including endangered and threatened species, migratory birds, and certain marine mammals; waters and wetlands; and effects on natural resources.

(b) The National Biological Survey performs research in support of biological resource management; inventories, monitors, and reports on the status and trends in the Nation's biotic resources; and transfers the information gained in research and monitoring to resource managers and others concerned with the care, use, and conservation of the Nation's natural resources. The National Biological Survey has laboratory/research facilities.

(c) Geological Survey: Geology, hydrology (ground water and surface water), and natural hazards.

(d) Bureau of Land Management: Minerals, soils, vegetation, wildlife, habitat, archaeology, and wilderness.

(e) Minerals Management Service: Oversight of offshore oil and gas exploration and production facilities and associated pipeline facilities under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act and the CWA; oil spill response technology research; and establishing oil discharge contingency planning requirements for offshore facilities.

(f) Bureau of Mines: Analysis and identification of inorganic hazardous substances and technical expertise in metals and metallurgy relevant to site cleanup.

(g) Office of Surface Mining: Coal mine wastes and land reclamation.

(h) National Park Service: General biological, natural, and cultural resource managers to evaluate, measure, monitor, and contain threats to park system lands and resources; archaeological and historical expertise in protection, preservation, evaluation, impact mitigation, and restoration of cultural resources; emergency personnel.

(i) Bureau of Reclamation: Operation and maintenance of water projects in the West; engineering and hydrology; and reservoirs.

(j) Bureau of Indian Affairs: Coordination of activities affecting Indian lands; assistance in identifying Indian tribal government officials.

(k) Office of Territorial Affairs: Assistance in implementing the NCP in American Somoa, Guam, the Pacific Island Governments, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands.
