
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 300 - NATIONAL OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES POLLUTION CONTINGENCY PLAN
##### Appendix E to Part 300 - Oil Spill Response
###### 6.4.12 Department of Transportation.

DOT provides response expertise pertaining to transportation of oil by all modes of transportation. DOT, through RSPA, establishes oil discharge contingency planning requirements for pipelines, transport by rail and containers or bulk transport of oil.

(a) Each state Governor is requested to designate one state office/representative to represent the state on the appropriate RRT. The state's office/representative may participate fully in all activities of the appropriate RRT. Each state Governor is also requested to designate a lead state agency that shall direct state-lead response operations. This agency is responsible for designating the OSC for state-lead response actions, and coordinating/communicating with any other state agencies, as appropriate. Local governments are invited to participate in activities on the appropriate RRT as may be provided by state law or arranged by the state's representative. Indian tribes wishing to participate should assign one person or office to represent the tribal government on the appropriate RRT.

(b) Appropriate state and local officials (including Indian tribes) shall participate as part of the response structure as provided in the ACP.

(c) In addition to meeting the requirements for local emergency plans under SARA section 303, state and local government agencies are encouraged to include contingency planning for responses, consistent with the NCP, RCP, and ACP in all emergency and disaster planning.

(d) For facilities not addressed under the CWA for oil discharges, states are encouraged to undertake response actions themselves or to use their authorities to compel potentially responsible parties to undertake response actions.

(e) Because state and local public safety organizations would normally be the first government representatives at the scene of a discharge or release, they are expected to initiate public safety measures that are necessary to protect the public health and welfare and that are consistent with containment and cleanup requirements in the NCP, and are responsible for directing evacuations pursuant to existing state or local procedures.
