
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 302 - DESIGNATION, REPORTABLE QUANTITIES, AND NOTIFICATION
##### ยง 302.8 Continuous releases.
###### Initial written notification.

(e)Initial written notification of a continuous release shall be made to the appropriate EPA HQ office. (Note: In addition to the requirements of this part, releases of CERCLA hazardous substances are also subject to the provisions of SARA Title III, also known as the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), section 304, and EPA's implementing regulations codified at 40 CFR part 355, which require initial telephone and written notifications of continuous releases to be submitted to the appropriate State emergency response commission and local emergency planning committee.)

(1) Initial written notification to the appropriate EPA HQ office shall occur within 30 days of the initial telephone notification to the National Response Center, and shall include, for each release for which reduced reporting as a continuous release is claimed, the following information:

(i) The name of the facility or vessel; the location, including the latitude and longitude; the case number assigned by the National Response Center or the Environmental Protection Agency; the Dun and Bradstreet number of the facility, if available; the port of registration of the vessel; the name and telephone number of the person in charge of the facility or vessel.

(ii) The population density within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel, described in terms of the following ranges: 0-50 persons, 51-100 persons, 101-500 persons, 501-1,000 persons, more than 1,000 persons.

(iii) The identity and location of sensitive populations and ecosystems within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel (e.g., elementary schools, hospitals, retirement communities, or wetlands).

(iv) For each hazardous substance release claimed to qualify for reporting under CERCLA section 103(f)(2), the following information must be supplied:

(A) The name/identity of the hazardous substance; the Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number for the substance (if available); and if the substance being released is a mixture, the components of the mixture and their approximate concentrations and quantities, by weight.

(B) The upper and lower bounds of the normal range of the release (in pounds or kilograms) over the previous year.

(C) The source(s) of the release (e.g., valves, pump seals, storage tank vents, stacks). If the release is from a stack, the stack height (in feet or meters).

(D) The frequency of the release and the fraction of the release from each release source and the specific period over which it occurs.

(E) A brief statement describing the basis for stating that the release is continuous and stable in quantity and rate.

(F) An estimate of the total annual amount that was released in the previous year (in pounds or kilograms).

(G) The environmental medium(a) affected by the release:
