
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 302 - DESIGNATION, REPORTABLE QUANTITIES, AND NOTIFICATION
##### ยง 302.8 Continuous releases.
###### Follow-up notification.

(f)Within 30 days of the first anniversary date of the initial written notification, the person in charge of the facility or vessel shall evaluate each hazardous substance release reported to verify and update the information submitted in the initial written notification. The follow-up written notification shall be submitted to the appropriate EPA HQ office. The follow-up notification shall include the following information:

(1) The name of the facility or vessel; the location, including the latitude and longitude; the case number assigned by the National Response Center or the Environmental Protection Agency; the Dun and Bradstreet number of the facility, if available; the port of registration of the vessel; the name and telephone number of the person in charge of the facility or vessel.

(2) The population density within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel, described in terms of the following ranges: 0-50 persons, 51-100 persons, 101-500 persons, 501-1,000 persons, more than 1,000 persons.

(3) The identity and location of sensitive populations and ecosystems within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel (e.g., elementary schools, hospitals, retirement communities, or wetlands).

(4) For each hazardous substance release claimed to qualify for reporting under CERCLA section 103(f)(2), the following information shall be supplied:

(i) The name/identity of the hazardous substance; the Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number for the substance (if available); and if the substance being released is a mixture, the components of the mixture and their approximate concentrations and quantities, by weight.

(ii) The upper and lower bounds of the normal range of the release (in pounds or kilograms) over the previous year.

(iii) The source(s) of the release (e.g., valves, pump seals, storage tank vents, stacks). If the release is from a stack, the stack height (in feet or meters).

(iv) The frequency of the release and the fraction of the release from each release source and the specific period over which it occurs.

(v) A brief statement describing the basis for stating that the release is continuous and stable in quantity and rate.

(vi) An estimate of the total annual amount that was released in the previous year (in pounds or kilograms).

(vii) The environmental medium(a) affected by the release:

(A) If surface water, the name of the surface water body;

(B) If a stream, the stream order or average flowrate (in cubic feet/second) and designated use;

(C) If a lake, the surface area (in acres) and average depth (in feet or meters);

(D) If on or under ground, the location of public water supply wells within two miles.

(viii) A signed statement that the hazardous substance release(s) is(are) continuous and stable in quantity and rate under the definitions in paragraph (b) of this section and that all reported information is accurate and current to the best knowledge of the person in charge.
