
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 302 - DESIGNATION, REPORTABLE QUANTITIES, AND NOTIFICATION
##### ยง 302.8 Continuous releases.
###### Use of the SARA Title III (EPCRA) section 313 form.

(j)In lieu of an initial written report or a follow-up report, owners or operators of facilities subject to the requirements of SARA Title III (EPCRA) section 313 may submit to the appropriate EPA HQ office, a copy of the Toxic Release Inventory form submitted under SARA Title III (EPCRA) section 313 the previous July 1, provided that the following information is added:

(1) The population density within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel, described in terms of the following ranges: 0-50 persons, 51-100 persons, 101-500 persons, 501-1,000 persons, more than 1,000 persons.

(2) The identity and location of sensitive populations and ecosystems within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel (e.g., elementary schools, hospitals, retirement communities, or wetlands).

(3) For each hazardous substance release claimed to qualify for reporting under CERCLA section 103(f)(2), the following information must be supplied:

(i) The upper and lower bounds of the normal range of the release (in pounds or kilograms) over the previous year.

(ii) The frequency of the release and the fraction of the release from each release source and the specific period over which it occurs.

(iii) A brief statement describing the basis for stating that the release is continuous and stable in quantity and rate.

(iv) A signed statement that the hazardous substance release(s) is(are) continuous and stable in quantity and rate under the definitions in paragraph (b) of this section and that all reported information is accurate and current to the best knowledge of the person in charge.
