
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 304 - ARBITRATION PROCEDURES FOR SMALL SUPERFUND COST RECOVERY CLAIMS
##### Subpart B - Jurisdiction of Arbitrator, Referral of Claims, and Appointment of Arbitrator
###### § 304.21 Referral of claims.

(a) If EPA believes that a claim is an appropriate candidate for arbitration, EPA will notify all identified PRPs for the facility concerned and provide such PRPs with an opportunity to discuss referral of one or more issues arising in the claim for resolution pursuant to the procedures established by this part. Alternatively, one or more PRPs at a facility may propose to EPA use of arbitration, after receipt of a demand by EPA for payment of a claim, but prior to commencement of civil litigation of the claim. Where practicable, before an agreement to refer a claim for arbitration is made final under this alternative, either the PRPs or EPA shall notify the other PRPs at the facility of the potential use of arbitration.

(b)(1) The Administrator and one or more PRPs associated with a facility may submit to the Association a joint request for arbitration of one or more issues arising in an EPA claim concerning the facility. The joint request shall be signed by all of the parties and shall include:

(i) A brief description of the facility, the EPA response action taken at the facility, the EPA claim, and the parties;

(ii) A statement of the issues arising in the claim that are being submitted by the parties for resolution by arbitration;

(iii) A statement that the parties consent to resolution of the issues jointly submitted pursuant to the procedures established by this part by an Arbitrator appointed pursuant to § 304.22 of this part;

(iv) A statement that the parties agree to be bound by the final decision on all issues jointly submitted by the parties for resolution and to pay any award made in the final decision, subject to the right to challenge the final decision solely on the grounds and in the manner prescribed by § 304.40(c) of this part;

(v) A statement that the parties agree that the award made in the final decision may be enforced pursuant to § 304.40(c) of this part;

(vi) A statement that the parties agree that the final decision shall be binding only with respect to the response costs at issue in the claim submitted for arbitration;

(vii) A statement that the parties agree that the statute of limitations governing the EPA claim submitted shall be extended for a time period equal to the number of days from the date the joint request for arbitration is submitted to the Association to the date of resolution of any enforcement action relating to the final decision; and

(viii) A statement that each signatory to the joint request is authorized to enter into the arbitration and to bind legally the party represented by him or her to the terms of the joint request.

(2) The joint request shall also include the name, address and telephone number of each party, and, if a party is represented by an attorney, the attorney's name, address and telephone number. A party changing any of this information must promptly communicate the change in writing to the Association and all other parties. A party who fails to furnish such information or any changes thereto is deemed to have waived his or her right to notice and service under this part until such time as the party furnishes the missing information.

(c) Any party may move to modify the joint request for arbitration to include one or more additional issues arising in the referred claim. To be effective, any such modification must be signed by the Arbitrator and all other parties. The joint request for arbitration may also be modified to add one or more additional parties, if such intervention is permitted by § 304.24(a) of this part. To be effective, any such modification must be signed by the Arbitrator, the intervening party or parties, and all other parties.

(d) The statute of limitations governing the EPA claim submitted for arbitration shall be extended for a time period equal to the number of days from the date the joint request for arbitration is submitted to the Association to the date of resolution of any enforcement action relating to the final decision.

(e) Prior to the selection of the Association, the Administrator and one or more PRPs associated with a facility may agree to submit one or more issues arising in an EPA claim for resolution by arbitration. Any such agreement shall be contained in a joint request for arbitration which meets all requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. In any such arbitration, the arbitrator shall be selected pursuant to § 304.22(e) of this part, and payment of all costs associated with the arbitration shall be made pursuant to § 304.41(e) of this part. Arbitrations agreed upon pursuant to this paragraph shall be governed by the procedures established by this part, except for those procedures which pertain specifically to the duties of the Association. All duties of the Association shall be performed in a manner agreed upon by all of the parties.
