
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 304 - ARBITRATION PROCEDURES FOR SMALL SUPERFUND COST RECOVERY CLAIMS
##### Subpart B - Jurisdiction of Arbitrator, Referral of Claims, and Appointment of Arbitrator
###### ยง 304.22 Appointment of Arbitrator.

(a) The Association shall establish and maintain a National Panel of Environmental Arbitrators.

(b) Within ten days of the filing of the joint request for arbitration, the Association shall identify and submit simultaneously to all parties an indentical list of ten persons chosen from the National Panel of Environmental Arbitrators, whom the Association believes will not be subject to disqualification because of circumstances likely to affect impartiality pursuant to ยง 304.23 of this part. Each party shall have ten days from the date of receipt of the list to identify any persons objected to, to rank the remaining persons in the order of preference, and to return the list to the Association. If a party does not return the list within the time specified, all persons on the list are deemed acceptable to that party. From among the persons whom the parties have indicated as acceptable, and, in accordance with the designated order of mutual preference, if any, the Association shall invite an Arbitrator to serve. If the parties fail to mutually agree upon any of the persons named, or if the invited Arbitrator is unable to serve, or if for any other reason the appointment cannot be made from the submitted lists, the Association shall make the appointment from among the other members of the Panel. In no event shall appointment of the Arbitrator by the Association take longer than thirty days from the filing of the joint request for arbitration.

(c) Within seven days of the appointment of the Arbitrator, the Association shall mail to each of the parties notice of the identity of the Arbitrator and the date of the appointment, together with a copy of these rules. The Arbitrator shall, within five days of his or her appointment, file a signed acceptance of the case with the Association. The Association shall, within seven days of receipt of the Arbitrator's acceptance, mail notice of such acceptance to the parties.

(d) If any appointed Arbitrator should resign, die, withdraw, be disqualified or otherwise be unable to perform the duties of the office, the Association may, on satisfactory proof, declare the office vacant. Vacancies shall be filled in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section, and the matter shall be resumed.
