
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 304 - ARBITRATION PROCEDURES FOR SMALL SUPERFUND COST RECOVERY CLAIMS
##### Subpart C - Hearings Before the Arbitrator
###### ยง 304.31 Pre-hearing conference.
####### see

(c) The pre-hearing conference shall be held within one hundred twenty days after the appointment of the Arbitrator (ยง 304.22 of this part).

(d) The Arbitrator shall mail to each party notice of the pre-hearing conference not later than twenty days in advance of such conference, unless the parties by mutual agreement waive such notice.

(e) Any party may be represented by counsel at the pre-hearing conference. A party who intends to be so represented shall notify the other parties and the Arbitrator of the name, address and telephone number of counsel at least three days prior to the date set for the pre-hearing conference. When an attorney has initiated the arbitration by signing the joint request for arbitration on behalf of a party, or when an attorney has filed a pleading on behalf of a party, such notice is deemed to have been given.

(f) The pre-hearing conference may proceed in the absence of any party who, after due notice, fails to appear.

(g)(1) At the pre-hearing conference, the Arbitrator and the parties shall exchange witness statements, a stipulation of uncontested facts, a statement of disputed issues, and any other documents, including written direct testimony, that will assist in prompt resolution of the dispute and avoid unnecessary proof.

(2) The Arbitrator and the parties shall consider the settlement of all or part of the claim. The Arbitrator may encourage further settlement discussions among the parties. Any settlement reached may be set forth in a proposed decision in accordance with ยง 304.33 of this part. If such a settlement is not set forth in a proposed decision, the settlement shall be treated as an administrative settlement pursuant to section 122(h)(1) of CERCLA, 42 U.S.C. 9622(h)(1), and shall be subject to public comment pursuant to section 122(i) of CERCLA, 42 U.S.C. 9622(i).
