
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 304 - ARBITRATION PROCEDURES FOR SMALL SUPERFUND COST RECOVERY CLAIMS
##### Subpart C - Hearings Before the Arbitrator
###### ยง 304.33 Arbitral decision and public comment.
####### see

(2) The proposed decision shall also assess arbitration fees and expenses (ยง 304.41 of this part) in favor of any party, or combination of parties, and, in the event any administrative fees or expenses are due the Association, in favor of the Association.

(c) If the parties settle their dispute during the course of the proceeding, the Arbitrator may, upon the parties' request, set forth in the terms of the agreed settlement in a proposed decision. Except as provided in ยง 304.20(b) of this part, a proposed decision which embodies an agreed settlement shall be subject to all applicable provisions of this part, including, but not limited to, paragraph (e) of this section and ยง 304.40 of this part.

(d) The parties shall accept as legal delivery of the proposed decision the placing in the United States mail of a true copy of the proposed decision, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to each party's last known address or each party's attorney's last known address, or by personal service.

(e)(1) Pursuant to section 122(i) of CERCLA, 42 U.S.C. 9622(i), notice of the proposed decision shall be published promptly by EPA in theSuch notice shall include the name and location of the facility concerned, the names of the parties to the proceeding, and a brief summary of the proposed decision, and shall provide persons who are not parties to the proceeding a thirty-day period in which to file written comments relating to the proposed decision. Any filed comments shall be made available to the participating PRPs and to the public. The participating PRPs shall have ten days from the close of the public comment period in which to submit to EPA in writing their views on the merits of any comments filed. EPA shall consider any comments filed, and shall, within thirty days after the close of the ten-day period during which the participating PRPs may submit their views on any comments filed, provide written notice to the Arbitrator and the participating PRPs. The written notice shall be made available to the public and shall include:

(i) A summary of any comments filed;

(ii) Responses to any comments filed;

(iii) A discussion of whether any comments filed disclose to EPA facts or considerations which indicate the proposed decision is inappropriate, improper or inadequate; and

(iv) EPA's determination as to whether modification of the proposed decision or withdrawal from the arbitral proceeding is necessary based upon such comments.
