
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 304 - ARBITRATION PROCEDURES FOR SMALL SUPERFUND COST RECOVERY CLAIMS
##### Subpart D - Other Provisions
###### ยง 304.41 Administrative fees, expenses, and Arbitrator's fee.

(a) The Association shall prescribe an Administrative Fee Schedule and a Refund Schedule, which shall be subject to the approval of EPA. The schedule in effect at the time of filing or the time of refund shall be applicable.

(b) Expenses of witnesses shall be borne by the party producing such witnesses. The expense of the stenographic record and all transcripts thereof shall be prorated equally among all parties ordering copies, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, or unless the Arbitrator assesses such expenses or any part thereof against any specified party in the decision. The expense of an interpreter shall be borne by the party requesting the interpreter.

(c) The Association shall establish the per diem fee for the Arbitrator, subject to the approval of EPA, prior to the commencement of any activities by the Arbitrator. Arrangements for compensation of the Arbitrator shall be made by the Association.

(d) The Association shall make appropriate arrangements to pay the Arbitrator's fee and the administrative fee, and shall render an accounting to the parties in accordance with the Arbitrator's award, within thirty days after the date of the final decision.
