
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 305 - COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION, AND LIABILITY ACT (CERCLA) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CLAIMS AGAINST THE SUPERFUND
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 305.5 Filing, service, and form of pleadings and documents.
####### Confidential Business Information.

(d)(1) Any person filing or serving any pleading or document under this part containing information claimed as Confidential Business Information (CBI) shall assert the claim as specified in 40 CFR 2.203(b). The failure to assert a CBI claim in accordance with this section, at the time the pleading or document is filed or served, shall constitute a waiver of any rights to assert any CBI claim with respect to the business information in the pleading or document.

(2) Any pleading or document containing CBI shall be filed in a double envelope. The outside envelope should not mention that CBI is contained. The inside envelope shall specify the envelope contains CBI.

(3) For each original or copy of each pleading or document filed or served which contains CBI, the person shall submit two versions.

(i) One version must be complete. In that version, the person shall mark the specific information claimed as CBI pursuant to this section.

(ii) The CBI must be deleted in the second version, and all information claimed as CBI must be indicated in such version, as well as the nature of the information claimed as CBI, and the fact that another version containing the CBI has been filed pursuant to this section.

(4) The Hearing Clerk shall not accept for filing any CBI pleading or document which does not comply with the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section.

(5) All claims of CBI, and all information entitled to treatment as CBI, shall be governed by the provisions of 40 CFR part 2, subpart B, for CERCLA, as well as any other EPA regulatory provisions affecting the confidentiality of the information.
