
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 305 - COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION, AND LIABILITY ACT (CERCLA) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CLAIMS AGAINST THE SUPERFUND
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 305.5 Filing, service, and form of pleadings and documents.
####### Filing of pleadings and documents.

(a)(1) The original and one copy of the Request for a Hearing shall be served on the Review Officer. Service on the Review Officer shall be made in the manner prescribed by paragraph (b) of this section. The Requestor shall serve his Request for a Hearing on the Review Officer within 30 days of receipt of the Claims Official's decision. The Review Officer shall promptly notify the Claims Official of receipt of a Request for a Hearing and shall provide him a copy of such request. The original of all other pleadings and documents shall be filed with the appropriate official and a copy served on each party.

(2) A certificate of service shall accompany each document filed or served. Except as otherwise provided, a party filing documents with the Hearing Clerk, after filing of the answer, shall serve copies thereof upon all other parties and the Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer shall maintain a duplicate file during the course of the proceeding.

(3) When the Presiding Officer corresponds directly with a party, the original of the correspondence shall be sent to the Hearing Clerk, a copy shall be maintained by the Presiding Officer in the duplicate file, and a copy shall be sent to all parties. A party who corresponds directly with the Presiding Officer shall, in addition to serving all other parties, send a copy of all such correspondence to the Hearing Clerk. A certificate of service shall accompany each document served under this paragraph.
