
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 305 - COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION, AND LIABILITY ACT (CERCLA) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CLAIMS AGAINST THE SUPERFUND
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 305.4 Powers and duties of the Review Officer and the Presiding Officer; disqualification.
####### Disqualification; withdrawal.

(d)(1) Neither the Review Officer nor the Presiding Officer may perform functions provided for in this part regarding any matter in which he: has a financial interest; or has any relationship with a party or with the subject matter that would make it inappropriate for him to act. A party shall, by motion presented within 5 days after receiving notice of the assignment of the Presiding Officer, make any objection to his assignment. Otherwise, any objections to the qualifications of the Presiding Officer are waived, unless such objections arise after the time for presenting objections allowed by this paragraph. In such case, any objection must be made within 5 days of the time within which it arose. Either party may appeal the Presiding Officer's ruling on a motion to disqualify him to the Chief Administrative Law Judge. The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall rule on such motion in a timely fashion. When the Chief Administrative Law Judge is the Presiding Officer, he shall refer any challenge to his qualification to hear the case to another Administrative Law Judge for decision. The Review Officer or the Presiding Officer may at any time withdraw from any proceeding in which he deems himself disqualified or unable to act for any reason.

(2) If the Review Officer or the Presiding Officer is disqualified or withdraws from the proceeding, a qualified individual who has none of the infirmities listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be assigned to replace him. The Administrator shall appoint a new Review Officer. The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall assign a new Presiding Officer from among the available Administrative Law Judges.

(3) The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall have the power to rule on motions for disqualification as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and may, at any stage in the hearing, reassign the case to an Administrative Law Judge other than the one originally assigned in the event of the unavailability of the Administrative Law Judge or where reassignment will result in efficiency in the scheduling of hearings and will not prejudice the parties.
