
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 305 - COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION, AND LIABILITY ACT (CERCLA) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CLAIMS AGAINST THE SUPERFUND
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 305.5 Filing, service, and form of pleadings and documents.
####### Service of documents other than the Request for a Hearing.

(2)(i) All documents other than the Request for a Hearing may be served on the appropriate official personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by first class mail, postage pre-paid. After initiation of the hearing, a party serving any document must also submit a copy of such document to the Hearing Clerk.

(ii) Service upon the Claims Official, the Review Officer, or the Hearing Clerk shall be made by delivering two copies of the document to the appropriate official in the manner prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.

(iii) Service upon a domestic or foreign corporation or upon a partnership or other unincorporated association that is subject to an action under a common name shall be made in the manner prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, directed to an officer, partner, a managing or general agent, or to any other person authorized by appointment or by Federal or State law to receive service of process.

(iv) Service upon a State or local unit of government, or a State or local officer, agency, department, corporation or other instrumentality shall be made by serving a copy of the document in the manner prescribed by the law of the State for the service of process on any such persons, or:

(A) If upon a State or local unit of government, or a State or local department, agency, corporation or other instrumentality, by personal service or certified mail, as prescribed by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, directed to the Chief Executive Officer thereof;

(B) If upon a State or local officer, by personal service or certified mail, as prescribed by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, to such officer.

(v) Service upon an officer of agency of the United States shall be made by delivering a copy of the document to the officer or agency, or in any manner prescribed for service by applicable regulations. If the agency is a corporation, the document shall be served as prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
