
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 305 - COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION, AND LIABILITY ACT (CERCLA) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CLAIMS AGAINST THE SUPERFUND
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 305.5 Filing, service, and form of pleadings and documents.
####### Form of pleadings and documents.

(c)(1) Except as provided herein, or by order of the Presiding Officer, there are no specific requirements as to the form of documents.

(2) The first page of every pleading, letter, or other document shall contain a caption identifying the Requestor, the docket number assigned by the Review Officer, and the official to whom the document is directed. All pleadings greater than ten pages in length, and all legal briefs, shall contain a table of contents and a table of citations with page references.

(3) The original of any pleading, letter or other document (other than exhibits) shall be signed by the party filing or by his counsel or other representative. The signature constitutes a representation by the signer that he has read the pleading, letter, or other document, that to the best of his knowledge, information and belief, the statements made therein are true, and that it is not interposed for delay.

(4) The initial document filed by any party shall contain his name, address and telephone number. Any changes in this information shall be communicated promptly to the appropriate official, and all parties to the proceeding. A party who fails to furnish such information and any changes thereto shall be deemed to have waived his right to notice and service under this part.

(5) The Claims Official, Review Officer, Presiding Officer, or Hearing Clerk may refuse to file any document which does not comply with paragraph (c) of this section. Written notice of such refusal, stating the reasons therefore, shall be promptly given to the party submitting the document. Such party may amend and resubmit any document refused for filing, if such amendment and resubmission is timely. If, for good cause shown, amendment and resubmission is not timely, a party may request an extension of the time in which to submit a document to the appropriate official.
