
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 305 - COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION, AND LIABILITY ACT (CERCLA) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES FOR CLAIMS AGAINST THE SUPERFUND
##### Subpart C - Prehearing Procedures
###### ยง 305.26 Prehearing conference.
####### Other discovery.

(f)(1) Discovery shall include any of the methods described in rule 26(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(2) The parties may conduct any mutually agreed upon discovery without participation or determination of the Presiding Officer except that such voluntary discovery may be subject to such time limitations as the Presiding Officer deems appropriate.

(3) Except as provided by paragraphs (b) and (f)(2) of this section, further discovery, under this section, shall be permitted only pursuant to order of the Presiding Officer. Any party to the proceeding desiring an order of discovery shall make a motion therefore. Such motion shall set forth:

(i) The circumstances warranting the discovery;

(ii) The nature of the information expected to be discovered; and

(iii) The method of discovery sought, including, where relevant, the proposed time and place where the discovery will be conducted.

(4) The Presiding Officer shall issue an order for discovery only upon a showing of good cause and upon a determination:

(i) That such discovery will not in any way unreasonably delay the proceeding;

(ii) That the information to be obtained is not otherwise obtainable; and

(iii) That such information has significant probative value.

(5) The Presiding Officer shall order depositions upon oral questions only upon a finding that:

(i) The information sought cannot be obtained by alternative methods of discovery; or

(ii) There is a substantial reason to believe that relevant and probative evidence may otherwise not be preserved for presentation by a witness at the hearing.

(6) When the information sought to be obtained is within the control of one of the parties, failure to comply with an order issued pursuant to this paragraph may lead to:

(i) The inference that the information to be discovered would be adverse to the party from whom the information was sought; or

(ii) The issuance of a default order under ยง 305.24(a).
