
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 307 - COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION, AND LIABILITY ACT (CERCLA) CLAIMS PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 307.11 Scope and applicability.
####### et seq.

(a) The following may be submitted only through the procedures established by this part: claims for responses to a release or substantial threat of release of a hazardous substance into the environment; claims for responses to a release or substantial threat of release of any pollutants or contaminants into the environment, which may present an imminent and substantial danger to public health or welfare; and claims for response actions undertaken pursuant to settlement agreements in which the Federal Government agrees to reimburse a portion of the cost. Under this part, persons may bring claims for necessary costs incurred in carrying out the National Contingency Plan (NCP) (40 CFR part 300) developed under section 311(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251) and revised pursuant to section 105 of CERCLA. Only response actions that EPA has preauthorized are eligible for reimbursement through the claims process of section 112 of CERCLA. Authority for the payment of claims for response costs is provided by section 111(a)(2) of CERCLA. Authority for the reimbursement of certain costs incurred by parties to a settlement agreement entered pursuant to section 122 of CERCLA is provided by section 122(b) of CERCLA.

(b) This part does not affect the terms and conditions contained in Preauthorization Decision Documents (PDDs) issued prior to the effective date of this part. However, a potential claimant may elect to comply with the provisions of this part, rather than the terms and conditions of a PDD issued prior to the effective date of this part, if he so chooses. Written notice of this election must be provided to EPA by the potential claimant prior to such provision taking effect, but not later than the time of the submittal of any claim to EPA. EPA will provide a written acknowledgement of the potential claimant's election and may revise the PDD as appropriate.
