
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 307 - COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION, AND LIABILITY ACT (CERCLA) CLAIMS PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Filing and Processing Response Claims
###### ยง 307.31 Filing procedures.

(a) A response claim must be submitted on EPA Form 2075-4 and must include:

(1) Documentation showing that the claimed response activities were preauthorized by EPA;

(2) Documentation showing that the response activity was accomplished in a manner consistent with the PDD, noting any deviation from preauthorized activities;

(3) Documentation that a search to identify potentially responsible parties was conducted in accordance with ยง 307.30 and of any contacts with such parties; and

(4) Substantiation that all claimed costs are necessary costs.

(b) Claimants (or their authorized representatives) may amend their claims at any time before final action by EPA. Amendment of claims after final action by EPA will be allowed only at EPA's discretion. Each amendment must be submitted in writing and must be signed by the claimant or authorized representative. The time limitations of ยง 307.32(i) refer to the date by which an amendment is filed.

(c) Claimants may not pursue both an action in court against potentially responsible parties and a claim against the Fund at the same time for the same response costs. EPA will return claims presented under this subpart when the Agency determines that a claimant has initiated an action for recovery of the same response costs, in court, against a party potentially liable under section 107 of CERCLA.
