
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 350 - TRADE SECRECY CLAIMS FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION: AND TRADE SECRET DISCLOSURES TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
##### Subpart A - Trade Secrecy Claims
###### § 350.5 Assertion of claims of trade secrecy.

(a) A claim of trade secrecy may be made only for the specific chemical identity of an extremely hazardous substance under sections 303 (d)(2) and (d)(3), a hazardous chemical under sections 311 and 312, and a toxic chemical under section 313.

(b) Method of asserting claims of trade secrecy for information submitted under sections 303 (d)(2) and (d)(3).

(1) In submitting information to the local emergency planning committee under sections 303 (d)(2) or (d)(3), the submitter may claim as trade secret the specific chemical identity of any chemical subject to reporting under section 303.

(2) To make a claim, the submitter shall submit to EPA the following:

(i) A copy of the information which is being submitted under sections 303 (d)(2) or (d)(3) to the local emergency planning committee, with the chemical identity or identities claimed trade secret deleted, and the generic class or category of the chemical identity or identities inserted in its place. The method of choosing generic class or category is set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) A sanitized and unsanitized substantiation in accordance with § 350.7 for each chemical identity claimed as trade secret.

(3) If the submitter wishes to claim information in the substantiation as trade secret or business confidential, it shall do so in accordance with § 350.7(d).

(4) Section 303 claims shall be sent to the address specified in § 350.16 of this regulation.

(c) Method of asserting claims of trade secrecy for information submitted under section 311.

(1) Submitters may claim as trade secret the specific chemical identity of any chemical subject to reporting under section 311 on the material safety data sheet or chemical list under section 311.

(2) To assert a claim for a chemical identity on a material safety data sheet under section 311, the submitter shall submit to EPA the following:

(i) One copy of the material safety data sheet which is being submitted to the State emergency response commission, the local emergency planning committee and the local fire department, which shall make it available to the public. In place of the specific chemical identity claimed as trade secret, the generic class or category of the chemical claimed as trade secret shall be inserted. The method of choosing generic class or category is set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) A sanitized and unsanitized substantiation in accordance with § 350.7 for every chemical identity claimed as trade secret.

(3) To assert a claim for a chemical identity on a list under section 311, the submitter shall submit to EPA the following:
