
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 350 - TRADE SECRECY CLAIMS FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION: AND TRADE SECRET DISCLOSURES TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
##### Subpart A - Trade Secrecy Claims
###### ยง 350.7 Substantiating claims of trade secrecy.
####### http://www.epa.gov/epcra,http://www.epa.gov/tri/rfi,

(2) An owner, operator, or senior official with management responsibility shall sign the certification stating that those portions of the substantiation claimed as confidential would, if disclosed, reveal the chemical identity being claimed as a trade secret, or would reveal other confidential business or trade secret information. This certification is combined on the substantiation form found on EPA program websites,andwith the certification described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) The submitter shall submit to EPA two copies of the substantiation, one of which shall be the unsanitized version, and the other shall be the sanitized version.

(i) The unsanitized copy shall contain all of the information claimed as trade secret or business confidential, marked as indicated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(ii) The second copy shall be identical to the unsanitized substantiation except that it will be a sanitized version, in which all of the information claimed as trade secret or confidential shall be deleted. If any of the information claimed as trade secret in the substantiation is the chemical identity which is the subject of the substantiation, the submitter shall include the appropriate generic class or category of the chemical claimed as trade secret. This sanitized copy shall be submitted to the State emergency response commission, a designated State agency, the local emergency planning committee and the local fire department, as appropriate, and made publicly available.
