
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 350 - TRADE SECRECY CLAIMS FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION: AND TRADE SECRET DISCLOSURES TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
##### Subpart A - Trade Secrecy Claims
###### ยง 350.7 Substantiating claims of trade secrecy.
####### Supplemental information.

(e)(1) EPA may request supplemental information from the submitter in support of its trade secret claim, pursuant to ยง 350.11(a)(1). EPA may specify the kind of information to be submitted, or the submitter may submit any additional detailed information which further supports the truth of the information previously supplied to EPA in its initial substantiation, under this section.

(2) The submitter may claim as confidential any trade secret or confidential business information contained in the supplemental information. To claim this material as confidential, the submitter shall clearly designate those portions of the supplemental information to be claimed as confidential by marking those portions "Confidential," or "Trade Secret." Information not so marked will be treated as public and may be disclosed without notice to the submitter.

(3) If portions of the supplementary information are claimed confidential, an owner, operator, or senior official with management responsibility of the submitter shall certify that those portions of the supplemental information claimed as confidential would, if disclosed, reveal the chemical identity being claimed as confidential or would reveal other confidential business or trade secret information.

(4) If supplemental information is requested by EPA and the submitter claims portions of it as trade secret or confidential, then the submitter shall submit to EPA two copies of the supplemental information, an unsanitized and a sanitized version.

(i) The unsanitized version shall contain all of the information claimed as trade secret or business confidential, marked as indicated above in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(ii) The second copy shall be identical to the unsanitized substantiation except that it will be a sanitized version, in which all of the information claimed as trade secret or confidential shall be deleted. If any of the information claimed as trade secret in the supplemental information is the chemical identity which is the subject of the substantiation, the submitter shall include the appropriate generic class or category of the chemical claimed as trade secret.
