
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 350 - TRADE SECRECY CLAIMS FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION: AND TRADE SECRET DISCLOSURES TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
##### Subpart A - Trade Secrecy Claims
###### ยง 350.17 Appeals.
####### Appeal of determination of no trade secret.

(c)(1) If a submitter appeals from a determination by EPA under ยง 350.11(b)(2) that the specific chemical identity at issue is not a trade secret, the General Counsel shall make one of the following determinations:

(i) The assertions supporting the claim of trade secrecy are true and the chemical identity is a trade secret; or

(ii) The assertions supporting the claim of trade secrecy are not true and the chemical identity is not a trade secret.

(2) If the General Counsel reverses the decision made by the EPA office handling the claim, the General Counsel shall notify the submitter of its determination on appeal in writing, by certified mail (return receipt requested). The appeal determination shall include the date the appeal was received by the General Counsel, a statement of the decision appealed from, a statement of the decision on appeal and the reasons for such decision. The General Counsel shall send the petitioner the notice required in ยง 350.11(b)(1).

(3) If the General Counsel upholds the decision of the EPA office which made the trade secret determination, the submitter may seek review in U.S. District Court within 30 days of receipt of notice of the General Counsel's decision. The General Counsel shall notify the submitter of the determination on appeal in writing, by certified mail (return receipt requested). The notice shall include the date the appeal was received by the General Counsel, a statement of the decision appealed from, the basis for the appeal determination, that it constitutes final Agency action concerning the chemical identity trade secrecy claim, and that such final Agency action may be subject to review in U.S. District Court within 30 days of receipt of such notice. The General Counsel shall notify the petitioner by regular mail.
