
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 350 - TRADE SECRECY CLAIMS FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION: AND TRADE SECRET DISCLOSURES TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
##### Subpart A - Trade Secrecy Claims
###### ยง 350.13 Sufficiency of assertions.

(a) A substantiation submitted under ยง 350.7 will be determined to be insufficient to support a claim of trade secrecy unless the answers to the questions in the substantiation submitted under ยง 350.7 support all of the following conclusions. This substantiation must include, where applicable, specific facts.

(1) The submitter has not disclosed the information to any other person, other than a member of a local emergency planning committee, an officer or employee of the United States or a State or local government, an employee of such person, or a person who is bound by a confidentiality agreement, and such person has taken reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality of such information and intends to continue to take such measures. To support this conclusion, the facts asserted must show all of the following:

(i) The submitter has taken reasonable measures to prevent unauthorized disclosure of the specific chemical identity and will continue to take such measures.

(ii) The submitter has not disclosed the specific chemical identity to any person who is not bound by an agreement to refrain from disclosing the information.

(iii) The submitter has not previously disclosed the specific chemical identity to a local, State, or Federal government entity without asserting a confidentiality claim.

(2) The information is not required to be disclosed, or otherwise made available, to the public under any other Federal or State law.

(3) Disclosure of the information is likely to cause substantial harm to the competitive position of such person. To support this conclusion, the facts asserted must show all of the following:
