
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 350 - TRADE SECRECY CLAIMS FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION: AND TRADE SECRET DISCLOSURES TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
##### Subpart A - Trade Secrecy Claims
###### § 350.11 Review of claim.
####### Good Cause.

(ii)In lieu of an appeal to the General Counsel, the submitter may send additional material in support of its trade secrecy claim, for good cause shown, within 30 days of receipt of the notice of insufficiency. To do so, the submitter shall notify EPA by letter of its contentions as to good cause, and shall include in that letter the additional supporting material.

(iii) Good cause is limited to one or more of the following reasons:

(A) The submitter was not aware of the facts underlying the additional information at the time the substantiation was submitted, and could not reasonably have known the facts at that time; or

(B) EPA regulations and other EPA guidance did not call for such information at the time the substantiation was submitted; or

(C) The submitter had made a good faith effort to submit a complete substantiation, but failed to do so due to an inadvertent omission or clerical error.

(iv) If EPA determines that the submitter has met the standard for good cause, then EPA shall decide, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, whether the submitter's claim meets the Agency's standards of sufficiency set forth in § 350.13.

(A) If after receipt of additional material for good cause, EPA decides the claim is sufficient, EPA will determine whether the claim presents a valid claim of trade secrecy according to the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.

(B) If after receipt of additional material for good cause, EPA decides the claim is insufficient, EPA will notify the submitter by certified mail (return receipt requested) and the submitter may seek review in U.S. District Court within 30 days of receipt of the notice. The notice required by this paragraph shall include EPA's reasons for its determination, and shall inform the submitter of its right to seek review in U.S. District Court within 30 days of receipt of the notice. The petitioner shall be notified of EPA's decision by regular mail.

(v) If EPA determines that the submitter has not met the standard for good cause, then EPA shall notify the submitter by certified mail (return receipt requested). The submitter may seek review of EPA's decision in U.S. District Court within 30 days of receipt of the notice. The notice required in this paragraph shall include EPA's reasons for its determination, and shall inform the submitter of its right to seek review in U.S. District Court within 30 days of receipt of the notice. The petitioner shall be notified of EPA's decision by regular mail.

(b) Determination of trade secrecy. Once a claim has been determined to be sufficient under paragraph (a) of this section, EPA must decide whether the claim is entitled to trade secrecy.

(1) If EPA determines that the information submitted in support of the trade secrecy claim is true and that the chemical identity is a trade secret, the petitioner shall be notified by certified mail (return receipt requested) of EPA's determination and may bring an action in U.S. District Court within 30 days of receipt of such notice. The notice required in this paragraph shall include the reasons why EPA has determined that the chemical identity is a trade secret and shall inform the petitioner of its right to seek review in U.S. District Court within 30 days of receipt of the notice. The submitter shall be notified of EPA's decision by regular mail.

(2) If EPA decides that the information submitted in support of the trade secrecy claim is not true and that the chemical identity is not a trade secret:

(i) The submitter shall be notified by certified mail (return receipt requested) of EPA's determination and may appeal to the General Counsel within 30 days of receipt of such notice, in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 350.17. The notice required by this paragraph shall include the reasons why EPA has determined that the chemical identity is not a trade secret and shall inform the submitter of its appeal rights to EPA's General Counsel. The notice shall include the address to which an appeal should be sent and the procedure for filing an appeal, as set forth in § 350.17(a) of this subpart. The petitioner shall be notified of EPA's decision by regular mail.

(ii) The General Counsel shall notify the submitter by certified mail (return receipt requested) of its decision on appeal pursuant to the requirements in § 350.17. The notice required by this paragraph shall include the reasons for EPA's determination. If the General Counsel affirms the decision that the chemical identity is not a trade secret, then the submitter shall have 30 days from the date it receives notice of the General Counsel's decision to bring an action in U.S. District Court. If the General Counsel decides that the chemical identity is a trade secret, then EPA shall follow the procedure set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
