
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 350 - TRADE SECRECY CLAIMS FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION: AND TRADE SECRET DISCLOSURES TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
##### Subpart A - Trade Secrecy Claims
###### ยง 350.13 Sufficiency of assertions.
####### Either:

(i)(A) Competitors do not know or the submitter is not aware that competitors know that the chemical whose identity is being claimed trade secret can be used in the fashion that the submitter uses it, and competitors cannot easily duplicate the specific use of this chemical through their own research and development activities; or

(B) Competitors are not aware or the submitter does not know whether competitors are aware that the submitter is using this chemical in this fashion.

(ii) The fact that the submitter manufactures, imports or otherwise uses this chemical in a particular fashion is not contained in any publication or other information source (of which the submitter is aware) available to competitors or the public.

(iii) The non-confidential version of the submission under this title does not contain sufficient information to enable competitors to determine the specific chemical identity withheld therefrom.

(iv) The information referred to in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section, is of value to competitors.

(v) Competitors are likely to use this information to the economic detriment of the submitter and are not precluded from doing so by a United States patent.

(vi) The resulting harm to submitter's competitive position would be substantial.

(4) The chemical identity is not readily discoverable through reverse engineering. To support this conclusion, the facts asserted must show that competitors cannot readily discover the specific chemical identity by analysis of the submitter's products or environmental releases.

(b) The sufficiency of the trade secrecy claim shall be decided entirely upon the information submitted under ยง 350.7, or ยง 350.11(a)(2)(ii).
