
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 350 - TRADE SECRECY CLAIMS FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION: AND TRADE SECRET DISCLOSURES TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
##### Subpart A - Trade Secrecy Claims
###### ยง 350.15 Public petitions requesting disclosure of chemical identity claimed as trade secret.

(a) The public may request the disclosure of chemical identity claimed as trade secret by submitting a written petition to the address specified in ยง 350.16.

(b) The petition shall include:

(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the petitioner;

(2) The name and address of the company claiming the chemical identity as trade secret; and

(3) A copy of the submission in which the submitter claimed chemical identity as trade secret, with a specific indication as to which chemical identity the petitioner seeks disclosed.

(c) EPA shall acknowledge, by letter to the petitioner, the receipt of the petition.

(d) Incomplete petitions. If the information contained in the petition is not sufficient to allow EPA to identify which chemical identity the petitioner is seeking to have released, EPA shall notify the petitioner that the petition cannot be further processed until additional information is furnished. EPA will make every reasonable effort to assist a petitioner in providing sufficient information for EPA to identify the chemical identity the petitioner is seeking to have released.

(e) EPA shall make a determination on a petition requesting disclosure, in accordance with ยง 350.11 and ยง 350.17, within nine months of receipt of such petition.
