
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 350 - TRADE SECRECY CLAIMS FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION: AND TRADE SECRET DISCLOSURES TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
##### Subpart B - Disclosure of Trade Secret Information to Health Professionals
###### ยง 350.40 Disclosure to health professionals.
####### Preventive Measures and Treatment by Local Health Professionals.

(d)(1) An owner or operator of a facility subject to the requirements of sections 311, 312, or 313 shall provide the specific chemical identity, if known, of a hazardous chemical, an extremely hazardous substance, or a toxic chemical to any health professional (such as a physician, toxicologist, epidemiologist, or nurse) if:

(i) The requester is a local government employee or a person under contract with the local government;

(ii) The request is in writing;

(iii) The request describes with reasonable detail one or more of the following health needs for the information:

(A) To assess exposure of persons living in a local community to the hazards of the chemical concerned.

(B) To conduct or assess sampling to determine exposure levels of various population groups.

(C) To conduct periodic medical surveillance of exposed population groups.

(D) To provide medical treatment to exposed individuals or population groups.

(E) To conduct studies to determine the health effects of exposure.

(F) To conduct studies to aid in the identification of chemicals that may reasonably be anticipated to cause an observed health effect.

(iv) The request contains a confidentiality agreement which includes:

(A) A description of the procedures to be used to maintain the confidentiality of the disclosed information; and

(B) A statement by the health professional that he will not use the information for any purpose other than the health needs asserted in the statement of need authorized in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section and will not release the information under any circumstances except as may otherwise be authorized by the terms of such agreement or by the owner or operator of the facility person providing such information.

(v) The request includes a certification signed by the health professional stating that the information contained in the statement of need is true.

(2) Following receipt of a written request, the facility owner or operator to whom such request is made shall promptly provide the requested information to the local health professional.
