
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 355 - EMERGENCY PLANNING AND NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Emergency Release Notification
###### Who Must Comply
####### ยง 355.31 What types of releases are exempt from the emergency release notification requirements of this subpart?

You do not have to provide emergency release notification under this subpart for any of the following six types of releases of EHSs or CERCLA hazardous substances that occur at your facility:

(a) Any release that results in exposure to persons solely within the boundaries of your facility.

(b) Any release that is a federally permitted release as defined in section 101(10) of CERCLA.

(c) Any release of a pesticide product that is exempt from reporting under section 103(e) of CERCLA.

(d) Any release that does not meet the definition of release under section 101(22) of CERCLA and is therefore exempt from CERCLA section 103(a) reporting.

(e) Any radionuclide release that occurs:

(1) Naturally in soil from land holdings such as parks, golf courses, or other large tracts of land.

(2) Naturally from land disturbance activities, including farming, construction, and land disturbance incidental to extraction during mining activities, except that which occurs at uranium, phosphate, tin, zircon, hafnium, vanadium, monazite, and rare earth mines. Land disturbance incidental to extraction includes: Land clearing; overburden removal and stockpiling; excavating, handling, transporting, and storing ores and other raw (not beneficiated or processed) materials; and replacing in mined-out areas coal ash, earthen materials from farming or construction, or overburden or other raw materials generated from the exempted mining activities.

(3) From the dumping and transportation of coal and coal ash (including fly ash, bottom ash, and boiler slags), including the dumping and land spreading operations that occur during coal ash uses.

(4) From piles of coal and coal ash, including fly ash, bottom ash, and boiler slags.

(f) Any release less than 1,000 pounds per 24 hours of nitrogen oxide or nitrogen dioxide to the air which is the result of combustion and combustion related activities.

(g) Air emissions from animal waste (including decomposing animal waste) at a farm.
