
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 370 - HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL REPORTING: COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW
##### Subpart B - Who Must Comply
###### ยง 370.10 Who must comply with the hazardous chemical reporting requirements of this part?

(a) You must comply with the reporting requirements of this part if the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA) Hazard Communication Standard (HCS) require your facility to prepare or have available a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) (or Safety Data Sheet (SDS)) for a hazardous chemical and if either of the following conditions is met:

(1) A hazardous chemical that is an Extremely Hazardous Substance (EHS) is present at your facility at any one time in an amount equal to or greater than 500 pounds (227 kg-approximately 55 gallons) or the Threshold Planning Quantity (TPQ), whichever is lower. EHSs and their TPQs are listed in Appendices A and B of 40 CFR part 355.

(2) A hazardous chemical that is not an EHS is present at your facility at any one time in an amount equal to or greater than the threshold level for that hazardous chemical. Threshold levels for such hazardous chemicals are:

(i) For any hazardous chemical that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section, the threshold level is 10,000 pounds (or 4,540 kg).

(ii) For gasoline at a retail gas station (For purposes of this part, retail gas station means a retail facility engaged in selling gasoline and/or diesel fuel principally to the public, for motor vehicle use on land.), the threshold level is 75,000 gallons (approximately 283,900 liters) (all grades combined). This threshold is only applicable for gasoline that was in tank(s) entirely underground and was in compliance at all times during the preceding calendar year with all applicable Underground Storage Tank (UST) requirements at 40 CFR part 280 or requirements of the state UST program approved by the Agency under 40 CFR part 281.

(iii) For diesel fuel at a retail gas station (For purposes of this part, retail gas station means a retail facility engaged in selling gasoline and/or diesel fuel principally to the public, for motor vehicle use on land.), the threshold level is 100,000 gallons (approximately 378,500 liters) (all grades combined). This threshold is only applicable for diesel fuel that was in tank(s) entirely underground and was in compliance at all times during the preceding calendar year with all applicable Underground Storage Tank (UST) requirements at 40 CFR part 280 or requirements of the state UST program approved by the Agency under 40 CFR part 281.

(b) The threshold level for responding to the following requests is zero.

(1) If your LEPC requests that you submit an MSDS (or SDS) for a hazardous chemical for which you have not submitted an MSDS (or SDS) to your LEPC; or

(2) If your LEPC, SERC, or the fire department with jurisdiction over your facility requests that you submit Tier II information.
