
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 370 - HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL REPORTING: COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW
##### Subpart C - Reporting Requirements
###### How to Comply With Inventory Reporting
####### ยง 370.42 What is Tier II inventory information?
######## Pure Chemical or Mixture:

(5)Indicate which hazard categories (or hazard classes) apply to the chemical or the mixture. The hazard categories (or physical and health hazards) are defined in ยง 370.66.

(6) Provide an estimate (in ranges) of the maximum amount of the hazardous chemical present at your facility on any single day during the preceding calendar year. If you are reporting a mixture, provide an estimate of the total amount of the mixture present at your facility on any single day during the preceding calendar year. If the mixture contains any EHS, provide the total amount of each EHS in that mixture. You must use the codes that correspond to different ranges. The amounts and associated range codes are in ยง 370.43.

(7) Provide an estimate (in ranges) of the average daily amount of the hazardous chemical present at your facility during the preceding calendar year. If you are reporting a mixture, provide an estimate of the average daily amount of the mixture. You must use the codes that correspond to different ranges. The amounts and associated range codes are in ยง 370.43.

(8) Provide the maximum number of days that the hazardous chemical or mixture was present at your facility during the preceding calendar year.

(9) Provide the type of storage for the hazardous chemical or the mixture containing the hazardous chemical at your facility. Examples for types of storage: Above-ground tank, plastic or non-metallic drum, steel drum, cylinder, rail car, etc.

(10) Provide the storage conditions for the hazardous chemical or the mixture containing the hazardous chemical at your facility. Examples for types of storage conditions: Ambient pressure, ambient temperature, less than ambient temperature/pressure, cryogenic conditions, etc.

(11) Provide a brief description of the precise location(s) of the hazardous chemical(s) or the mixture(s) at your facility. You may also attach one of the following with your Tier II inventory form:
