
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 370 - HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL REPORTING: COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW
##### Subpart C - Reporting Requirements
###### How to Comply With Inventory Reporting
####### ยง 370.41 What is Tier I inventory information?

Tier I information provides State and local officials and the public with information on the general types and locations of hazardous chemicals present at your facility during the previous calendar year. The Tier I information is the minimum information that you must provide to be in compliance with the inventory reporting requirements of this part. If you are reporting Tier I information, you must report aggregate information on hazardous chemicals by hazard categories. The hazard categories (physical and health hazards) are defined in ยง 370.66. Tier I inventory form includes the following data elements:

(a) Certification. The owner or operator or the officially designated representative of the owner or operator must certify that all information included in the Tier I submission is true, accurate, and complete as follows: "I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information and that based on my inquiry of those individuals responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete." This certification shall be accompanied by your full name, official title, signature, date signed, and total number of pages in the submission including all attachments. All other pages must also contain your signature or signature stamp, the date you signed the certification, and the total number of pages in the submission.

(b) The calendar year for the reporting period.

(c) An indication whether the information being reported on page one of the form is identical to that submitted last year.

(d) The complete name and address of the location of your facility (include the full street address or state road, city, county, State and zip code), latitude and longitude.

(e) An indication if the location of your facility is manned or unmanned.

(f) An estimate of the maximum number of occupants present at any one time. If the location of your facility is unmanned, check the box marked N/A, not applicable.

(g) The phone number of your facility (optional).

(h) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for your facility.

(i) The Dun & Bradstreet number of your facility.

(j) Facility identification numbers assigned under the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) and Risk Management Program. If your facility has not been assigned an identification number under these programs or if your facility is not subject to reporting under these programs, check the box marked N/A, not applicable.

(k) An indication whether your facility is subject to the emergency planning notification requirement under EPCRA section 302, codified in 40 CFR part 355.

(l) An indication whether your facility is subject to the chemical accident prevention requirements under Section 112(r) of the Clean Air Act, codified in 40 CFR part 68, also known as the Risk Management Program.

(m) The name, mailing address, phone number and email address of the owner or operator of the facility.

(n) The name, mailing address, phone number, Dun & Bradstreet number and email address of the facility's parent company. These are optional data elements.

(o) The name, title, phone number, 24-hour phone number, and email address of the facility emergency coordinator, if applicable.

(p) The name, title, phone number, and email address of the person to contact for the information contained in the Tier I form.

(q) The name, title, phone number and email address of at least one local individual that can act as a referral if emergency responders need assistance in responding to a chemical accident at your facility. You must also provide an emergency phone number which will be available 24 hours a day, every day.

(r) An indication whether the information being reported on page two of the form is identical to that submitted last year.

(s) An estimate (in ranges) of the maximum amount of hazardous chemicals in each hazard category present at your facility at any time during the preceding calendar year. You must use codes that correspond to different ranges. The range codes are provided in ยง 370.43.

(t) An estimate (in ranges) of the average daily amount of hazardous chemicals in each hazard category present at your facility during the preceding calendar year. You must use codes that correspond to different ranges. The range codes are provided in ยง 370.43.

(u) The maximum number of days that any single hazardous chemical within each hazard category was present at your facility during the reporting period.

(v) The general location of hazardous chemicals in each hazard category within your facility. General locations should include the names or identification of buildings, tank fields, lots, sheds or other such areas. You may also attach one or more of the following with your Tier I inventory form:
