
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 372 - TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING: COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW
##### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
###### § 372.22 Covered facilities for toxic chemical release reporting.

A facility is a covered facility for a particular calendar year, and must report under § 372.30, if the facility meets either all of the criteria in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, or all of the criteria in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, for that calendar year.

(a) The facility has 10 or more full-time employees.

(b) The facility is in a Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) (as in effect on January 1, 1987) major group or industry code listed in § 372.23(a), for which the corresponding North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) (as in effect on January 1, 2022, for reporting year 2022 and thereafter) subsector and industry codes are listed in §§ 372.23(b) and 372.23(c) by virtue of the fact that it meets one of the following criteria:

(1) The facility is an establishment with a primary SIC major group or industry code listed in § 372.23(a), or a primary NAICS subsector or industry code listed in § 372.23(b) or § 372.23(c).

(2) The facility is a multi-establishment complex where all establishments have primary SIC major group or industry codes listed in § 372.23(a), or primary NAICS subsector or industry codes listed in § 372.23(b) or § 372.23(c).

(3) The facility is a multi-establishment complex in which one of the following is true:

(i) The sum of the value of services provided and/or products shipped and/or produced from those establishments that have primary SIC major group or industry codes listed in § 372.23(a), or primary NAICS subsector or industry codes listed in § 372.23(b) or § 372.23(c) is greater than 50 percent of the total value of all services provided and/or products shipped from and/or produced by all establishments at the facility.

(ii) One establishment having a primary SIC major group or industry code listed in § 372.23(a), or a primary NAICS subsector or industry code listed in § 372.23(b) or § 372.23(c) contributes more in terms of value of services provided and/or products shipped from and/or produced at the facility than any other establishment within the facility.

(c) The facility manufactured (including imported), processed, or otherwise used a toxic chemical in excess of an applicable threshold quantity of that chemical set forth in § 372.25, § 372.27, § 372.28, or § 372.29.

(d) The Administrator determined that applying the 42 U.S.C. 11023 requirements to the facility was warranted, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 11023(b)(2) and § 372.20(b).
