
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 372 - TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING: COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW
##### Subpart B - Reporting Requirements
###### § 372.38 Exemptions.
####### Uses.

(c)If a toxic chemical is used at a covered facility for a purpose described in this paragraph (c), a person is not required to consider the quantity of the toxic chemical used for such purpose when determining whether an applicable threshold has been met under § 372.25, § 372.27, § 372.28, or § 372.29 or determining the amount of releases to be reported under § 372.30. However, this exemption only applies to the quantity of the toxic chemical used for the purpose described in this paragraph (c). If the toxic chemical is also manufactured (including imported), processed, or otherwise used at the covered facility other than as described in this paragraph (c), in excess of an applicable threshold quantity set forth in § 372.25, § 372.27, or § 372.28, the person is required to report under § 372.30.

(1) Use as a structural component of the facility.

(2) Use of products for routine janitorial or facility grounds maintenance. Examples include use of janitorial cleaning supplies, fertilizers, and pesticides similar in type or concentration to consumer products.

(3) Personal use by employees or other persons at the facility of foods, drugs, cosmetics, or other personal items containing toxic chemicals, including supplies of such products within the facility such as in a facility operated cafeteria, store, or infirmary.

(4) Use of products containing toxic chemicals for the purpose of maintaining motor vehicles operated by the facility.

(5) Use of toxic chemicals present in process water and non-contact cooling water as drawn from the environment or from municipal sources, or toxic chemicals present in air used either as compressed air or as part of combustion.
