
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 372 - TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING: COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW
##### Subpart C - Supplier Notification Requirements
###### ยง 372.45 Notification about toxic chemicals.
####### et seq.

(iii) Any consumer product as the term is defined in the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 1251) packaged for distribution to the general public.

(e) If the person considers the specific identity of a toxic chemical in a mixture or trade name product to be a trade secret under provisions of 29 CFR 1910.1200, the notice shall contain a generic chemical name that is descriptive of that toxic chemical.

(f) If the person considers the specific percent by weight composition of a toxic chemical in the mixture or trade name product to be a trade secret under applicable State law or under the Restatement of Torts section 757, comment b, the notice must contain a statement that the chemical is present at a concentration that does not exceed a specified upper bound concentration value. For example, a mixture contains 12 percent of a toxic chemical. However, the supplier considers the specific concentration of the toxic chemical in the product to be a trade secret. The notice would indicate that the toxic chemical is present in the mixture in a concentration of no more than 15 percent by weight. The upper bound value chosen must be no larger than necessary to adequately protect the trade secret.

(g) A person is not subject to the requirements of this section to the extent the person does not know that the facility or establishment(s) is selling or otherwise distributing a toxic chemical to another person in a mixture or trade name product. However, for purposes of this section, a person has such knowledge if the person receives a notice under this section from a supplier of a mixture or trade name product and the person in turn sells or otherwise distributes that mixture or trade name product to another person.

(h) If two or more persons, who do not have any common corporate or business interest (including common ownership or control), as described in ยง 372.38(f), operate separate establishments within a single facility, each such persons shall treat the establishment(s) it operates as a facility for purposes of this section. The determination under paragraph (a) of this section shall be made for those establishments.
