
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 372 - TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING: COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW
##### Subpart E - Forms and Instructions
###### ยง 372.95 Alternate threshold certification and instructions.
####### Alternate threshold certification statement elements.

(b)The following information must be reported on an alternate threshold certification statement pursuant to ยง 372.27(b):

(1) Reporting year.

(2) An indication of whether the chemical identified is being claimed as trade secret.

(3) Chemical name and CAS number (if applicable) of the chemical, or the category name.

(4) Signature of a senior management official certifying the following: pursuant to 40 CFR 372.27, "I hereby certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief for the toxic chemical listed in this statement, the annual reportable amount, as defined in 40 CFR 372.27(a), did not exceed 500 pounds for this reporting year and that the chemical was manufactured, or processed, or otherwise used in an amount not exceeding 1 million pounds during this reporting year."

(5) Date signed.

(6) Facility name and address.

(7) Mailing address of the facility if different than paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(8) Toxic chemical release inventory facility identification number if known.

(9) Name and telephone number of a technical contact.

(10) The four-digit SIC code(s) for the facility or establishments in the facility until the reporting year ending December 31, 2005, for which reporting forms are due July 1, 2006. Beginning with the reporting year ending December 31, 2006, for which reporting forms are due July 1, 2007, and for each subsequent reporting year, the six-digit NAICS code(s) for the facility or establishments in the facility.

(11) Dun and Bradstreet Number of the facility.

(12) Name of the facility's parent company, including:

(i) Legal name of the facility's highest-level U.S.-based parent company and its Dun and Bradstreet identification number, when applicable.

(ii) Beginning with the reporting year ending December 31, 2023, for which reporting forms are due July 1, 2024, and for each subsequent reporting year, the legal name of the facility's highest-level foreign parent company and its Dun and Bradstreet identification number, when applicable.

(iii) The facility must report using the standardized conventions for the naming of a parent company as provided in the toxic chemical release inventory reporting instructions identified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(13) Parent company's Dun and Bradstreet Number.
