
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 372 - TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING: COMMUNITY RIGHT-TO-KNOW
##### Subpart E - Forms and Instructions
###### ยง 372.85 Toxic chemical release reporting form and instructions.
####### Filing Requirements.

(c)Effective January 21, 2014, facilities that submit TRI reporting forms (without claiming a trade secret), including revisions and withdrawals of TRI reporting forms, to EPA must prepare, certify, and submit their data to EPA electronically, using the TRI online-reporting software provided by EPA.

(1) EPA will no longer accept non-trade-secret TRI reports, revisions, or withdrawals on paper reporting forms, magnetic media, or CD-ROMs. Information and instructions regarding online reporting are available on the TRI Web site.

(2) Facilities must submit electronically any revisions or withdrawals of previously submitted TRI reporting forms. Facilities may submit, revise, or withdraw TRI reporting forms for reporting years 1991 through the present reporting year.

(3) The only exception to this TRI electronic reporting requirement of paragraph (c) relates to TRI submissions that claim a trade secret (including sanitized and unsanitized reporting forms) and revisions and withdrawals of such TRI submissions, which must be submitted to EPA on paper. Facilities may submit, revise, or withdraw these paper trade secret (including sanitized and unsanitized) TRI reporting forms for reporting years 1991 through the present reporting year.
