
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter J - Superfund, Emergency Planning, and Community Right-to-Know Programs
#### PART 374 - PRIOR NOTICE OF CITIZEN SUITS
##### ยง 374.2 Service of notice.
###### Violation of standard, regulation, condition, requirement, or order.

(a)Notice of intent to file suit under subsection 310(a)(1) of the Act shall be served by personal service upon, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the alleged violator of any standard, regulation, condition, requirement, or order which has become effective pursuant to this Act in the following manner:

(1) If the alleged violator is a private individual or corporation, notice shall be served by personal service upon, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the person alleged to be in violation. If the alleged violator is a corporation, a copy of the notice shall also be served by personal service upon or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the registered agent, if any, of that corporation in the State in which the violation is alleged to have occurred. A copy of the notice shall be served by personal service upon or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the United States Attorney General; to the Attorney General of the State in which the violation is alleged to have occurred; and to the head of the Federal agency with delegated responsibility for the CERCLA provision allegedly violated, pursuant to Executive Order 12580, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 193, as amended by Executive Order 12777, 3 CFR, 1991 Comp., p. 351. If the Environmental Protection Agency has responsibility for the CERCLA provision allegedly violated, then a copy of the notice shall be served by personal service upon or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and to the Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the Region in which the violation is alleged to have occurred. A list of addresses that may be useful in providing notice of citizen suits is provided at ยง 374.6. Note that these addresses are subject to change and must be verified prior to use.

(2) If the alleged violator is a State or local agency, notice shall be served by personal service upon or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the head of that agency. A copy of the notice shall be served by personal service upon or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the United States Attorney General; to the Attorney General of the State in which the violation is alleged to have occurred; and to the head of the Federal agency with delegated responsibility, pursuant to Executive Order 12580, for the CERCLA provision allegedly violated. If the Environmental Protection Agency has the delegated responsibility for the CERCLA provision allegedly violated, then a copy of the notice shall be served by personal service upon or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and to the Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the Region in which the violation is alleged to have occurred. A list of addresses that may be useful in providing notice of citizen suits is provided at ยง 374.6. Note that these addresses are subject to change and must be verified prior to use.

(3) If the alleged violator is a Federal agency, notice shall be served by personal service upon or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the head of the agency. A copy of the notice shall be served by personal service upon or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the United States Attorney General; to the Attorney General of the State in which the violation is alleged to have occurred; and to the head of the Federal agency with delegated responsibility, pursuant to Executive Order 12580, for the CERCLA provision allegedly violated. If the Environmental Protection Agency has the delegated responsibility for the CERCLA provision allegedly violated, then a copy of the notice shall be served by personal service upon or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and to the Regional Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the Region in which the violation is alleged to have occurred. A list of addresses that may be useful in providing notice of citizen suits is provided at ยง 374.6. These addresses are subject to change and must be verified prior to use.
