
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 403 - GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS FOR EXISTING AND NEW SOURCES OF POLLUTION
##### ยง 403.6 National pretreatment standards: Categorical standards.
###### Final decision.

(4)(i) When the Water Management Division Director or Director receives a submittal he or she will, after determining that it contains all of the information required by paragraph (2) of this section, consider the submission, any additional evidence that may have been requested, and any other available information relevant to the request. The Water Management Division Director or Director will then make a written determination of the applicable subcategory and state the reasons for the determination.

(ii) Where the request is submitted to the Director, the Director shall forward the determination described in this paragraph to the Water Management Division Director who may make a final determination. The Water Management Division Director may waive receipt of these determinations. If the Water Management Division Director does not modify the Director's decision within 60 days after receipt thereof, or if the Water Management Division Director waives receipt of the determination, the Director's decision is final.

(iii) Where the request is submitted by the Industrial User or POTW to the Water Management Division Director or where the Water Management Division Director elects to modify the Director's decision, the Water Management Division Director's decision will be final.

(iv) The Water Management Division Director or Director, as appropriate, shall send a copy of the determination to the affected Industrial User and the POTW. Where the final determination is made by the Water Management Division Director, he or she shall send a copy of the determination to the Director.
