
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 403 - GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS FOR EXISTING AND NEW SOURCES OF POLLUTION
##### ยง 403.6 National pretreatment standards: Categorical standards.
###### Combined wastestream formula.

(e)Where process effluent is mixed prior to treatment with wastewaters other than those generated by the regulated process, fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived by the Control Authority or by the Industrial User with the written concurrence of the Control Authority. These alternative limits shall be applied to the mixed effluent. When deriving alternative categorical limits, the Control Authority or Industrial User shall calculate both an alternative daily maximum value using the daily maximum value(s) specified in the appropriate categorical Pretreatment Standard(s) and an alternative consecutive sampling day average value using the monthly average value(s) specified in the appropriate categorical Pretreatment Standard(s). The Industrial User shall comply with the alternative daily maximum and monthly average limits fixed by the Control Authority until the Control Authority modifies the limits or approves an Industrial User modification request. Modification is authorized whenever there is a material or significant change in the values used in the calculation to fix alternative limits for the regulated pollutant. An Industrial User must immediately report any such material or significant change to the Control Authority. Where appropriate new alternative categorical limits shall be calculated within 30 days.
