
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 403 - GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS FOR EXISTING AND NEW SOURCES OF POLLUTION
##### ยง 403.7 Removal credits.
###### Establishment of removal credits; demonstration of Consistent Removal,Definition of Consistent Removal.

(b)-(1)"Consistent Removal" shall mean the average of the lowest 50 percent of the removal measured according to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. All sample data obtained for the measured pollutant during the time period prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be reported and used in computing Consistent Removal. If a substance is measurable in the influent but not in the effluent, the effluent level may be assumed to be the limit of measurement, and those data may be used by the POTW at its discretion and subject to approval by the Approval Authority. If the substance is not measurable in the influent, the date may not be used. Where the number of samples with concentrations equal to or above the limit of measurement is between 8 and 12, the average of the lowest 6 removals shall be used. If there are less than 8 samples with concentrations equal to or above the limit of measurement, the Approval Authority may approve alternate means for demonstrating Consistent Removal. The term "measurement" refers to the ability of the analytical method or protocol to quantify as well as identify the presence of the substance in question.
