
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 403 - GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS FOR EXISTING AND NEW SOURCES OF POLLUTION
##### § 403.8 Pretreatment Program Requirements: Development and Implementation by POTW.
###### Local limits.

(4)The POTW shall develop local limits as required in § 403.5(c)(1), or demonstrate that they are not necessary.

(5) The POTW shall develop and implement an enforcement response plan. This plan shall contain detailed procedures indicating how a POTW will investigate and respond to instances of industrial user noncompliance. The plan shall, at a minimum:

(i) Describe how the POTW will investigate instances of noncompliance;

(ii) Describe the types of escalating enforcement responses the POTW will take in response to all anticipated types of industrial user violations and the time periods within which responses will take place;

(iii) Identify (by title) the official(s) responsible for each type of response;

(iv) Adequately reflect the POTW's primary responsibility to enforce all applicable pretreatment requirements and standards, as detailed in 40 CFR 403.8 (f)(1) and (f)(2).

(6) The POTW shall prepare and maintain a list of its Industrial Users meeting the criteria in § 403.3(v)(1). The list shall identify the criteria in § 403.3(v)(1) applicable to each Industrial User and, where applicable, shall also indicate whether the POTW has made a determination pursuant to § 403.3(v)(2) that such Industrial User should not be considered a Significant Industrial User. The initial list shall be submitted to the Approval Authority pursuant to § 403.9 or as a non-substantial modification pursuant to § 403.18(d). Modifications to the list shall be submitted to the Approval Authority pursuant to § 403.12(i)(1).

(g) A POTW that chooses to receive electronic documents must satisfy the requirements of 40 CFR part 3-(Electronic reporting).
