
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 403 - GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS FOR EXISTING AND NEW SOURCES OF POLLUTION
##### § 403.10 Development and submission of NPDES State pretreatment programs.
###### Procedures.

(2)The Director shall have developed procedures to carry out the requirements of sections 307 (b) and (c), and 402(b)(1), 402(b)(2), 402(b)(8), and 402(b)(9) of the Act. At a minimum, these procedures shall enable the Director to:

(i) Identify POTW's required to develop Pretreatment Programs in accordance with § 403.8(a) and notify these POTW's of the need to develop a POTW Pretreatment Program. In the absence of a POTW Pretreatment Program, the State shall have procedures to carry out the activities set forth in § 403.8(f)(2);

(ii) Provide technical and legal assistance to POTW's in developing Pretreatment Programs;

(iii) Develop compliance schedules for inclusion in POTW Permits which set forth the shortest reasonable time schedule for the completion of tasks needed to implement a POTW Pretreatment Program. The final compliance date in these schedules shall be no later than July 1, 1983;

(iv) Sample and analyze:

(A) Influent and effluent of the POTW to identify, independent of information supplied by the POTW, compliance or noncompliance with pollutant removal levels set forth in the POTW permit (see § 403.7); and

(B) The contents of sludge from the POTW and methods of sludge disposal and use to identify, independent of information supplied by the POTW, compliance or noncompliance with requirements applicable to the selected method of sludge management;

(v) Investigate evidence of violations of pretreatment conditions set forth in the POTW Permit by taking samples and acquiring other information as needed. This data acquisition shall be performed with sufficient care as to produce evidence admissible in an enforcement proceeding or in court;

(vi) Review and approve requests for approval of POTW Pretreatment Programs and authority to modify categorical Pretreatment Standards submitted by a POTW to the Director; and

(vii) Consider requests for Fundamentally Different Factors variances submitted by Industrial Users in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in § 403.13.

(viii) Regularly notify all Control Authorities of electronic submission requirements of 40 CFR part 127.
