
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 403 - GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS FOR EXISTING AND NEW SOURCES OF POLLUTION
##### § 403.11 Approval procedures for POTW pretreatment programs and POTW granting of removal credits.
###### Public notice and opportunity for hearing.

(b)Upon receipt of a Submission the Approval Authority shall commence its review. Within 20 work days after making a determination that a Submission meets the requirements of § 403.9(b) and, where removal allowance approval is sought, §§ 403.7(d) and 403.9(d), the Approval Authority shall:

(1) Issue a public notice of request for approval of the Submission;

(i) This public notice shall be circulated in a manner designed to inform interested and potentially interested persons of the Submission. Procedures for the circulation of public notice shall include:

(A) Mailing notices of the request for approval of the Submission to designated 208 planning agencies, Federal and State fish, shellfish and wildfish resource agencies (unless such agencies have asked not to be sent the notices); and to any other person or group who has requested individual notice, including those on appropriate mailing lists; and

(B) Publication of a notice of request for approval of the Submission in a newspaper(s) of general circulation within the jurisdiction(s) served by the POTW that meaningful public notice.

(ii) The public notice shall provide a period of not less than 30 days following the date of the public notice during which time interested persons may submit their written views on the Submission.

(iii) All written comments submitted during the 30 day comment period shall be retained by the Approval Authority and considered in the decision on whether or not to approve the Submission. The period for comment may be extended at the discretion of the Approval Authority; and

(2) Provide an opportunity for the applicant, any affected State, any interested State or Federal agency, person or group of persons to request a public hearing with respect to the Submission.

(i) This request for public hearing shall be filed within the 30 day (or extended) comment period described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and shall indicate the interest of the person filing such request and the reasons why a hearing is warranted.

(ii) The Approval Authority shall hold a hearing if the POTW so requests. In addition, a hearing will be held if there is a significant public interest in issues relating to whether or not the Submission should be approved. Instances of doubt should be resolved in favor of holding the hearing.

(iii) Public notice of a hearing to consider a Submission and sufficient to inform interested parties of the nature of the hearing and the right to participate shall be published in the same newspaper as the notice of the original request for approval of the Submission under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section. In addition, notice of the hearing shall be sent to those persons requesting individual notice.
