
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 403 - GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS FOR EXISTING AND NEW SOURCES OF POLLUTION
##### ยง 403.12 Reporting requirements for POTW's and industrial users.
###### Record-keeping requirements.

(o)(1) Any Industrial User and POTW subject to the reporting requirements established in this section shall maintain records of all information resulting from any monitoring activities required by this section, including documentation associated with Best Management Practices. Such records shall include for all samples:

(i) The date, exact place, method, and time of sampling and the names of the person or persons taking the samples;

(ii) The dates analyses were performed;

(iii) Who performed the analyses;

(iv) The analytical techniques/methods use; and

(v) The results of such analyses.

(2) Any Industrial User or POTW subject to the reporting requirements established in this section (including documentation associated with Best Management Practices) shall be required to retain for a minimum of 3 years any records of monitoring activities and results (whether or not such monitoring activities are required by this section) and shall make such records available for inspection and copying by the Director and the Regional Administrator (and POTW in the case of an Industrial User). This period of retention shall be extended during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding the Industrial User or POTW or when requested by the Director or the Regional Administrator.

(3) Any POTW to which reports are submitted by an Industrial User pursuant to paragraphs (b), (d), (e), and (h) of this section shall retain such reports for a minimum of 3 years and shall make such reports available for inspection and copying by the Director and the Regional Administrator. This period of retention shall be extended during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding the discharge of pollutants by the Industrial User or the operation of the POTW Pretreatment Program or when requested by the Director or the Regional Administrator.

(p)(1) The Industrial User shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and State hazardous waste authorities in writing of any discharge into the POTW of a substance, which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the Industrial User discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the following information to the extent such information is known and readily available to the Industrial User: An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following twelve months. All notifications must take place within 180 days of the effective date of this rule. Industrial users who commence discharging after the effective date of this rule shall provide the notification no later than 180 days after the discharge of the listed or characteristic hazardous waste. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed discharges must be submitted under 40 CFR 403.12 (j). The notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring requirements of 40 CFR 403.12 (b), (d), and (e).

(2) Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (p)(1) of this section during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than fifteen kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time notification.

Subsequent months during which the Industrial User discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.

(3) In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste, the Industrial User must notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and State hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective date of such regulations.

(4) In the case of any notification made under paragraph (p) of this section, the Industrial User shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically practical.
