
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 403 - GENERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS FOR EXISTING AND NEW SOURCES OF POLLUTION
##### ยง 403.13 Variances from categorical pretreatment standards for fundamentally different factors.
###### Public notice.

(j)Upon receipt of a complete request, the Administrator (or his delegate) or the Director will provide notice of receipt, opportunity to review the submission, and opportunity to comment.

(1) The public notice shall be circulated in a manner designed to inform interested and potentially interested persons of the request. Procedures for the circulation of public notice shall include mailing notices to:

(i) The POTW into which the Industrial User requesting the variance discharges;

(ii) Adjoining States whose waters may be affected; and

(iii) Designated 208 planning agencies, Federal and State fish, shellfish and wildlife resource agencies; and to any other person or group who has requested individual notice, including those on appropriate mailing lists.

(2) The public notice shall provide for a period not less than 30 days following the date of the public notice during which time interested persons may review the request and submit their written views on the request.

(3) Following the comment period, the Administrator (or his delegate) or the Director will make a determination on the request taking into consideration any comments received. Notice of this final decision shall be provided to the requester (and the Industrial User for which the variance is requested if different), the POTW into which the Industrial User discharges and all persons who submitted comments on the request.
