
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 413 - ELECTROPLATING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 413.01 Applicability and compliance dates.

(a) This part shall apply to electroplating operations in which metal is electroplated on any basis material and to related metal finishing operations as set forth in the various subparts, whether such operations are conducted in conjunction with electroplating, independently, or as part of some other operation. The compliance deadline for metals and cyanide at integrated facilities shall be June 30, 1984. The compliance date for metals and cyanide at non-integrated facilities shall be April 27, 1984. Compliance with TTO for all facilities shall be July 15, 1986. These part 413 standards shall not apply to a facility which must comply with all the pollutant limitations listed in ยง 433.15 (metal finishing PSES).

(b) Operations similar to electroplating which are specifically excepted from coverage of this part include:

(1) Electrowinning and electrorefining conducted as a part of nonferrous metal smelting and refining (40 CFR part 421);

(2) Metal surface preparation and conversion coating conducted as a part of coil coating (40 CFR part 465);

(3) Metal surface preparation and immersion plating or electroless plating conducted as a part of porcelain enameling (40 CFR part 466); and

(4) Electrodeposition of active electrode materials, electroimpregnation, and electroforming conducted as a part of battery manufacturing (40 CFR part 461).

(c) Metallic platemaking and gravure cylinder preparation conducted within or for printing and publishing facilities, and continuous strip electroplating conducted within iron and steel manufacturing facilities which introduce pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works are exempted from the pretreatment standards for existing sources set forth in this part.
