
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 52.21 Prevention of significant deterioration of air quality.
####### b

() For the modification, each pollutant for which it would result in a significant net emissions increase.

(ii) With respect to any such pollutant for which no National Ambient Air Quality Standard exists, the analysis shall contain such air quality monitoring data as the Administrator determines is necessary to assess ambient air quality for that pollutant in any area that the emissions of that pollutant would affect.

(iii) With respect to any such pollutant (other than nonmethane hydrocarbons) for which such a standard does exist, the analysis shall contain continuous air quality monitoring data gathered for purposes of determining whether emissions of that pollutant would cause or contribute to a violation of the standard or any maximum allowable increase.

(iv) In general, the continuous air quality monitoring data that is required shall have been gathered over a period of at least one year and shall represent at least the year preceding receipt of the application, except that, if the Administrator determines that a complete and adequate analysis can be accomplished with monitoring data gathered over a period shorter than one year (but not to be less than four months), the data that is required shall have been gathered over at least that shorter period.

(v) [Reserved]

(vi) The owner or operator of a proposed stationary source or modification of volatile organic compounds who satisfies all conditions of 40 CFR part 51 Appendix S, section IV may provide post-approval monitoring data for ozone in lieu of providing preconstruction data as required under paragraph (m)(1) of this section.

(vii)-(viii) [Reserved]

(2) Post-construction monitoring. The owner or operator of a major stationary source or major modification shall, after construction of the stationary source or modification, conduct such ambient monitoring as the Administrator determines is necessary to determine the effect emissions from the stationary source or modification may have, or are having, on air quality in any area.

(3) Operations of monitoring stations. The owner or operator of a major stationary source or major modification shall meet the requirements of Appendix B to part 58 of this chapter during the operation of monitoring stations for purposes of satisfying paragraph (m) of this section.
