
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 419 - PETROLEUM REFINING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Topping Subcategory
###### ยง 419.13 Effluent limitations guidelines representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best available technology economically achievable (BAT).
####### Development Document for Effluent Limitations Guidelines, New Source Performance Standards, and Pretreatment Standards for the Petroleum Refining Point Source Category

(i) For each of the regulated pollutant parameters listed below, the effluent limitation for a given refinery is the sum of the products of each effluent limitation factor times the applicable process feedstock rate, calculated as provided in 40 CFR 122.45(b). Applicable production processes are presented in appendix A, by process type. The process identification numbers presented in this appendix A are for the convenience of the reader. They can be cross-referenced in the(EPA 440/1-82/014), Table III-7, pp. 49-54.

(2) See the comprehensive example in subpart D, ยง 419.43(c)(2).

(d) The following allocations constitute the quantity and quality of pollutants or pollutant properties controlled by this paragraph, attributable to ballast, which may be discharged after the application of best available technology economically achievable by a point source subject to the provisions of this subpart. These allocations are in addition to the discharge allowed by paragraph (b) of this section. The allocation allowed for ballast water flow, as kg/cu m (lb/M gal), shall be based on those ballast waters treated at the refinery.

(e) The quantity and quality of pollutants or pollutant properties controlled by this paragraph, attributable to once-through cooling water, are excluded from the discharge allowed by paragraph (b) of this section. Once-through cooling water may be discharged with a total organic carbon concentration not to exceed 5 mg/l.
