
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 52.21 Prevention of significant deterioration of air quality.
####### Setting the 10-year actuals PAL level.

(6)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (aa)(6)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the plan shall provide that the actuals PAL level for a major stationary source or a GHG-only source shall be established as the sum of the baseline actual emissions (as defined in paragraph (b)(48) of this section or, for GHGs, paragraph (aa)(2)(xiii) of this section) of the PAL pollutant for each emissions unit at the source; plus an amount equal to the applicable significant level for the PAL pollutant under paragraph (b)(23) of this section or under the Act, whichever is lower. When establishing the actuals PAL level, for a PAL pollutant, only one consecutive 24-month period must be used to determine the baseline actual emissions for all existing emissions units. However, a different consecutive 24-month period may be used for each different PAL pollutant. Emissions associated with units that were permanently shut down after this 24-month period must be subtracted from the PAL level. The reviewing authority shall specify a reduced PAL level(s) (in tons/yr) in the PAL permit to become effective on the future compliance date(s) of any applicable Federal or State regulatory requirement(s) that the reviewing authority is aware of prior to issuance of the PAL permit. For instance, if the source owner or operator will be required to reduce emissions from industrial boilers in half from baseline emissions of 60 ppm NOto a new rule limit of 30 ppm, then the permit shall contain a future effective PAL level that is equal to the current PAL level reduced by half of the original baseline emissions of such unit(s).

(ii) For newly constructed units (which do not include modifications to existing units) on which actual construction began after the 24-month period, in lieu of adding the baseline actual emissions as specified in paragraph (aa)(6)(i) of this section, the emissions must be added to the PAL level in an amount equal to the potential to emit of the units.

(iii) For COe based GHG PAL, the actuals PAL level shall be established as the sum of the GHGs baseline actual emissions (as defined in paragraph (aa)(2)(xiii) of this section) of GHGs for each emissions unit at the source, plus an amount equal to the amount defined as "significant" on a COe basis for the purposes of paragraph (b)(49)(iii) at the time the PAL permit is being issued. When establishing the actuals PAL level for a COe-based PAL, only one consecutive 24-month period must be used to determine the baseline actual emissions for all existing emissions units. Emissions associated with units that were permanently shut down after this 24-month period must be subtracted from the PAL level. The reviewing authority shall specify a reduced PAL level (in tons per year COe) in the PAL permit to become effective on the future compliance date(s) of any applicable Federal or state regulatory requirement(s) that the reviewing authority is aware of prior to issuance of the PAL permit.
