
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 52.21 Prevention of significant deterioration of air quality.
####### Contents of the PAL permit.

(7)The PAL permit must contain, at a minimum, the information in paragraphs (aa)(7)(i) through (xi) of this section.

(i) The PAL pollutant and the applicable source-wide emission limitation in tons per year or tons per year COe.

(ii) The PAL permit effective date and the expiration date of the PAL (PAL effective period).

(iii) Specification in the PAL permit that if a major stationary source or a GHG-only source owner or operator applies to renew a PAL in accordance with paragraph (aa)(10) of this section before the end of the PAL effective period, then the PAL shall not expire at the end of the PAL effective period. It shall remain in effect until a revised PAL permit is issued by a reviewing authority.

(iv) A requirement that emission calculations for compliance purposes must include emissions from startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions.

(v) A requirement that, once the PAL expires, the major stationary source or GHG-only source is subject to the requirements of paragraph (aa)(9) of this section.

(vi) The calculation procedures that the major stationary source or GHG-only source owner or operator shall use to convert the monitoring system data to monthly emissions and annual emissions based on a 12-month rolling total as required by paragraph (aa)(13)(i) of this section.

(vii) A requirement that the major stationary source or GHG-only source owner or operator monitor all emissions units in accordance with the provisions under paragraph (aa)(12) of this section.

(viii) A requirement to retain the records required under paragraph (aa)(13) of this section on site. Such records may be retained in an electronic format.

(ix) A requirement to submit the reports required under paragraph (aa)(14) of this section by the required deadlines.

(x) Any other requirements that the Administrator deems necessary to implement and enforce the PAL.

(xi) A permit for a GHG PAL issued to a GHG-only source shall also include a statement denoting that GHG emissions at the source will not be subject to regulation under paragraph (b)(49) of this section as long as the source complies with the PAL.
