
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 421 - NONFERROUS METALS MANUFACTURING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart B - Primary Aluminum Smelting Subcategory
###### ยง 421.23 Effluent limitations guidelines representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best available technology economically achievable.

Except as provided in 40 CFR 125.30 through 125.32, any existing point source subject to this subpart shall achieve the following effluent limitations representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best available technology economically achievable:

(a) Subpart B-Anode and Cathode Paste Plant Wet Air Pollution Control

(b) Subpart (B)-Anode Contact Cooling and Briquette Quenching.

(c) Subpart (B)-Anode Bake Plant Wet Air Pollution Control (Closed Top Ring Furnace).

(d) Subpart B-Anode Bake Plant Wet Air Pollution Control (Open Top Ring Furnace With Spray Tower Only).

(e) Subpart B-Anode Bake Plant Wet Air Pollution Control (Open Top Ring Furnace With Wet Electrostatic Precipitator and Spray Tower).

(f) Subpart B-Anode Bake Plant Wet Air Pollution Control (Tunnel Kiln).

(g) Subpart B-Cathode Reprocessing (Operated With Dry Potline Scrubbing and Not Commingled With Other Process or Nonprocess Waters).

(h) Subpart B-Cathode Reprocessing (Operated With Dry Potline Scrubbing and Commingled With Other Process or Nonprocess Waters).

(i) Subpart B-Cathode Reprocessing (Operated With Wet Potline Scrubbing).

(j) Subpart B-Potline Wet Air Pollution Control (Operated Without Cathode Reprocessing).

(k) Subpart B-Potline Wet Air Pollution Control (Operated With Cathode Reprocessing and Not Commingled With Other Process or Nonprocess Waters).

(l) Potline Wet Air Pollution Control Cooperated With Cathode Reprocessing and Commingled With Other Process or Nonprocess Wastewaters).

(m) Subpart B-Potroom Wet Air Pollution Control.

(n) Subpart B-Potline SOEmissions Wet Air Pollution Control.

(o) Subpart B-Degassing Wet Air Pollution Control.

(p) Subpart B-Pot Repair and Pot Soaking.

(q) Subpart B-Direct Chill Casting Contact Cooling.

(r) Subpart B-Continuous Rod Casting Contact Cooling.

(s) Subpart B-Stationary Casting or Shot Casting Contact Cooling.
