
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 421 - NONFERROUS METALS MANUFACTURING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart J - Primary Tungsten Subcategory
###### ยง 421.102 Effluent limitations guidelines representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best practicable control technology currently available.

Except as provided in 40 CFR 125.30 through 125.32, any existing point source subject to this subpart shall achieve the following effluent limitations representing the degree of effluent reduction attainable by the application of the best practicable technology currently available:

(a) Subpart J-Tungstic Acid Rinse.

(b) Subpart J-Acid Leach Wet Air Pollution Control.

(c) Subpart J-Alkali Leach Wash.

(d) Subpart J-Alkali Leach Wash Condensate.

(e) Subpart J-Ion Exchange Raffinate (Commingled With Other Process or Nonprocess Waters).

(f) Subpart J-Ion Exchange Raffinate (Not Commingled With Other Process or Nonprocess Waters).

(g) Subpart J-Calcium Tungstate Precipitate Wash.

(h) Subpart J-Crystallization and Drying of Ammonium Paratungstate.

(i) Subpart J-Ammonium Paratungstate Conversion to Oxides Wet Air Pollution Control.

(j) Subpart J-Ammonium Paratungstate Conversion to Oxides Water of Formation.

(k) Subpart J-Reduction to Tungsten Wet Air Pollution Control.

(l) Subpart J-Reduction to Tungsten Water of Formation.

(m) Subpart J-Tungsten Powder Acid Leach and Wash.

(n) Subpart J-Molybdenum Sulfide Precipitation Wet Air Pollution Control.
