
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 423 - STEAM ELECTRIC POWER GENERATING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### ยง 423.16 Pretreatment standards for existing sources (PSES).
###### FGD wastewater.

(e)(1)Except as provided for in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, for any electric generating unit with a total nameplate generating capacity of more than 50 megawatts, that is not an oil-fired unit, and that the owner has not certified to the permitting authority that it will cease the coal combustion pursuant to ยง 423.19(f), the quantity of pollutants in FGD wastewater shall not exceed the quantity determined by multiplying the flow of FGD wastewater times the concentration listed in table 3 to this paragraph (e)(1). Dischargers must meet the standards in this paragraph by October 13, 2023 except as provided for in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. These standards apply to the discharge of FGD wastewater generated on and after October 13, 2023.

(2)(i) For FGD wastewater discharges from a low utilization electric generating unit, the quantity of pollutants in FGD wastewater shall not exceed the quantity determined by multiplying the flow of FGD wastewater times the concentration listed in the table 4 to paragraph (e)(2)(ii). Dischargers must meet the standards in this paragraph by October 13, 2023.

(ii) If any low utilization electric generating unit fails to timely recertify that the two year average capacity utilization rating of such a electric generating unit is below 10 percent per year as specified in ยง 423.19(e), regardless of the reason, within two years from the date such a recertification was required, the quantity of pollutants in FGD wastewater shall not exceed the quantity determined by multiplying the flow of FGD wastewater times the concentration listed in the Table 3 to paragraph (e)(1).
