
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 423 - STEAM ELECTRIC POWER GENERATING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### § 423.19 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Discharges subject to this part must comply with the following additional reporting requirements.

(b) Signature and certification. Unless otherwise provided below, all certifications and recertifications required in this part must be signed and certified pursuant to 40 CFR 122.22 for direct dischargers or 40 CFR 403.12(l) for indirect dischargers.

(c) Requirements for facilities discharging bottom ash transport water pursuant to § 423.13(k)(2)(i) or 423.16(g)(2)(i).

(1) Initial Certification Statement. For sources seeking to discharge bottom ash transport water pursuant to § 423.13(k)(2)(i) or 423.16(g)(2)(i), an initial certification shall be submitted to the permitting authority by the as soon as possible date determined under § 423.11(t), or the control authority by October 13, 2023 in the case of an indirect discharger.

(2) Signature and certification. The certification statement must be signed and certified by a professional engineer.

(3) Contents. An initial certification shall include the following:

(A) A statement that the professional engineer is a licensed professional engineer.

(B) A statement that the professional engineer is familiar with the regulation requirements.

(C) A statement that the professional engineer is familiar with the facility.

(D) The primary active wetted bottom ash system volume in § 423.11(aa).

(E) Material assumptions, information, and calculations used by the certifying professional engineer to determine the primary active wetted bottom ash system volume.
