
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 425 - LEATHER TANNING AND FINISHING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Appendix B to Part 425 - Modified Monier-Williams Method
###### cautiously

4. Volatilization of HS: Interrupt the Nflow (and vacuum) and introduce 100 ml. of 6N HCl to the sample using the separatory funnel. Immediately resume the gas flow (and vacuum). Apply maximum heat with the heating mantle until the sample begins to boil, then reduce heat and maintain gentle boiling and Nflow for 30 minutes. Terminate the distillation cycle by turning off the heating mantle and maintaining Nflow through the system for 5 to 10 minutes. Then turn off the Nflow (and release vacuum) andvent the system by placing 50 to 100 ml. of distilled water in the separatory funnel and opening the stopcock carefully. When the bubbling stops and the system is equalized to atmospheric pressure, remove the separatory funnel. Extreme care must be exercised in terminating the distillation cycle to avoid flash-over, draw-back, or violent steam release.

5. Analysis: Analyze the contents of Trap No. 2 for sulfate according to either EPA gravimetric test procedure 375.3 or EPA turbidimetric test procedure 375.4 (see 40 CFR 136.3, Table IB, parameter 65 (49 FR 43234, October 26, 1984, and correction notice at 50 FR 690, January 4, 1985)). Use the result to calculate mg./l. of sulfide in wastewater sample.

1. Gravimetric procedure:

2. Turbidimetric procedure:

3. Report results to two significant figures.

1. Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality control program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability and the analysis of replicate and spiked samples as a continuing check on performance. The laboratory is required to maintain performance records to define the quality of data that is generated. Ongoing performance checks must be compared with established performance criteria to determine if the results of analyses are within precision and accuracy limits expected of the method.

2. Before performing any analyses, the analyst must demonstrate the ability to generate acceptable accuracy and precision by performing the following operations.

(a) Perform four replicate analyses of a 20 mg./l. sulfide standard prepared in distilled water (see paragraph 8 under "Reagents" above).

(b)(1) Calculate clean water precision and accuracy in accordance with standard statistical procedures. Clean water acceptance limits are presented in paragraph 2(b)(2) below. These criteria must be met or exceeded before sample analyses can be initiated. A clean water standard must be analyzed with each sample set and the established criteria met for the analyses to be considered under control.

(2) Clean water precision and accuracy acceptance limits: For distilled water samples containing from 5 mg./l. to 50 mg./l. sulfide, the mean concentration from four replicate analyses must be within the range of 72 to 114 percent of the true value.

3. The Method Detection Limit (MDL) should be determined periodically by each participating laboratory in accordance with the procedures specified in "Methods for Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater," EPA-600/4-82-057, July 1982, EMSL, Cincinnati, OH 45268. For the convenience of the user, these procedures are contained in appendix C to part 425.

4. A minimum of one spiked and one duplicate sample must be run for each analytical event, or five percent spikes and five percent duplicates when the number of samples per event exceeds twenty. Spike levels are to be at the MDL (see paragraph 3 above for MDL samples) and at x when x is the concentration found if in excess of the MDL. Spike recovery must be 60 to 120 percent for the analysis of a particular matrix type to be considered valid.

5. Report all results in mg./liter. When duplicate and spiked samples are analyzed, report all data with the sample results.
