
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 425 - LEATHER TANNING AND FINISHING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Appendix B to Part 425 - Modified Monier-Williams Method

Hydrogen sulfide is liberated from an acidified sample by distillation and purging with nitrogen gas (N). Sulfur dioxide interference is removed by scrubbing the nitrogen gas stream in a pH 7 buffer solution. The sulfide gas is collected by passage through an alkaline hydrogen peroxide scrubbing solution in which it is oxidized to sulfate. Sulfate concentration in the scrubbing solution is determined by either EPA gravimetric test procedure 375.3 or EPA turbidimetric test procedure 375.4 (see 40 CFR 136.3, Table IB, parameter 65 (49 FR 43234, October 26, 1984, and correction notice at 50 FR 690, January 4, 1985)).

(See Figure 1.) * Catalogue numbers are given only to provide a more complete description of the equipment necessary, and do not constitute a manufacturer or vendor endorsement.

Heating mantel and control (VWR Cat. No. 33752-464)

1000 ml. distilling flask with three 24/40 joints (VWR Cat. No. 29280-215)

Friedricks condenser with two 24/40 joints (VWR Cat. No. 23161-009)

1. Potassium hydroxide, 6N: Dissolve 340 g. of analytical reagent grade KOH in 1 liter distilled water.

2. Sodium hydroxide, 6N: Dissolve 240 g. of analytical reagent grade NaOH in 1 liter distilled water.

3. Sodium hydroxide, 0.03N: Dilute 5.0 ml. of 6N NaOH to 1 liter with distilled water.

4. Hydrochloric acid, 6N: Dilute 500 ml. of concentrated HCl to 1 liter with distilled water.

5. Potassium phosphate stock buffer, 0.5M: Dissolve 70 g. of monobasic potassium phosphate in approximately 800 ml. distilled water. Adjust pH to 7.0 +/-0.1 with 6N potassium hydroxide and dilute to 1 liter with distilled water. Stock solution in stable for several months at 4 &#xB0;C.

6. Potassium phosphate buffer, 0.05M: Dilute 1 volume of 0.5M potassium phosphate stock buffer with 9 volumes of distilled water. Solution is stable for one month at 4 &#xB0;C.

7. Alkaline 3% hydrogen peroxide: Dilute 1 volume of 30 percent hydrogen peroxide with 9 volumes of 0.03N NaOH. Prepare this solution fresh each day of use.

8. Preparation of stock sulfide standard, 1000 ppm.: Dissolve 2.4 g. reagent grade sodium sulfide in 1 liter of distilled water. Store in a tightly stoppered container. Diluted working standards must be prepared fresh daily and their concentrations determined by EPA test procedure 376.1 immediately prior to use (see 40 CFR 136.3, Table IB, parameter 66 (49 FR 43234, October 26, 1984, and correction notice at 50 FR 690, January 4, 1985)).

Preserve unfiltered wastewater samples immediately after collection by adjustment to pH>9 with 6N NaOH and addition of 2 ml. of 2N zinc acetate per liter. This amount of zinc acetate is adequate to preserve 64 mg./l. sulfide under ideal conditions. Sample containers must be covered tightly and stored at 4 &#xB0;C until analysis. Samples must be analyzed within seven days of collection. If these procedures cannot be achieved, it is the laboratory's responsibility to institute quality control procedures that will provide documentation of sample integrity.

1. Place 50 ml. of 0.05M pH 7.0 potassium phosphate buffer in Trap No. 1.

2. Place 50 ml. of alkaline 3 percent hydrogen peroxide in Trap No. 2.

3. Sample introduction and Nprepurge: Gently mix sample to be analyzed to resuspend settled material, taking care not to aerate the sample. Transfer 400 ml. of sample, or a suitable portion containing not more than 20 mg. sulfide diluted to 400 ml. with distilled water, to the distillation flask. Adjust the Nflow so that the impingers are frothing vigorously, but not overflowing. Vaccum may be applied at the outlet of Trap No. 2 to assist in smooth purging. The Ninlet tube of the distillation flask must be submerged deeply in the sample to ensure efficient agitation. Purge the sample for 30 minutes without applying heat. Test the apparatus for leaks during the prepurge cycle (Snoop or soap water solution).
