
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 52.27 Protection of visibility from sources in attainment areas.
####### Procedural steps in visibility review.

(d)(1) The reviewing authority must provide written notification to all affected Federal land managers of any permit application for any proposed new major stationary source or major modification that may affect visibility in any Federal Class I area. Such notification shall include a copy of all information relevant to the permit application and shall be given within 30 days of receipt and at least 60 days prior to any public hearing on the application for a permit to construct. Such notification shall include the proposed source's anticipated impacts on visibility in any Federal Class I area as provided by the applicant. Notification must also be given to all affected Federal land managers within 30 days of receipt of any advance notification of any such permit application.

(2) The reviewing authority must consider any analysis performed by the Federal land managers, provided within 30 days of the notification required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, that shows that such proposed new major stationary source or major modification may have:

(i) An adverse impact on visibility in any Federal Class I area, or

(ii) An adverse impact on visibility in an integral vista codified in part 81 of this title.

(3) Where the reviewing authority finds that such an analysis does not demonstrate that the effect in paragraphs (d)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section will occur, either an explanation of its decision or notification as to where the explanation can be obtained must be included in the notice of public hearing.

(4) Where the reviewing authority finds that such an analysis does demonstrate that the effect in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section will occur, the permit shall not be issued.

(5) Where the reviewing authority finds that such an analysis does demonstrate that the effect in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section will occur, the reviewing authority may issue a permit if the emissions from the source or modification will be consistent with reasonable progress toward the national goal. In making this decision, the reviewing authority may take into account the costs of compliance, the time necessary for compliance, the energy and nonair quality environmental impacts of compliance, and the useful life of the source.
