
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 13 - CLAIMS COLLECTION STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Collection
###### ยง 13.11 Interest, penalty and administrative costs.
####### i.e.,

(1) Interest begins to accrue on all debts from the date of the initial notice to the debtor. EPA will not recover interest where the debt is paid within 30 days of the date of the notice. EPA will assess an annual rate of interest that is equal to the rate of the current value of funds to the United States Treasury (the Treasury tax and loan account rate) as prescribed and published by the Secretary of the Treasury in theand the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual Bulletins, unless a different rate is necessary to protect the interest of the Government. EPA will notify the debtor of the basis for its finding that a different rate is necessary to protect the interest of the Government.

(2) The Administrator may extend the 30-day period for payment where he determines that such action is in the best interest of the Government. A decision to extend or not to extend the payment period is final and is not subject to further review.

(3) The rate of interest, as initially assessed, remains fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. If a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement, interest may be set at the Treasury rate in effect on the date a new agreement is executed.

(4) Interest will not be assessed on interest charges, administrative costs or later payment penalties. However, where a debtor defaults on a previous repayment agreement and interest, administrative costs and penalties charges have been waived under the defaulted agreement, these charges can be reinstated and added to the debt principal under any new agreement and interest charged on the entire amount of the debt.
