
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 430 - THE PULP, PAPER, AND PAPERBOARD POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 430.03 Best management practices (BMPs) for spent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine management, spill prevention, and control.
####### Monitoring locations.

(ii)For direct dischargers, monitoring must be conducted at the point influent enters the wastewater treatment system. For indirect dischargers monitoring must be conducted at the point of discharge to the POTW. For the purposes of this requirement, the mill may select alternate monitoring point(s) in order to isolate possible sources of spent pulping liquor, soap, or turpentine from other possible sources of organic wastewaters that are tributary to the wastewater treatment facilities (e.g., bleach plants, paper machines and secondary fiber operations).

(3) By the date prescribed in paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section, each existing discharger subject to this section must complete an initial six-month monitoring program using the procedures specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section and must establish initial action levels based on the results of that program. A wastewater treatment influent action level is a statistically determined pollutant loading determined by a statistical analysis of six months of daily measurements. The action levels must consist of a lower action level, which if exceeded will trigger the investigation requirements described in paragraph (i) of this section, and an upper action level, which if exceeded will trigger the corrective action requirements described in paragraph (i) of this section.

(4) By the date prescribed in paragraph (j)(1)(vi) of this section, each existing discharger must complete a second six-month monitoring program using the procedures specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section and must establish revised action levels based on the results of that program. The initial action levels shall remain in effect until replaced by revised action levels.

(5) By the date prescribed in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, each new source subject to this section must complete a six-month monitoring program using the procedures specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section and must develop a lower action level and an upper action level based on the results of that program.

(6) Action levels developed under this paragraph must be revised using six months of monitoring data after any change in mill design, construction, operation, or maintenance that materially affects the potential for leaks or spills of spent pulping liquor, soap, or turpentine from the immediate process areas.
