
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 430 - THE PULP, PAPER, AND PAPERBOARD POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 430.03 Best management practices (BMPs) for spent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine management, spill prevention, and control.
####### Requirement to implement Best Management Practices.

(c)Each mill subject to this section must implement the Best Management Practices (BMPs) specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section. The primary objective of the BMPs is to prevent leaks and spills of spent pulping liquors, soap, and turpentine. The secondary objective is to contain, collect, and recover at the immediate process area, or otherwise control, those leaks, spills, and intentional diversions of spent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine that do occur. BMPs must be developed according to best engineering practices and must be implemented in a manner that takes into account the specific circumstances at each mill. The BMPs are as follows:

(1) The mill must return spilled or diverted spent pulping liquors, soap, and turpentine to the process to the maximum extent practicable as determined by the mill, recover such materials outside the process, or discharge spilled or diverted material at a rate that does not disrupt the receiving wastewater treatment system.

(2) The mill must establish a program to identify and repair leaking equipment items. This program must include:

(i) Regular visual inspections (e.g., once per day) of process areas with equipment items in spent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine service;

(ii) Immediate repairs of leaking equipment items, when possible. Leaking equipment items that cannot be repaired during normal operations must be identified, temporary means for mitigating the leaks must be provided, and the leaking equipment items repaired during the next maintenance outage;

(iii) Identification of conditions under which production will be curtailed or halted to repair leaking equipment items or to prevent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine leaks and spills; and

(iv) A means for tracking repairs over time to identify those equipment items where upgrade or replacement may be warranted based on frequency and severity of leaks, spills, or failures.

(3) The mill must operate continuous, automatic monitoring systems that the mill determines are necessary to detect and control leaks, spills, and intentional diversions of spent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine. These monitoring systems should be integrated with the mill process control system and may include, e.g., high level monitors and alarms on storage tanks; process area conductivity (or pH) monitors and alarms; and process area sewer, process wastewater, and wastewater treatment plant conductivity (or pH) monitors and alarms.

(4) The mill must establish a program of initial and refresher training of operators, maintenance personnel, and other technical and supervisory personnel who have responsibility for operating, maintaining, or supervising the operation and maintenance of equipment items in spent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine service. The refresher training must be conducted at least annually and the training program must be documented.

(5) The mill must prepare a brief report that evaluates each spill of spent pulping liquor, soap, or turpentine that is not contained at the immediate process area and any intentional diversion of spent pulping liquor, soap, or turpentine that is not contained at the immediate process area. The report must describe the equipment items involved, the circumstances leading to the incident, the effectiveness of the corrective actions taken to contain and recover the spill or intentional diversion, and plans to develop changes to equipment and operating and maintenance practices as necessary to prevent recurrence. Discussion of the reports must be included as part of the annual refresher training.

(6) The mill must establish a program to review any planned modifications to the pulping and chemical recovery facilities and any construction activities in the pulping and chemical recovery areas before these activities commence. The purpose of such review is to prevent leaks and spills of spent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine during the planned modifications, and to ensure that construction and supervisory personnel are aware of possible liquor diversions and of the requirement to prevent leaks and spills of spent pulping liquors, soap, and turpentine during construction.
