
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 430 - THE PULP, PAPER, AND PAPERBOARD POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 430.03 Best management practices (BMPs) for spent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine management, spill prevention, and control.
####### Compliance deadlines,Existing direct and indirect dischargers.

(j)-(1)Except as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section for new sources, indirect discharging mills subject to this section must meet the deadlines set forth below. Except as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section for new sources, NPDES permits must require direct discharging mills subject to this section to meet the deadlines set forth below. If a deadline set forth below has passed at the time the NPDES permit containing the BMP requirement is issued, the NPDES permit must require immediate compliance with such BMP requirement(s).

(i) Prepare BMP Plans and certify to the permitting or pretreatment authority that the BMP Plan has been prepared in accordance with this regulation not later than April 15, 1999;

(ii) Implement all BMPs specified in paragraph (c) of this section that do not require the construction of containment or diversion structures or the installation of monitoring and alarm systems not later than April 15, 1999.

(iii) Establish initial action levels required by paragraph (h)(3) of this section not later than April 15, 1999.

(iv) Commence operation of any new or upgraded continuous, automatic monitoring systems that the mill determines to be necessary under paragraph (c)(3) of this section (other than those associated with construction of containment or diversion structures) not later than April 17, 2000.

(v) Complete construction and commence operation of any spent pulping liquor, collection, containment, diversion, or other facilities, including any associated continuous monitoring systems, necessary to fully implement BMPs specified in paragraph (c) of this section not later than April 16, 2001.

(vi) Establish revised action levels required by paragraph (h)(4) of this section as soon as possible after fully implementing the BMPs specified in paragraph (c) of this section, but not later than January 15, 2002.
