
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 430 - THE PULP, PAPER, AND PAPERBOARD POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 430.03 Best management practices (BMPs) for spent pulping liquor, soap, and turpentine management, spill prevention, and control.
####### Monitoring, corrective action, and reporting requirements.

(i)(1) Each mill subject to this section must conduct daily monitoring of the influent to the wastewater treatment system in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section for the purpose of detecting leaks and spills, tracking the effectiveness of the BMPs, and detecting trends in spent pulping liquor losses.

(2) Whenever monitoring results exceed the lower action level for the period of time specified in the BMP Plan, the mill must conduct an investigation to determine the cause of such exceedance. Whenever monitoring results exceed the upper action level for the period of time specified in the BMP Plan, the mill must complete corrective action to bring the wastewater treatment system influent mass loading below the lower action level as soon as practicable.

(3) Although exceedances of the action levels will not constitute violations of an NPDES permit or pretreatment standard, failure to take the actions required by paragraph (i)(2) of this section as soon as practicable will be a permit or pretreatment standard violation.

(4) Each mill subject to this section must report to the NPDES permitting or pretreatment control authority the results of the daily monitoring conducted pursuant to paragraph (i)(1) of this section. Such reports must include a summary of the monitoring results, the number and dates of exceedances of the applicable action levels, and brief descriptions of any corrective actions taken to respond to such exceedances. Submission of such reports shall be at the frequency established by the NPDES permitting or pretreatment control authority, but in no case less than once per year.
