
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 433 - METAL FINISHING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Metal Finishing Subcategory
###### ยง 433.12 Monitoring requirements.

(a) In lieu of requiring monitoring for TTO, the permitting authority (or, in the case of indirect dischargers, the control authority) may allow dischargers to make the following certification statement: "Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing compliance with the permit limitation [or pretreatment standard] for total toxic organics (TTO), I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, no dumping of concentrated toxic organics into the wastewaters has occurred since filing of the last discharge monitoring report. I further certify that this facility is implementing the toxic organic management plan submitted to the permitting [or control] authority." For direct dischargers, this statement is to be included as a "comment" on the Discharge Monitoring Report required by 40 CFR 122.44(i), formerly 40 CFR 122.62(i). For indirect dischargers, the statement is to be included as a comment to the periodic reports required by 40 CFR 403.12(e). If monitoring is necessary to measure compliance with the TTO standard, the industrial discharger need analyse for only those pollutants which would reasonably be expected to be present.

(b) In requesting the certification alternative, a discharger shall submit a solvent management plan that specifies to the satisfaction of the permitting authority (or, in the case of indirect dischargers, the control authority) the toxic organic compounds used; the method of disposal used instead of dumping, such as reclamation, contract hauling, or incineration; and procedures for ensuring that toxic organics do not routinely spill or leak into the wastewater. For direct dischargers, the permitting authority shall incorporate the plan as a provision of the permit.

(c) Self-monitoring for cyanide must be conducted after cyanide treatment and before dilution with other streams. Alternatively, samples may be taken of the final effluent, if the plant limitations are adjusted based on the dilution ratio of the cyanide waste stream flow to the effluent flow.
