
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 4 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Protocol for the Determination of Degradation of Non-Aqueous Base Fluids in a Marine Closed Bottle Biodegradation Test System: Modified ISO 11734:1995 (EPA Method 1647)

a. This method determines the anaerobic degradation potential of mineral oils, paraffin oils and non-aqueous fluids (NAF) in sediments. These substrates are base fluids for formulating offshore drilling fluids. The test evaluates base fluid biodegradation rates by monitoring gas production due to microbial degradation of the test fluid in natural marine sediment.

b. The test procedure places a mixture of marine/estuarine sediment, test substrate (hydrocarbon or controls) and seawater into clean 120 mL (150 mL actual volume) Wheaton serum bottles. The test is run using four replicate serum bottles containing 2,000 mg carbon/kg dry weight concentration of test substrate in sediment. The use of resazurin dye solution (1 ppm) evaluates the anaerobic (redox) condition of the bottles (dye is blue when oxygen is present, reddish in low oxygen conditions and colorless if oxygen free). After capping the bottles, a nitrogen sparge removes air in the headspace before incubation begins. During the incubation period, the sample should be kept at a constant temperature of 29 +/-1 &#xB0;C. Gas production and composition is measured approximately every two weeks. The samples need to be brought to ambient temperature before making the measurements. Measure gas production using a pressure gauge. Barometric pressure is measured at the time of testing to make necessary volume adjustments.

c. ISO 11734:1995 specifies that total gas is the standard measure of biodegradation. While modifying this test for evaluating biodegradation of NAFs, methane was also monitored and found to be an acceptable method of evaluating biodegradation. Section 7 contains the procedures used to follow biodegradation by methane production. Measurement of either total gas or methane production is permitted. If methane is followed, determine the composition of the gas by using gas chromatography (GC) analysis at each sampling. At the end of the test when gas production stops, or at around 275 days, an analysis of sediment for substrate content is possible. Common methods which have been successfully used for analyzing NAFs from sediments are listed in Section 8.

This environmental test system has three phases, spiked sediment, overlying seawater, and a gas headspace. The sediment/test compound mixture is combined with synthetic sea water and transferred into 120-mL serum bottles. The total volume of sediment/sea water mixture in the bottles is 75 mL. The volume of the sediment layer will be approximately 50 mL, but the exact volume of the sediment will depend on sediment characteristics (wet:dry ratio and density). The amount of synthetic sea water will be calculated to bring the total volume in the bottles to 75 mL. The test systems are maintained at a temperature of 29 +/-1 &#xB0;C during incubation. The test systems are brought to ambient temperatures prior to measuring pressure or gas volume.

a. The concentration of base fluids are at least 2,000 mg carbon test material/kg dry sediment. Carbon concentration is determined by theoretical composition based on the chemical formula or by chemical analysis by ASTM D5291-96. Sediments with positive, intermediate and negative control substances as well as a C-Cinternal olefin type base fluid will be run in conjunction with test materials under the same conditions. The positive control is ethyl oleate (CAS 111-62-6), the intermediate control is 1-hexadecene (CAS 629-73-2), and the negative control is squalane (CAS 111-01-3). Controls must be of analytical grade or the highest grade available. Each test control concentration should be prepared according to the mixing procedure described in Section 3.1.

b. Product names will be used for examples or clarification in the following text. Any use of trade or product names in this publication is for descriptive use only, and does not constitute endorsement by EPA or the authors.

Synthetic seawater at a salinity of 25 +/-1 ppt should be used for the test. The synthetic seawater should be prepared by mixing a commercially available artificial seawater mix, into high purity distilled or de-ionized water. The seawater should be aerated and allowed to age for approximately one month prior to use.

a. The dilution sediment must be from a natural estuarine or marine environment and be free of the compounds of interest. The collection location, date and time will be documented and reported. The sediment is prepared by press-sieving through a 2,000-micron mesh sieve to remove large debris, then press-sieving through a 500-micron sieve to remove indigenous organisms that may confound test results. The water content of the sediment should be less than 60% (w/w) or a wet to dry ratio of 2.5. The sediment should have a minimum organic matter content of 3% (w/w) as determined by ASTM D2974-07a (Method A and D and calculate organic matter as in Section 8.3 of method ASTM D2974-07a).

b. To reduce the osmotic shock to the microorganisms in the sediment the salinity of the sediment's pore water should be between 20-30 ppt. Sediment should be used for testing as soon as possible after field collection. If required, sediment can be stored in the dark at 4 &#xB0;C with 3-6 inches of overlying water in a sealed container for a maximum period of 2 months prior to use.

The test is set up by first mixing the test or control substrates into the sediment inoculum, then mixing in seawater to make a pourable slurry. The slurry is then poured into serum bottles, which are then flushed with nitrogen and sealed.

Because base fluids are strongly hydrophobic and do not readily mix with sediments, care must be taken to ensure base fluids are thoroughly homogenized within the sediment. All concentrations are weight-to-weight comparisons (mg of base fluid to kg of dry control sediment). Sediment and base fluid mixing will be accomplished by using the following method.

3.1.1. Determine the wet to dry weight ratio for the control sediment by weighing approximately 10 sub-samples of approximately 1 g each of the screened and homogenized wet sediment into tared aluminum weigh pans. Dry sediment at 105 &#xB0;C for 18-24 h. Remove the dried sediments and cool in a desiccator. Repeat the drying, cooling, and weighing cycle until a constant weight is achieved (within 4% of previous weight). Re-weigh the samples to determine the dry weight. Calculate the mean wet and dry weights of the 10 sub samples and determine the wet/dry ratio by dividing the mean wet weight by the mean dry weight using Equation 5-1. This is required to determine the weight of wet sediment needed to prepare the test samples.

3.1.2. Determine the density (g/ml) of the wet sediment. This will be used to determine total volume of wet sediment needed for the various test treatments. One method is to tare a 5 ml graduated cylinder and add about 5 ml of homogenized sediment. Carefully record the volume then weigh this volume of sediment. Repeat this a total of three times. To determine the wet sediment density, divide the weight by volume per the following formula:

3.1.3. Determine the amount of base fluid to be spiked into wet sediment in order to obtain the desired initial base fluid concentration of 2,000 mg carbon/kg dry weight. An amount of wet sediment that is the equivalent of 30 g of dry sediment will be added to each bottle. A typical procedure is to prepare enough sediment for 8 serum bottles (3 bottles to be sacrificed at the start of the test, 4 bottles incubated for headspace analysis, and enough extra sediment for 2 extra bottles). Extra sediment is needed because some of the sediment will remain coated onto the mixing bowl and utensils. Experience with this test may indicate that preparing larger volumes of spiked sediment is a useful practice, then the following calculations should be adjusted accordingly.

a. Determine the total weight of dry sediment needed to add 30 g dry sediment to 8 bottles. If more bottles are used then the calculations should be modified accordingly. For example:

b. Determine the weight of base fluid, in terms of carbon, needed to obtain a final base fluid concentration of 2,000 mg carbon/kg dry weight. For example:

c. i. Convert from mg of carbon to mg of base fluid. This calculation will depend on the % fraction of carbon present in the molecular structure of each base fluid. For the control fluids, ethyl oleate is composed of 77.3% carbon, hexadecene is composed of 85.7% carbon, and squalane is composed of 85.3% carbon. The carbon fraction of each base fluid should be supplied by the manufacturer or determined before use. ASTM D5291-96 or equivalent will be used to determine composition of fluid.

ii. To calculate the amount of base fluid to add to the sediment, divide the amount of carbon (480 mg) by the percent fraction of carbon in the fluid.

iii. For example, the amount of ethyl oleate added to 240 g dry weight sediment can be calculated from the following equation:

iv. Therefore, add 621 mg of ethyl oleate to 240 g dry weight sediment for a final concentration of 2,000 mg carbon/kg sediment dry weight.

3.1.4. Mix the calculated amount of base fluid with the appropriate weight of wet sediment.

a. Use the wet:dry ratio to convert from g sediment dry weight to g sediment wet weight, as follows:

b. i. Weigh the appropriate amount of base fluid (calculated in Section 3.1.3.c) into stainless mixing bowls, tare the vessel weight, then add the wet sediment calculated in Equation 5, and mix with a high shear dispersing impeller for 9 minutes.

ii. The sediment is now mixed with synthetic sea water to form a slurry that will be transferred into the bottles.

3.2. Creating Seawater/Sediment Slurry

Given that the total volume of sediment/sea water slurry in each bottle is to be 75 mL, determine the volume of sea water to add to the wet sediment.

3.2.1. If each bottle is to contain 30 g dry sediment, calculate the weight, and then the volume, of wet sediment to be added to each bottle.

3.2.4. Convert the wet sediment weight from Equation 6 into a volume using the sediment density.

3.2.5. Determine the amount of sea water to mix with the wet sediment.

Mix sea water thoroughly with wet sediment to form a sediment/sea water slurry.

3.3. Bottling the Sediment Seawater Slurry

The total volume of sediment/sea water slurry in each bottle is to be 75 mL. Convert the volume (mL) of sediment/sea water slurry into a weight (g) using the density of the sediment and the seawater.

This should provide each bottle with 30 g dry sediment in a total volume of 75 mL.

3.3.4. Putting the sediment:seawater slurry in the serum bottles.

a.The slurry will need to be constantly stirred to keep the sediment suspended.

b. Place a tared serum bottle on a balance and add the appropriate amount of slurry to the bottle using a funnel. Once the required slurry is in the bottle remove the funnel, add 2-3 drops (25 µL) of a 1 gram/L resazurin dye stock solution. Cap the bottle with a butyl rubber stopper (Bellco Glass, Part #2048-11800) and crimp with an aluminum seal (Bellco Glass Part #2048-11020).

c. Using a plastic tube with a (23-gauge, 1-inch long) needle attached to one side and a nitrogen source to the other, puncture the serum cap with the needle. Puncture the serum cap again with a second needle to sparge the bottle's headspace of residual air for two minutes. The nitrogen should be flowing at no more than 100 mL/min to encourage gentle displacement of oxygenated air with nitrogen. Faster nitrogen flow rates would cause mixing and complete oxygen removal would take much longer. Remove the nitrogen needle first to avoid any initial pressure problems. The second (vent) needle should be removed within 30 seconds of removing the nitrogen needle.

d. Triplicate blank test systems are prepared, with similar quantities of sediment and seawater without any base fluid. Incubate in the dark at a constant temperature of 29 +/-1 &#xB0;C.

e. Record the test temperature. The test duration is dependent on base fluid performance, but at a maximum should be no more than 275 days. Stop the test after all base fluids have achieved a plateau of gas production. At termination, base fluid concentrations can be verified in the terminated samples by extraction and GC analysis according to Section 8.

a. Because of the difficulty of homogeneously mixing base fluid with sediment, it is important to demonstrate that the base fluid is evenly mixed within the sediment sea water slurry that was added to each bottle. Of the seven serum bottles set up for each test or control condition, three are randomly selected for concentration verification analyses. These should be immediately placed at 4 &#xB0;C and a sample of sediment from each bottle should be analyzed for base fluid content as soon as possible. The coefficient of variation (CV) for the replicate samples must be less than 20%. The results should show recovery of at least 70% of the spiked base fluid. Use an appropriate analytical procedure described in Section 8 to perform the extractions and analyses. If any set of sediments fail the criteria for concentration verification, then the corrective action for that set of sediments is also outlined in Section 8.

b. The nominal concentrations and the measured concentrations from the three bottles selected for concentration verification should be reported for the initial test concentrations. The coefficient of variation (CV) for the replicate samples must be less than 20%. If base fluid content results are not within the 20% CV limit, the test must be stopped and restarted with adequately mixed sediment.

Biodegradation is measured by total gas as specified in ISO 11734:1995. Methane production can also be tracked and is described in Section 7.
