
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 4 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Protocol for the Determination of Degradation of Non-Aqueous Base Fluids in a Marine Closed Bottle Biodegradation Test System: Modified ISO 11734:1995 (EPA Method 1647)
####### i.e.,

b. An example calculation of the expected methane volume in a culture fed 2,000 mg/kg hexadecene is as follows. The application of Symons and Buswell's equation reveals that hexadecene (CH) will yield 4 moles of COand 12 moles of CH. Assuming 30 g of dry sediment are added to the bottles with 2,334 mg hexadecene/kg dry sediment (equivalent to 2,000 mg carbon/kg dry sediment) the calculation is as follows.

c. By subtracting the average amount of methane in control bottles from the test bottles and then dividing by the expected volume an evaluation of the completion of the process may be conducted.

The Concentration Verification analysis is required at the beginning of the test to ensure homogeneity and confirm that the required amount of fluid was delivered to the sediments at the start of the test.

8.1. Three samples per fluid need to be analyzed and achieve &#x2264;20% Coefficient of Variability and an average of ≥70% to &#x2264;120% of fluid delivered to sediment.

8.2. If a third party performs the analysis, then the laboratory should be capable of delivering the homogeneity data within seven days, in order to identify any samples that do not meet the homogeneity requirement as quickly as possible.

8.3. If one sediment/fluid set, out a multiple set batch of samples, fails these criteria, then that one set of samples must be discarded and a fresh set of spiked sediment prepared, started, and analyzed to ensure homogeneity. The same stock sediment is used to prepare the replacement set(s). The remaining sets do not need to be re-mixed or restarted.

8.4. The re-mixed set(s) will need to be run the additional days as appropriate to ensure that the total number of days is the same for all sets of bottles, even though the specific days are not aligned.

8.5. Re-mixing of bottle sets can be performed multiple times as a result of a failure of the analytical criteria, until the holding time for the stock sediment has expired (60 days). If the problem set(s) has not fallen within the acceptable analytical criteria by then, it must not be part of the batch of bottles run. If the problem batch is one of the controls, and those controls were not successfully prepared when the sediment holding time expired, then the entire test must be restarted.

9.1.1. All equipment/instrumentation will be calibrated in accordance with the test method or the manufacturer's instructions and may be scheduled or triggered.

9.1.2. Where possible, standards used in calibration will be traceable to a nationally recognized standard (e.g., certified standard by NIST).

9.1.3. All calibration activities will be documented and the records retained.

9.1.4. The source, lot, batch number, and expiration date of all reagents used with be documented and retained.

9.2.1. All equipment/instrumentation will be maintained in accordance with the test method or the manufacturer's instructions and may be scheduled or triggered.

9.2.2. All maintenance activities will be documented and the records retained.

9.3.1. All primary (raw) data will be correct, complete, without selective reporting, and will be maintained.

9.3.2. Hand-written data will be recorded in lab notebooks or electronically at the time of observation.

9.3.3. All hand-written records will be legible and amenable to reproduction by electrostatic copiers.

9.3.4. All changes to data or other records will be made by:

a. Using a single line to mark-through the erroneous entry (maintaining original data legibility).

b. Write the revision.
