
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 4 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Protocol for the Determination of Degradation of Non-Aqueous Base Fluids in a Marine Closed Bottle Biodegradation Test System: Modified ISO 11734:1995 (EPA Method 1647)
####### see

c. Initial, date, and provide revision code (attached or laboratory's equivalent).

9.3.5. All data entry, transcriptions, and calculations will be verified by a qualified person.

a. Verification will be documented by initials of verifier and date.

9.3.6. Procedures will be in place to address data management procedures used (at minimum):

a. Significant figures.

b. Rounding practices.

c. Identification of outliers in data series.

d. Required statistics.

9.4.1. All technical procedures, methods, work instructions, standard operating procedures must be documented and approved by laboratory management prior to the implementation.

9.4.2. All primary data will be maintained by the contractor for a minimum of five (5) years.

9.5.1. Only qualified personnel shall perform laboratory activities.

9.5.2. Records of staff training and experience will be available. This will include initial and refresher training (as appropriate).

9.6.1. All testing will done in accordance with the specified test methods.

9.6.2. Receipt, arrival condition, storage conditions, dispersal, and accountability of the test article will be documented and maintained.

9.6.3. Receipt or production, arrival or initial condition, storage conditions, dispersal, and accountability of the test matrix (e.g., sediment or artificial seawater) will be documented and maintained.

9.6.4. Source, receipt, arrival condition, storage conditions, dispersal, and accountability of the test organisms (including inoculum) will be documented and maintained.

9.6.5. Actual concentrations administered at each treatment level will be verified by appropriate methodologies.

9.6.6. Any data originating at a different laboratory will be identified and the laboratory fully referenced in the final report.

9.7.1. Continental Shelf Associates Report 1998. Joint EPA/Industry Screening Survey to Assess the Deposition of Drill Cuttings and Associated Synthetic Based Mud on the Seabed of the Louisiana Continental Shelf, Gulf of Mexico. Analysis by Charlie Henry Report Number IES/RCAT97-36 GC-FID and GC/MS.

9.7.2. EPA Method 3550 for extraction with EPA Method 8015 for GC-FID. EPA Method 3550C, Revision 3. February 2007. Ultrasonic Extraction. EPA Method 8015C, Revision 3. February 2007. Nonhalogenated Organics by Gas Chromatography.

9.7.3. Chandler, J.E., S.P. Rabke, and A.J.J. Leuterman. 1999. Predicting the Potential Impact of Synthetic-Based Muds With the Use of Biodegradation Studies. Society of Petroleum Engineers SPE 52742.

9.7.4. Chandler, J.E., B. Lee, S.P. Rabke, J.M. Geliff, R. Stauffer, and J. Hein. 2000. Modification of a Standardized Anaerobic Biodegradation Test to Discriminate Performance of Various Non-Aqueous Base Fluids. Society of Petroleum Engineers SPE 61203.
