
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 4 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Protocol for the Determination of Degradation of Non-Aqueous Base Fluids in a Marine Closed Bottle Biodegradation Test System: Modified ISO 11734:1995 (EPA Method 1647)
####### i.e.,

b. The molecular weight of carbon is 12 (1 mole of carbon = 12 g). Therefore, the number of moles of carbon in each bottle can be calculated.

5.1.3. Calculate the predicted volume of anaerobic gas.

One mole of gas equals 22.4 L (at standard temperature and pressure), therefore,

a. If the pressure in the serum bottle is too great for the pressure transducer or syringe, some of the excess gas must be wasted. The best method to do this is to vent the excess gas right after measurement. To do this, remove the barrel from a 10-mL syringe and fill itfull with water. This is then inserted into the bottle through the stopper using a small diameter (high gauge) needle. The excess pressure is allowed to vent through the water until the bubbles stop. This allows equalization of the pressure inside the bottle to atmospheric without introducing oxygen. The amount of gas vented (which is equal to the volume determined that day) must be kept track of each time the bottles are vented. A simple way to do this in a spreadsheet format is to have a separate column in which cumulative vented gas is tabulated. Each time the volume of gas in the cultures is analyzed, the total gas produced is equal to the gas in the culture at that time plus the total of the vented gas.

b. To keep track of the methane lost in the venting procedure, multiply the amount of gas vented each time by the corrected % methane determined on that day. The answer gives the volume of methane wasted. This must be added into the cumulative totals similarly to the total gas additions.

At day 275 or when gas production has plateaued, whichever is first, the controls are evaluated to confirm that the test has been performed appropriately. In order for this modification of the closed bottle biodegradation test to be considered acceptable, all the controls must meet the biodegradation levels indicated in Table 1. The intermediate control hexadecene must produce at least 30% of the theoretical gas production. This level may be reexamined after two years and more data has been generated.

a. In order for a fluid to pass the closed bottle test, the biodegradation of the base fluid as indicated by the total amount of total gas (or methane) generated once gas production has plateaued (or at the end of 275 days, which ever is first) must be greater than or equal to the volume of gas (or methane) produced by the reference standard (internal elefin or ester).

b. The method for evaluating the data to determine whether a fluid has passed the biodegradation test must use the equations:

a. The use of total gas production alone may result in an underestimation of the actual metabolism occurring since COis slightly soluble in water. An acceptable alternative method is to monitor methane production and total gas production. This is easily done using GC analysis. A direct injection of headspace gases can be made into a GC using almost any packed or capillary column with an FID detector. Unless volatile fuels or solvents are present in the test material or the inocula, the only component of the headspace gas that can be detected using an FID detector is methane. The percent methane in the headspace gas is determined by comparing the response of the sample injections to the response from injections of known percent methane standards. The percent methane is corrected for water vapor saturation using Eq. 21 and then converted to a volume of dry methane using Eq. 22.

b. The total volume of serum bottles sold as 125 mL bottles (Wheaton) is 154.8 mL.

c. The volumes of methane produced are then compared to the volumes of methane in the controls to determine if a significant inhibition of methane production or a significant increase of methane production has been observed. Effective statistical analyses are important, as variability in the results is common due to the heterogeneity of the inoculum's source. It is also common to observe that the timing of the initiation of culture activity is not equal in all of the cultures. Expect a great variability over the period when the cultures are active, some replicates will start sooner than others, but all of the replicates should eventually reach similar levels of base fluid degradation and methane production.

a. The amount of methane expected can be calculated using the equation of Symons and Buswell (Eq. 23). In the case of complete mineralization, all of the carbon will appear as wither COor CH, thus the total moles of gas produced will be equal to the total moles of carbon in the parent molecule. The use of the Buswell equation allows you to calculate the effects the redox potential will have on the distribution of the products in methanogenic cultures. More reduced electron donors will allow the production of more methane, while more oxidized electron donors will cause a production of more carbon dioxide.
