
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 4 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Protocol for the Determination of Degradation of Non-Aqueous Base Fluids in a Marine Closed Bottle Biodegradation Test System: Modified ISO 11734:1995 (EPA Method 1647)
####### Bottles should be brought to room temperature before readings are taken.

a. The bottles are observed to confirm that the resazurin has not oxidized to pink or blue. Total gas production in the culture bottles should be measured using a pressure transducer (one source is Biotech International). The pressure readings from test and control cultures are evaluated against a calibration curve created by analyzing the pressure created by known additions of gas to bottles established identically to the culture bottles. Bottles used for the standard curve contain 75 mL of water, and are sealed with the same rubber septa and crimp cap seals used for the bottles containing sediment. After the bottles used in the standard curve have been sealed, a syringe needle inserted through the septa is used to equilibrate the pressure inside the bottles to the outside atmosphere. The syringe needle is removed and known volumes of air are injected into the headspace of the bottles. Pressure readings provide a standard curve relating the volume of gas injected into the bottles and headspace pressure. No less than three points may be used to generate the standard curve. A typical standard curve may use 0, 1, 5, 10, 20 and 40 mL of gas added to the standard curve bottles.

b. The room temperature and barometric pressure (to two digits) should be recorded at the time of sampling. One option for the barometer is Fisher Part #02-400 or 02-401. Gas production by the sediment is expressed in terms of the volume (mL) of gas at standard temperature (0 &#xB0;C = 273 &#xB0;K) and pressure (1 atm = 30 inches of Hg) using Eq. 16.

c. An estimate can be made of the total volume of anaerobic gas that will be produced in the bottles. The gas production measured for each base fluid can be expressed as a percent of predicted total anaerobic gas production.

5.1.1. Calculate the total amount of carbon in the form of the base fluid present in each bottle.

a. Each bottle is to contain 30 g dry weight sediment. The base fluid concentration is 2,000 mg carbon/kg dry weight sediment. Therefore:

5.1.2. Theory states that anaerobic microorganisms will convert 1 mole of carbon substrate into 1 mole of total anaerobic gas production.

a. Calculate the number of moles of carbon in each bottle.
