
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 5 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of Crude Oil Contamination in Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluids by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) (EPA Method 1655)
####### see

11.1.4 Spike the 0.5-g supernate with 500 µL of the 0.01g/mL 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene internal standard solution (Section 7.2.3 of this appendix), cap with a Teflon lined crimp cap, and vortex for ca. 10 sec.

11.1.5 The sample is ready for GC/MS analysis.

11.2 Gas Chromatography.

Table 1 of this appendix summarizes the recommended operating conditions for the GC/MS. Retention times for the n-alkanes obtained under these conditions are given in Table 2 of this appendix. Other columns, chromatographic conditions, or detectors may be used if initial precision and accuracy requirements (Section 9.2 of this appendix) are met. The system shall be calibrated according to the procedures outlined in Section 10 of this appendix, and verified every 12 hours according to Section 11.6 of this appendix.

11.2.1 Samples shall be prepared (extracted) in a batch of no more than 20 samples. The batch shall consist of 20 authentic samples, 1 blank (Section 9.3 of this appendix), 1 matrix spike sample (9.4), and 1 duplicate field sample (9.5), and a prepared sample of the corresponding clean NAF used in the drilling process.

11.2.2 An analytical sequence shall be analyzed on the GC/MS where the 3 SPTM standards (Section 7.2.4 of this appendix) containing internal standard are analyzed first, followed by analysis of the four GC/MS crude oil/drilling fluid calibration standards (Section 7.2.5 of this appendix), analysis of the blank, matrix spike sample, the duplicate sample, the clean NAF sample, followed by the authentic samples.

11.2.3 Samples requiring dilution due to excessive signal shall be diluted using methylene chloride.

11.2.4 Inject 1.0 µL of the test sample or standard into the GC, using the conditions in Table 1 of this appendix.

11.2.5 Begin data collection and the temperature program at the time of injection.

11.2.6 Obtain a TIC and EIP fingerprint scans of the sample (Table 3 of this appendix).

11.2.7 If the area of the Cto Cpeaks exceeds the calibration range of the system, dilute a fresh aliquot of the test sample weighing 0.50-g and re-analyze.

11.2.8 Determine the Cto CTIC area, the TCB internal standard area, and the areas for the m/z 91 and 105 EIPs. These shall be used in the calculation of oil concentration in the samples (see Section 12 of this appendix).

11.2.9 Observe the presence of peaks in the EIPs that would confirm the presence of any target aromatic compounds. Using the EIP areas and EIP linear regression calibrations compare the abundance of the aromatic peaks, and if appropriate, determine approximate crude oil contamination in the sample for each of the target ions.

11.3 Qualitative Identification-See Section 17 of this method for schematic flowchart.
