
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 5 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of Crude Oil Contamination in Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluids by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) (EPA Method 1655)
####### see

9.6 A clean NAF sample shall be prepared and analyzed according to Section 11. Ultimately the oil-equivalent concentration from the TIC or EIP signal measured in the clean NAF sample shall be subtracted from the corresponding authentic field samples in order to calculate the true contaminant concentration (% oil) in the field samples (Section 12).

9.7 The specifications contained in this method can be met if the apparatus used is calibrated properly, and maintained in a calibrated state. The standards used for initial precision and recovery (Section 9.2 of this appendix) and ongoing precision and recovery (Section 11.6 of this appendix) shall be identical, so that the most precise results will be obtained. The GC/MS instrument will provide the most reproducible results if dedicated to the setting and conditions required for the analyses given in this method.

9.8 Depending on specific program requirements, field replicates and field spikes of crude oil into samples may be required when this method is used to assess the precision and accuracy of the sampling and sample transporting techniques.

10.1 Establish gas chromatographic/mass spectrometer operating conditions given in Table 1 of this appendix. Perform the GC/MS system hardware-tune as outlined by the manufacture. The gas chromatograph shall be calibrated using the internal standard technique.

10.2 Internal standard calibration procedure-1,3,5-trichlorobenzene (TCB) has been shown to be free of interferences from diesel and crude oils and is a suitable internal standard.

10.3 The system performance test mix standards prepared in Section 7.2.4 of this appendix shall be used to establish retention times and establish qualitative detection limits.

10.3.1 Spike a 500-mL aliquot of the 1.25 mg/mL SPTM standard with 500 µL of the TCB internal standard solution.

10.3.2 Inject 1.0 µL of this spiked SPTM standard onto the GC/MS in order to demonstrate proper retention times. For the GC/MS used in the development of this method, the ten compounds in the mixture had typical retention times shown in Table 2 of this appendix. Extracted ion scans for m/z 91 and 105 showed a maximum abundance of 400,000.

10.3.3 Spike a 500-mL aliquot of the 0.125 mg/mL SPTM standard with 500 µL of the TCB internal standard solution.

10.3.4 Inject 1.0 µL of this spiked SPTM standard onto the GC/MS to monitor detectable levels. For the GC/MS used in the development of this test, all ten compounds showed a minimum peak height of three times signal to noise. Extracted ion scans for m/z 91 and 105 showed a maximum abundance of 40,000.

10.4 GC/MS crude oil/drilling fluid calibration-There are two methods of quantification: Total Area Integration (C-C) and EIP Area Integration using m/z's 91 and 105. The Total Area Integration method should be used as the primary technique for quantifying crude oil in NAFs. The EIP Area Integration method should be used as a confirmatory technique for NAFs. However, the EIP Area Integration method shall be used as the primary method for quantifying oil in enhanced mineral oil (EMO) based drilling fluid. Inject 1.0 µL of each of the four crude oil/drilling fluid calibration standards prepared in Section 7.2.5 of this appendix into the GC/MS. The internal standard should elute approximately 21-22 minutes after injection. For the GC/MS used in the development of this method, the internal standard peak was (35 to 40)% of full scale at an abundance of about 3.5e + 07.

10.4.1 Total Area Integration Method-For each of the four calibration standards obtain the following: Using a straight baseline integration technique, obtain the total ion chromatogram (TIC) area from Cto C. Obtain the TIC area of the internal standard (TCB). Subtract the TCB area from the C-Carea to obtain the true C-Carea. Using the C-Cand TCB areas, and known internal standard concentration, generate a linear regression calibration using the internal standard method. The rvalue for the linear regression curve shall be greater than or equal to 0.998. Some synthetic fluids might have peaks that elute in the window and would interfere with the analysis. In this case the integration window can be shifted to other areas of scan where there are no interfering peaks from the synthetic base fluid.

10.4.2 EIP Area Integration-For each of the four calibration standards generate Extracted Ion Profiles (EIPs) for m/z 91 and 105. Using straight baseline integration techniques, obtain the following EIP areas:

10.4.2.1 For m/z 91 integrate the area under the curve from approximately 9 minutes to 21-22 minutes, just prior to but not including the internal standard.

10.4.2.2 For m/z 105 integrate the area under the curve from approximately 10.5 minutes to 26.5 minutes.

10.4.2.3 Obtain the internal standard area from the TCB in each of the four calibration standards, using m/z 180.

10.4.2.4 Using the EIP areas for TCB, m/z 91 and m/z105, and the known concentration of internal standard, generate linear regression calibration curves for the target ions 91 and 105 using the internal standard method. The rvalue for each of the EIP linear regression curves shall be greater than or equal to 0.998.

10.4.2.5 Some base fluids might produce a background level that would show up on the extracted ion profiles, but there should not be any real peaks (signal to noise ratio of 1:3) from the clean base fluids.

11.1 Sample Preparation-

11.1.1 Mix the authentic field sample (drilling fluid) well. Transfer (weigh) a 30-g aliquot of the sample to a labeled centrifuge tube.

11.1.2 Centrifuge the aliquot for a minimum of 15 min at approximately 15,000 rpm, in order to obtain a solids free supernate.

11.1.3 Weigh 0.5 g of the supernate directly into a tared and appropriately labeled GC straight vial.
