
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 5 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of Crude Oil Contamination in Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluids by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) (EPA Method 1655)
####### i.e.

9.1.6 Analysis of a sample of the clean NAF(s) (as sent from the supplier-, has not been circulated downhole) used in the drilling operations is required.

9.1.7 The laboratory shall, on an ongoing basis, demonstrate through calibration verification and the analysis of the precision and recovery standard (Section 7.2.6 of this appendix) that the analysis system is in control. These procedures are described in Section 11.6 of this appendix.

9.1.8 The laboratory shall maintain records to define the quality of data that is generated.

9.2 Initial precision and accuracy-The initial precision and recovery test shall be performed using the precision and recovery standard (1% by weight Reference Oil in IO Lab drilling fluid). The laboratory shall generate acceptable precision and recovery by performing the following operations.

9.2.1 Prepare four separate aliquots of the precision and recovery standard using the procedure outlined in Section 7.2.6 of this appendix. Analyze these aliquots using the procedures outlined in Section 11 of this appendix.

9.2.2 Using the results of the set of four analyses, compute the average recovery (X) in weight percent and the standard deviation of the recovery(s) for each sample.

9.2.3 If s and X meet the acceptance criteria of 80% to 110%, system performance is acceptable and analysis of samples may begin. If, however, s exceeds the precision limit or X falls outside the range for accuracy, system performance is unacceptable. In this event, review this method, correct the problem, and repeat the test.

9.2.4 Accuracy and precision-The average percent recovery (P) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (Sp) Express the accuracy assessment as a percent recovery interval from P-2Sto P + 2S. For example, if P = 90% and S= 10% for four analyses of crude oil in NAF, the accuracy interval is expressed as 70% to 110%. Update the accuracy assessment on a regular basis.

9.3 Blanks-Rinse glassware and centrifuge tubes used in the method with 30 mL of methylene chloride, remove a 0.5-g aliquot of the solvent, spike it with the 500 µL of the internal standard solution (Section 7.2.3 of this appendix) and analyze a 1-µL aliquot of the blank sample using the procedure in Section 11 of this appendix. Compute results per Section 12 of this appendix.

9.4 Matrix spike sample-Prepare a matrix spike sample according to procedure outlined in Section 7.2.6 of this appendix. Analyze the sample and calculate the concentration (% oil) in the drilling fluid and % recovery of oil from the spiked drilling fluid using the methods described in Sections 11 and 12 of this appendix.

9.5 Duplicates-A duplicate field sample shall be prepared and analyzed according to Section 11. The relative percent difference (RPD) of the calculated concentrations shall be less than 15%.

9.5.1 Analyze each of the duplicates per the procedure in Section 11 of this appendix and compute the results per Section 12 of this appendix.

9.5.2 Calculate the relative percent difference (RPD) between the two results per the following equation:

9.5.3 If the RPD criteria are not met, the analytical system shall be judged to be out of control, and the problem must be immediately identified and corrected, and the sample batch re-analyzed.
