
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 5 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of Crude Oil Contamination in Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluids by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) (EPA Method 1655)
####### see

7.2.6 Precision and recovery standard (mid level crude oil/drilling fluid calibration standard)-Prepare a mid point crude oil/ drilling fluid calibration using IO Lab drilling fluid and Reference Oil at a concentration of 1.0% by weight. Prepare this standard according to the procedures outlined in Section 7.2.5.1 through 7.2.5.5 of this appendix, with the exception that only "Jar 3" needs to be prepared. Remove and spike with internal standard, as many 0.5-g aliquots as needed to complete the GC/MS analysis (Section 11.6 of this appendix-bracketing authentic samples every 12 hours with precision and recovery standard) and the initial demonstration exercise described in Section 9.2 of this appendix.

7.2.7 Stability of standards

7.2.7.1 When not used, standards shall be stored in the dark, at -5 to -20 &#xB0;C in screw-capped vials with PTFE-lined lids. Place a mark on the vial at the level of the solution so that solvent loss by evaporation can be detected. Bring the vial to room temperature prior to use.

7.2.7.2 Solutions used for quantitative purposes shall be analyzed within 48 hours of preparation and on a monthly basis thereafter for signs of degradation. A standard shall remain acceptable if the peak area remains within +/-15% of the area obtained in the initial analysis of the standard.

8.1 Collect NAF and base fluid samples in 100- to 200-mL glass bottles with PTFE- or aluminum foil lined caps.

8.2 Samples collected in the field shall be stored refrigerated until time of preparation.

8.3 Sample and extract holding times for this method have not yet been established. However, based on initial experience with the method, samples should be analyzed within seven to ten days of collection and extracts should be analyzed within seven days of preparation.

8.4 After completion of GC/MS analysis, extracts shall be refrigerated at 4 &#xB0;C until further notification of sample disposal.

9.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality assurance program (Reference 16.4). The minimum requirements of this program shall consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability, and ongoing analysis of standards, and blanks as a test of continued performance, analyses of spiked samples to assess accuracy and analysis of duplicates to assess precision. Laboratory performance shall be compared to established performance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet the performance characteristics of the method.

9.1.1 The analyst shall make an initial demonstration of the ability to generate acceptable accuracy and precision with this method. This ability shall be established as described in Section 9.2 of this appendix.

9.1.2 The analyst is permitted to modify this method to improve separations or lower the cost of measurements, provided all performance requirements are met. Each time a modification is made to the method, the analyst is required to repeat the calibration (Section 10.4 of this appendix) and to repeat the initial demonstration procedure described in Section 9.2 of this appendix.

9.1.3 Analyses of blanks are required to demonstrate freedom from contamination. The procedures and criteria for analysis of a blank are described in Section 9.3 of this appendix.

9.1.4 Analysis of a matrix spike sample is required to demonstrate method accuracy. The procedure and QC criteria for spiking are described in Section 9.4 of this appendix.

9.1.5 Analysis of a duplicate field sample is required to demonstrate method precision. The procedure and QC criteria for duplicates are described in Section 9.5 of this appendix.
