
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 5 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of Crude Oil Contamination in Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluids by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) (EPA Method 1655)
####### i.e.

7.2.4 GC/MS system performance test mix (SPTM) standards-The SPTM standards shall contain octane, decane, dodecane, tetradecane, tetradecene, toluene, ethylbenzene, 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene, 1-methylnaphthalene and 1,3-dimethylnaphthalene. These compounds can be purchased individually or obtained as a mixture (, Supelco, Catalog No. 4-7300). Prepare a high concentration of the SPTM standard at 62.5 mg/mL in methylene chloride. Prepare a medium concentration SPTM standard at 1.25 mg/mL by transferring 1.0 mL of the 62.5 mg/mL solution into a 50 mL volumetric flask and diluting to the mark with methylene chloride. Finally, prepare a low concentration SPTM standard at 0.125 mg/mL by transferring 1.0 mL of the 1.25 mg/mL solution into a 10-mL volumetric flask and diluting to the mark with methylene chloride.

7.2.5 Crude oil/drilling fluid calibration standards-Prepare a 4-point crude oil/drilling fluid calibration at concentrations of 0% (no spike-clean drilling fluid), 0.5%, 1.0%, and 2.0% by weight according to the procedures outlined in this appendix using the Reference Crude Oil:

7.2.5.1 Label 4 jars with the following identification: Jar 1-0%Ref-IOLab, Jar 2-0.5%Ref-IOLab, Jar 3-1%Ref-IOLab, and Jar 4-2%Ref-IOLab.

7.2.5.2 Weigh 4, 50-g aliquots of well mixed IO Lab drilling fluid into each of the 4 jars.

7.2.5.3 Add Reference Oil at 0.5%, 1.0%, and 2.0% by weight to jars 2, 3, and 4 respectively. Jar 1 shall not be spiked with Reference Oil in order to retain a "0%" oil concentration.

7.2.5.4 Thoroughly mix the contents of each of the 4 jars, using clean glass stirring rods.
