
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 5 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of Crude Oil Contamination in Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluids by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) (EPA Method 1655)

1.1 This method determines crude (formation) oil contamination, or other petroleum oil contamination, in non-aqueous drilling fluids (NAFs) by comparing the gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) fingerprint scan and extracted ion scans of the test sample to that of an uncontaminated sample.

1.2 This method can be used for monitoring oil contamination of NAFs or monitoring oil contamination of the base fluid used in the NAF formulations.

1.3 Any modification of this method beyond those expressly permitted shall be considered as a major modification subject to application and approval of alternative test procedures under 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5.

1.4 The gas chromatography/mass spectrometry portions of this method are restricted to use by, or under the supervision of analysts experienced in the use of GC/MS and in the interpretation of gas chromatograms and extracted ion scans. Each laboratory that uses this method must generate acceptable results using the procedures described in Sections 7, 9.2, and 12 of this appendix.

2.1 Analysis of NAF for crude oil contamination is a step-wise process. The analyst first performs a qualitative assessment of the presence or absence of crude oil in the sample. If crude oil is detected during this qualitative assessment, the analyst must perform a quantitative analysis of the crude oil concentration.

2.2 A sample of NAF is centrifuged to obtain a solids free supernate.

2.3 The test sample is prepared by removing an aliquot of the solids free supernate, spiking it with internal standard, and analyzing it using GC/MS techniques. The components are separated by the gas chromatograph and detected by the mass spectrometer.

2.4 Qualitative identification of crude oil contamination is performed by comparing the Total Ion Chromatograph (TIC) scans and Extracted Ion Profile (EIP) scans of test sample to that of uncontaminated base fluids, and examining the profiles for chromatographic signatures diagnostic of oil contamination.

2.5 The presence or absence of crude oil contamination observed in the full scan profiles and selected extracted ion profiles determines further sample quantitation and reporting requirements.

2.6 If crude oil is detected in the qualitative analysis, quantitative analysis must be performed by calibrating the GC/MS using a designated NAF spiked with known concentrations of a designated oil.

2.7 Quality is assured through reproducible calibration and testing of GC/MS system and through analysis of quality control samples.

3.1 A NAF is one in which the continuous-phase is a water immiscible fluid such as an oleaginous material (e.g., mineral oil, enhance mineral oil, paraffinic oil, or synthetic material such as olefins and vegetable esters).

3.2 TIC-Total Ion Chromatograph.

3.3 EIP-Extracted Ion Profile.

3.4 TCB-1,3,5-trichlorobenzene is used as the internal standard in this method.

3.5 SPTM-System Performance Test Mix standards are used to establish retention times and monitor detection levels.

4.1 Solvents, reagents, glassware, and other sample processing hardware may yield artifacts and/or elevated baselines causing misinterpretation of chromatograms.

4.2 All Materials used in the analysis shall be demonstrated to be free from interferences by running method blanks. Specific selection of reagents and purification of solvents by distillation in all-glass systems may be required.

4.3 Glassware shall be cleaned by rinsing with solvent and baking at 400 &#xB0;C for a minimum of 1 hour.

4.4 Interferences may vary from source to source, depending on the diversity of the samples being tested.

4.5 Variations in and additions of base fluids and/or drilling fluid additives (emulsifiers, dispersants, fluid loss control agents, etc.) might also cause interferences and misinterpretation of chromatograms.

4.6 Difference in light crude oils, medium crude oils, and heavy crude oils will result in different responses and thus different interpretation of scans and calculated percentages.

5.1 The toxicity or carcinogenicity of each reagent used in this method has not been precisely determined; however each chemical shall be treated as a potential health hazard. Exposure to these chemicals should be reduced to the lowest possible level.

5.2 Unknown samples may contain high concentration of volatile toxic compounds. Sample containers should be opened in a hood and handled with gloves to prevent exposure. In addition, all sample preparation should be conducted in a fume hood to limit the potential exposure to harmful contaminates.

5.3 This method does not address all safety issues associated with its use. The laboratory is responsible for maintaining a safe work environment and a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method. A reference file of material safety data sheets (MSDSs) shall be available to all personnel involved in these analyses. Additional references to laboratory safety can be found in References 16.1 through 16.3.

5.4 NAF base fluids may cause skin irritation, protective gloves are recommended while handling these samples.

6.1 Equipment for glassware cleaning.

6.1.1 Laboratory sink with overhead fume hood.

6.1.2 Kiln-Capable of reaching 450 &#xB0;C within 2 hours and holding 450 &#xB0;C within +/-10 &#xB0;C, with temperature controller and safety switch (Cress Manufacturing Co., Santa Fe Springs, CA B31H or X31TS or equivalent).

6.2 Equipment for sample preparation.

6.2.1 Laboratory fume hood.

6.2.2 Analytical balance-Capable of weighing 0.1 mg.

6.2.3 Glassware.

6.2.3.1 Disposable pipettes-Pasteur, 150 mm long by 5 mm ID (Fisher Scientific 13-678-6A, or equivalent) baked at 400 &#xB0;C for a minimum of 1 hour.

6.2.3.2 Glass volumetric pipettes or gas tight syringes-1.0-mL +/-1% and 0.5-mL +/-1%.

6.2.3.3 Volumetric flasks-Glass, class A, 10-mL, 50-mL and 100-mL.

6.2.3.4-Sample vials-Glass, 1- to 3-mL (baked at 400 &#xB0;C for a minimum of 1 hour) with PTFE-lined screw or crimp cap.

6.2.3.5 Centrifuge and centrifuge tubes-Centrifuge capable of 10,000 rpm, or better, (International Equipment Co., IEC Centra MP4 or equivalent) and 50-mL centrifuge tubes (Nalgene, Ultratube, Thin Wall 25 x 89 mm, #3410-2539).

6.3 Gas Chromatograph/Mass Spectrometer (GC/MS):

6.3.1 Gas Chromatograph-An analytical system complete with a temperature-programmable gas chromatograph suitable for split/splitless injection and all required accessories, including syringes, analytical columns, and gases.

6.3.1.1 Column-30 m (or 60 m) x 0.32 mm ID (or 0.25 mm ID) 1 µm film thickness (or 0.25 µm film thickness) silicone-coated fused-silica capillary column (J&W Scientific DB-5 or equivalent).

6.3.2 Mass Spectrometer-Capable of scanning from 35 to 600 amu every 1 sec or less, using 70 volts (nominal) electron energy in the electron impact ionization mode (Hewlett Packard 5970MS or comparable).

6.3.3 GC/MS interface-the interface is a capillary-direct interface from the GC to the MS.

6.3.4-Data system-A computer system must be interfaced to the mass spectrometer. The system must allow the continuous acquisition and storage on machine-readable media of all mass spectra obtained throughout the duration of the chromatographic program. The computer must have software that can search any GC/MS data file for ions of a specific mass and that can plot such ion abundance versus retention time or scan number. This type of plot is defined as an Extracted Ion Current Profile (EIP). Software must also be available that allows integrating the abundance in any total ion chromatogram (TIC) or EIP between specified retention time or scan-number limits. It is advisable that the most recent version of the EPA/NIST Mass Spectral Library be available.

7.1 Methylene chloride-Pesticide grade or equivalent. Use when necessary for sample dilution.

7.2 Standards-Prepare from pure individual standard materials or purchase as certified solutions. If compound purity is 96% or greater, the weight may be used without correction to compute the concentration of the standard.

7.2.1 Crude Oil Reference-Obtain a sample of a crude oil with a known API gravity. This oil shall be used in the calibration procedures.

7.2.2 Synthetic Base Fluid-Obtain a sample of clean internal olefin (IO) Lab drilling fluid (as sent from the supplier-has not been circulated downhole). This drilling fluid shall be used in the calibration procedures.

7.2.3 Internal standard-Prepare a 0.01 g/mL solution of 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene (TCB). Dissolve 1.0 g of TCB in methylene chloride and dilute to volume in a 100-mL volumetric flask. Stopper, vortex, and transfer the solution to a 150-mL bottle with PTFE-lined cap. Label appropriately, and store at -5 &#xB0;C to 20 &#xB0;C. Mark the level of the meniscus on the bottle to detect solvent loss.
