
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 5 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of Crude Oil Contamination in Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluids by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) (EPA Method 1655)
####### see

11.3.1 Qualitative identification shall be accomplished by comparison of the TIC and EIP area data from an authentic sample to the TIC and EIP area data from the calibration standards (Section 10.4). Crude oil shall be identified by the presence of Cto Cn-alkanes and corresponding target aromatics.

11.3.2 Using the calibration data, establish the identity of the Cto Cpeaks in the chromatogram of the sample. Using the calibration data, establish the identity of any target aromatics present on the extracted ion scans.

11.3.3 Crude oil is not present in a detectable amount in the sample if there are no target aromatics seen on the extracted ion scans. The experience of the analyst shall weigh heavily in the determination of the presence of peaks at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3 or greater.

11.3.4 If the chromatogram shows n-alkanes from Cto Cand target aromatics to be present, contamination by crude oil or diesel shall be suspected and quantitative analysis shall be determined. If there are no n-alkanes present that are not seen on the blank, and no target aromatics are seen, the sample can be considered to be free of contamination.

11.4 Quantitative Identification-

11.4.1 Determine the area of the peaks from Cto Cas outlined in the calibration section (10.4.1 of this appendix). If the area of the peaks for the sample is greater than that for the clean NAF (base fluid) use the crude oil/drilling fluid calibration TIC linear regression curve to determine approximate crude oil contamination.

11.4.2 Using the EIPs outlined in Section 10.4.2 of this appendix, determine the presence of any target aromatics. Using the integration techniques outlined in Section 10.4.2 of this appendix, obtain the EIP areas for m/z 91 and 105. Use the crude oil/drilling fluid calibration EIP linear regression curves to determine approximate crude oil contamination.

11.5 Complex Samples-

11.5.1 The most common interferences in the determination of crude oil can be from mineral oil, diesel oil, and proprietary additives in drilling fluids.

11.5.2 Mineral oil can typically be identified by its lower target aromatic content, and narrow range of strong peaks.

11.5.3 Diesel oil can typically be identified by low amounts of n-alkanes from Cto C, and the absence of n-alkanes greater than C.

11.5.4 Crude oils can usually be distinguished by the presence of high aromatics, increased intensities of Cto Cpeaks, and/ or the presence of higher hydrocarbons of Cand greater (which may be difficult to see in some synthetic fluids at low contamination levels).

11.5.4.1 Oil condensates from gas wells are low in molecular weight and will normally produce strong chromatographic peaks in the C-Crange. If a sample of the gas condensate crude oil from the formation is available, the oil can be distinguished from other potential sources of contamination by using it to prepare a calibration standard.

11.5.4.2 Asphaltene crude oils with API gravity <20 may not produce chromatographic peaks strong enough to show contamination at levels of the calibration. Extracted ion peaks should be easier to see than increased intensities for the C8 to C13 peaks. If a sample of asphaltene crude from the formation is available, a calibration standard shall be prepared.

11.6 System and Laboratory Performance-

11.6.1 At the beginning of each 8-hour shift during which analyses are performed, GC crude oil/drilling fluid calibration and system performance test mixes shall be verified. For these tests, analysis of the medium-level calibration standard (1-% Reference Oil in IO Lab drilling fluid, and 1.25 mg/mL SPTM with internal standard) shall be used to verify all performance criteria. Adjustments and/or re-calibration (per Section 10 of this appendix) shall be performed until all performance criteria are met. Only after all performance criteria are met may samples and blanks be analyzed.

11.6.2 Inject 1.0 µL of the medium-level GC/MS crude oil/drilling fluid calibration standard into the GC instrument according to the procedures in Section 11.2 of this appendix. Verify that the linear regression curves for both TIC area and EIP areas are still valid using this continuing calibration standard.
