
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 7 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of the Amount of Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluid (NAF) Base Fluid From Drill Cuttings by a Retort Chamber (Derived From API Recommended Practice 13B-2) (EPA Method 1674)
####### see

e. Collect a representative cuttings sample (note in section 1 of this appendix).

f. Partially fill the retort cup with cuttings and place the lid on the cup.

g. Screw the retort cup (with lid) onto the retort body, weigh and record the total mass. This is mass (B), grams.

h. Attach the condenser. Place the retort assembly into the heating jacket.

i. Weigh and record the mass of the clean and dry liquid receiver. This is mass (C), grams. Place the receiver below condenser outlet.

j. Turn on the retort. Allow it to run a minimum of 1 hour.

k. Remove the liquid receiver. Allow it to cool. Record the volume of water recovered. This is (V), cm.

l. Weigh and record the mass of the receiver and its liquid contents (oil plus water). This is mass (D), grams.

m. Turn off the retort. Remove the retort assembly and condenser from the heating jacket and allow them to cool. Remove the condenser.

n. Weigh and record the mass of the cooled retort assembly without the condenser. This is mass (E), grams.

o. Clean the retort assembly and condenser.

a. Calculate the mass of oil (NAF base fluid) from the cuttings as follows:

1. Mass of the wet cuttings sample (M) equals the mass of the retort assembly with the wet cuttings sample (B) minus the mass of the empty retort assembly (A).

2. Mass of the dry retorted cuttings (M) equals the mass of the cooled retort assembly (E) minus the mass of the empty retort assembly (A).

3. Mass of the NAF base fluid (M) equals the mass of the liquid receiver with its contents (D) minus the sum of the mass of the dry receiver (C) and the mass of the water (V).

b. Mass balance requirement:

The sum of M, M, and V shall be within 5% of the mass of the wet sample.

The procedure shall be repeated if this requirement is not met.

c. Reporting oil from cuttings:

1. Assume that all oil recovered is NAF base fluid.

2. The mass percent NAF base fluid retained on the cuttings (%BF) for the sampled discharge "i" is equal to 100 times the mass of the NAF base fluid (M) divided by the mass of the wet cuttings sample (M).
