
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 7 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of the Amount of Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluid (NAF) Base Fluid From Drill Cuttings by a Retort Chamber (Derived From API Recommended Practice 13B-2) (EPA Method 1674)

a. This procedure is specifically intended to measure the amount of non-aqueous drilling fluid (NAF) base fluid from cuttings generated during a drilling operation. This procedure is a retort test which measures all oily material (NAF base fluid) and water released from a cuttings sample when heated in a calibrated and properly operating "Retort" instrument.

b. In this retort test a known mass of cuttings is heated in the retort chamber to vaporize the liquids associated with the sample. The NAF base fluid and water vapors are then condensed, collected, and measured in a precision graduated receiver.

a. Retort instrument-The recommended retort instrument has a 50-cmvolume with an external heating jacket.

Retort Specifications:

1. Retort assembly-retort body, cup and lid.

(a) Material: 303 stainless steel or equivalent.

(b) Volume: Retort cup with lid.

Cup Volume: 50-cm.

Precision: +/-0.25-cm.

2. Condenser-capable of cooling the oil and water vapors below their liquification temperature.

3. Heating jacket-nominal 350 watts.

4. Temperature control-capable of limiting temperature of retort to at least 930 &#xB0;F (500 &#xB0;C) and enough to boil off all NAFs.

b. Liquid receiver (10-cm, 20-cm)-the 10-cmand 20-cmreceivers are specially designed cylindrical glassware with rounded bottom to facilitate cleaning and funnel-shaped top to catch falling drops. For compliance monitoring under the NPDES program, the analyst shall use the 10-cmliquid receiver with 0.1 ml graduations to achieve greater accuracy.

1. Receiver specifications:

Total volume: 10-cm, 20-cm.

Precision (0 to 100%): +/-0.05 cm, +/-0.05 cm.

Outside diameter: 10-mm, 13-mm.

Wall thickness: 1.5 +/-0.1mm, 1.2 +/-0.1mm.

Frequency of graduation marks (0 to 100%): 0.10-cm, 0.10-cm.

Calibration: To contain "TC" @ 20 &#xB0;C.

Scale: cm, cm

2. Material-Pyrex &#xAE; or equivalent glass.

c. Toploading balance-capable of weighing 2000 g and precision of at least 0.1 g. Unless motion is a problem, the analyst shall use an electronic balance. Where motion is a problem, the analyst may use a triple beam balance.

d. Fine steel wool (No. 000)-for packing retort body.

e. Thread sealant lubricant: high temperature lubricant, e.g. Never-Seez &#xAE; or equivalent.

f. Pipe cleaners-to clean condenser and retort stem.

g. Brush-to clean receivers.

h. Retort spatula-to clean retort cup.

i. Corkscrew-to remove spent steel wool.

a. Clean and dry the retort assembly and condenser.

b. Pack the retort body with steel wool.

c. Apply lubricant/sealant to threads of retort cup and retort stem.

d. Weigh and record the total mass of the retort cup, lid, and retort body with steel wool. This is mass (A), grams.
