
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 435 - OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart A - Offshore Subcategory
###### Appendix 5 to Subpart A of Part 435 - Determination of Crude Oil Contamination in Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluids by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) (EPA Method 1655)
####### see

11.6.3 After this analysis is complete, inject 1.0 µL of the 1.25 mg/mL SPTM (containing internal standard) into the GC instrument and verify the proper retention times are met (Table 2 of this appendix).

11.6.4 Retention times-Retention time of the internal standard. The absolute retention time of the TCB internal standard shall be within the range 21.0 +/-0.5 minutes. Relative retention times of the n-alkanes: The retention times of the n-alkanes relative to the TCB internal standard shall be similar to those given in Table 2 of this appendix.

11.6.17 Schematic Flowchart for Qualitative Identification

The concentration of oil in NAFs drilling fluids shall be computed relative to peak areas between Cand C(using the Total Area Integration method) or total peak areas from extracted ion profiles (using the Extracted Ion Profile Method). In either case, there is a measurable amount of peak area, even in clean drilling fluid samples, due to spurious peaks and electrometer "noise" that contributes to the total signal measured using either of the quantification methods. In this procedure, a correction for this signal is applied, using the blank or clean sample correction technique described in American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) Method D-3328-90, Comparison of Waterborne Oil by Gas Chromatography. In this method, the "oil equivalents" measured in a blank sample by total area gas chromatography are subtracted from that determined for a field sample to arrive at the most accurate measure of oil residue in the authentic sample.

12.1 Total Area Integration Method

12.1.1 Using Cto CTIC area, the TCB area in the clean NAF sample and the TIC linear regression curve, compute the oil equivalent concentration of the Cto Cretention time range in the clean NAF.

12.1.2 Using the corresponding information for the authentic sample, compute the oil equivalent concentration of the Cto Cretention time range in the authentic sample.

12.1.3 Calculate the concentration (% oil) of oil in the sample by subtracting the oil equivalent concentration (% oil) found in the clean NAF from the oil equivalent concentration (% oil) found in the authentic sample.

12.2 EIP Area Integration Method

12.2.1 Using either m/z 91 or 105 EIP areas, the TCB area in the clean NAF sample, and the appropriate EIP linear regression curve, compute the oil equivalent concentration of the in the clean NAF.

12.2.2 Using the corresponding information for the authentic sample, compute its oil equivalent concentration.

12.2.3 Calculate the concentration (% oil) of oil in the sample by subtracting the oil equivalent concentration (% oil) found in the clean NAF from the oil equivalent concentration (% oil) found in the authentic sample.

13.1 Specification in this method are adopted from EPA Method 1663, Differentiation of Diesel and Crude Oil by GC/FID (Reference 16.5).

13.2 Single laboratory method performance using an Internal Olefin (IO) drilling fluid fortified at 0.5% oil using a 35 API gravity oil was:

14.1 The solvent used in this method poses little threat to the environment when recycled and managed properly.

15.1 It is the laboratory's responsibility to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restriction, and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance with all sewage discharge permits and regulations is also required.

15.2 All authentic samples (drilling fluids) failing the RPE (fluorescence) test (indicated by the presence of fluorescence) shall be retained and classified as contaminated samples. Treatment and ultimate fate of these samples is not outlined in this SOP.

15.3 For further information on waste management, consult "The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel", and "Less is Better: Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction", both available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036.

16.1 Carcinogens-"Working With Carcinogens." Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control (available through National Technical Information Systems, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161, document no. PB-277256): August 1977.

16.2 "OSHA Safety and Health Standards, General Industry [29 CFR 1910], Revised." Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA 2206. Washington, DC: January 1976.

16.3 "Handbook of Analytical Quality Control in Water and Wastewater Laboratories." USEPA, EMSSL-CI, EPA-600/4-79-019. Cincinnati, OH: March 1979.

16.4 "Method 1663, Differentiation of Diesel and Crude Oil by GC/FID, Methods for the Determination of Diesel, Mineral, and Crude Oils in Offshore Oil and Gas Industry Discharges, EPA 821-R-92-008, Office of Water Engineering and Analysis Division, Washington, DC: December 1992.
