
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 52.34 Action on petitions submitted under section 126 relating to emissions of nitrogen oxides.
####### Purpose and applicability.

(b)Paragraphs (c), (e)(1) and (e)(2), (g), and (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section set forth the Administrator's findings with respect to the 1-hour national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) for ozone that certain new and existing sources of emissions of nitrogen oxides ("NO") in certain States emit or would emit NOin violation of the prohibition in section 110(a)(2)(D)(i) of the Clean Air Act (CAA) on emissions in amounts that contribute significantly to nonattainment in certain States that submitted petitions in 1997-1998 addressing such NOemissions under section 126 of the CAA. Paragraphs (d), (e)(3) and (e)(4), (f), and (h)(3) and (h)(4) of this section set forth the Administrator's affirmative technical determinations with respect to the 8-hour NAAQS for ozone that certain new and existing sources of emissions of NOin certain States emit or would emit NOin violation of the prohibition in section 110(a)(2)(D)(i) of the CAA on emissions in amounts that contribute significantly to nonattainment in, or interfere with maintenance by, certain States that submitted petitions in 1997-1998 addressing such NOemissions under section 126 of the CAA. (As used in this section, the term new source includes modified sources, as well.) Paragraph (i) of this section explains the circumstances under which the findings for sources in a specific State would be withdrawn. Paragraph (j) of this section sets forth the control requirements that apply to the sources of NOemissions affected by the findings. Paragraph (k) of this section indefinitely stays the effectiveness of the affirmative technical determinations with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard.

(1) The States that submitted such petitions are Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont (each of which, hereinafter in this section, may be referred to also as a "petitioning State").

(2) The new and existing sources of NOemissions covered by the petitions that emit or would emit NOemissions in amounts that make such significant contributions are large electric generating units (EGUs) and large non-EGUs.
