
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 436 - MINERAL MINING AND PROCESSING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart B - Crushed Stone Subcategory
###### ยง 436.21 Specialized definitions.

For the purpose of this subpart:

(a) Except as provided below, the general definitions, abbreviations and methods of analysis set forth in part 401 of this chapter shall apply to this subpart.

(b) The term "mine dewatering" shall mean any water that is impounded or that collects in the mine and is pumped, drained or otherwise removed from the mine through the efforts of the mine operator. However, if a mine is also used for treatment of process generated waste water, discharges of commingled water from the facilities shall be deemed discharges of process generated waste water.

(c) The term "10-year 24-hour precipitation event" shall mean the maximum 24-hour precipitation event with a probable reoccurrence interval of once in 10 years. This information is available in "Weather Bureau Technical Paper No. 40," May 1961 and "NOAA Atlas 2," 1973 for the 11 Western States, and may be obtained from the National Climatic Center of the Environmental Data Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce.

(d) The term "mine" shall mean an area of land, surface or underground, actively mined for the production of crushed and broken stone from natural deposits.

(e) The term "process generated waste water" shall mean any waste water used in the slurry transport of mined material, air emissions control, or processing exclusive of mining. The term shall also include any other water which becomes commingled with such waste water in a pit, pond, lagoon, mine, or other facility used for treatment of such waste water.
