
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 438 - METAL PRODUCTS AND MACHINERY POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Appendix B to Part 438 - Oily Operations Definitions
###### Alkaline Cleaning for Oil Removal

is a general term for the application of an alkaline cleaning agent to a metal part to remove oil and grease during the manufacture, maintenance, or rebuilding of a metal product. This unit operation does not include washing of the finished products after routine use (as defined in "Washing (Finished Products)" in this appendix), or applying an alkaline cleaning agent to remove nonoily contaminants such as dirt and scale (as defined in "Alkaline Treatment Without Cyanide" in this appendix and "Alkaline Treatment With Cyanide" in appendix C of this part). Wastewater generated includes spent cleaning solutions and rinse waters.

(1) Alkaline cleaning is performed to remove foreign contaminants from parts. This operation usually is done prior to finishing (e.g., electroplating).

(2) Emulsion cleaning is an alkaline cleaning operation that uses either complex chemical enzymes or common organic solvents (e.g., kerosene, mineral oil, glycols, and benzene) dispersed in water with the aid of an emulsifying agent. The pH of the solvent usually is between 7 and 9, and, depending on the solvent used, cleaning is performed at temperatures from room temperature to 82 &#xB0;C (180 &#xB0;F). This operation often is used as a replacement for vapor degreasing.
