
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 13 - CLAIMS COLLECTION STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Collection
###### ยง 13.14 Use of credit reporting agencies.

EPA reports delinquent debts to appropriate credit reporting agencies.

(a) EPA provides the following information to the reporting agencies:

(1) A statement that the claim is valid and is overdue;

(2) The name, address, taxpayer identification number and any other information necessary to establish the identity of the debtor;

(3) The amount, status and history of the debt; and

(4) The program or pertinent activity under which the debt arose.

(b) Before disclosing debt information, EPA will:

(1) Take reasonable action to locate the debtor if a current address is not available; and

(2) If a current address is available, notify the debtor by certified mail, return receipt requested, that:

(i) The designated EPA official has reviewed the claim and has determined that it is valid and overdue;

(ii) That within 60 days EPA intends to disclose to a credit reporting agency the information authorized for disclosure by this subsection; and

(iii) The debtor can request a complete explanation of the claim, can dispute the information in EPA's records concerning the claim, and can file for an administrative review, waiver or reconsideration of the claim, where applicable.

(c) Before information is submitted to a credit reporting agency, EPA will provide a written statement to the reporting agency that all required actions have been taken. Additionally, EPA will, thereafter, ensure that the credit reporting agency is promptly informed of any substantive change in the conditions or amounts of the debt, and promptly verify or correct information relevant to the claim.

(d) If a debtor disputes the validity of the debt, the credit reporting agency will refer the matter to the appropriate EPA official. The credit reporting agency will exclude the debt from its reports until EPA certifies in writing that the debt is valid.
