
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 441 - DENTAL OFFICE POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### § 441.50 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
###### Contents.

(3)(i) The One-Time Compliance Report for dental dischargers subject to this part that do not place or remove dental amalgam as described at § 441.10(f) must include the: facility name, physical address, mailing address, contact information, name of the operator(s) and owner(s); and a certification statement that the dental discharger does not place dental amalgam and does not remove amalgam except in limited circumstances.

(ii) The One-Time Compliance Report for dental dischargers subject to the standards of this part must include:

(A) The facility name, physical address, mailing address, and contact information.

(B) Name(s) of the operator(s) and owner(s).

(C) A description of the operation at the dental facility including: The total number of chairs, the total number of chairs at which dental amalgam may be present in the resulting wastewater, and a description of any existing amalgam separator(s) or equivalent device(s) currently operated to include, at a minimum, the make, model, year of installation.

(D) Certification that the amalgam separator(s) or equivalent device is designed and will be operated and maintained to meet the requirements specified in § 441.30 or § 441.40.

(E) Certification that the dental discharger is implementing BMPs specified in § 441.30(b) or § 441.40(b) and will continue to do so.

(F) The name of the third-party service provider that maintains the amalgam separator(s) or equivalent device(s) operated at the dental office, if applicable. Otherwise, a brief description of the practices employed by the facility to ensure proper operation and maintenance in accordance with § 441.30 or § 441.40.
