
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 441 - DENTAL OFFICE POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### ยง 441.50 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
###### Retention period.

(5)As long as a Dental Discharger subject to this part is in operation, or until ownership is transferred, the Dental Discharger or an agent or representative of the dental discharger must maintain the One-Time Compliance Report required at paragraph (a) of this section and make it available for inspection in either physical or electronic form.

(b) Dental Dischargers or an agent or representative of the dental discharger must maintain and make available for inspection in either physical or electronic form, for a minimum of three years:

(1) Documentation of the date, person(s) conducting the inspection, and results of each inspection of the amalgam separator(s) or equivalent device(s), and a summary of follow-up actions, if needed.

(2) Documentation of amalgam retaining container or equivalent container replacement (including the date, as applicable).

(3) Documentation of all dates that collected dental amalgam is picked up or shipped for proper disposal in accordance with 40 CFR 261.5(g)(3), and the name of the permitted or licensed treatment, storage or disposal facility receiving the amalgam retaining containers.

(4) Documentation of any repair or replacement of an amalgam separator or equivalent device, including the date, person(s) making the repair or replacement, and a description of the repair or replacement (including make and model).

(5) Dischargers or an agent or representative of the dental discharger must maintain and make available for inspection in either physical or electronic form the manufacturers operating manual for the current device.
