
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 445 - LANDFILLS POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### ยง 445.1 General applicability.

(a) As defined more specifically in each subpart and except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section, this part applies to discharges of wastewater from landfill units.

(b) The provisions of this part do not apply to wastewater discharges from land application or land treatment units, surface impoundments, underground injection wells, waste piles, salt dome formations, salt bed formations, underground mines or caves as these terms are defined in 40 CFR 257.2 and 260.10.

(c) The provisions of this part do not apply to wastewater generated off-site of a landfill facility, including wastewater generated off-site from washing vehicles or from waste transfer stations.

(d) The provisions of this part do not apply to discharges of contaminated ground water or wastewater from recovery pumping wells.

(e) This part does not apply to discharges of landfill wastewater from landfills operated in conjunction with other industrial or commercial operations when the landfill only receives wastes generated by the industrial or commercial operation directly associated with the landfill.

(f) This part does not apply to discharges of landfill wastewater from landfills operated in conjunction with other industrial or commercial operations when the landfill receives wastes generated by the industrial or commercial operation directly associated with the landfill and also receives other wastes provided the other wastes received for disposal are generated by a facility that is subject to the same provisions in 40 CFR subchapter N as the industrial or commercial operation or the other wastes received are of similar nature to the wastes generated by the industrial or commercial operation.

(g) This part does not apply to landfills operated in conjunction with Centralized Waste Treatment (CWT) facilities subject to 40 CFR part 437 so long as the CWT facility commingles the landfill wastewater with other non-landfill wastewater for discharge. A landfill directly associated with a CWT facility is subject to this part if the CWT facility discharges landfill wastewater separately from other CWT wastewater or commingles the wastewater from its landfill only with wastewater from other landfills.

(h) This part does not apply to landfills operated in conjunction with other industrial or commercial operations when the landfill receives wastes from public service activities so long as the company owning the landfill does not receive a fee or other remuneration for the disposal service.
