
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 455 - PESTICIDE CHEMICALS
##### Table 8 to Part 455 - List of Pollution Prevention Alternative Practices

A modification to the list of practices on this table that an individual facility must comply with to be eligible for the pollution prevention alternative is allowed with acceptable justification as listed on this table as approved by the permit writer or control authority (using BPJ/BEJ) after submittal by the facility of a request for modification. A modification, for purposes of this table, means that a facility would no longer have to perform a listed practice or would need to comply with a modified practice. However, the modification only applies to the specific practice for which the modification has been justified and to no other listed practices. Facilities are required to thoroughly discuss all modifications in the on-site compliance paperwork as described above in the limitations and standards (ยง 455.41(c)).

1. Must use water conservation practices. These practices may include, but are not limited to using: spray nozzles or flow reduction devices on hoses, low volume/high pressure rinsing equipment, floor scrubbing machines, mop(s) and bucket(s), and counter current staged drum rinsing stations.

2. Must practice good housekeeping:

(a) Perform preventative maintenance on all valves and fittings and repair leaky valves and fittings in a timely manner;

(b) Use drip pans under any valves or fittings where hoses or lines are routinely connected and disconnected, collect for reuse when possible; and

(c) Perform quick cleanup of leaks and spills in outdoor bulk storage or process areas.

3. Must sweep or vacuum dry production areas prior to rinsing with water.

4. Must clean interiors of dry formulation equipment with dry carrier prior to any water rinse. The carrier material must be stored and reused in future formulation of the same or compatible product or properly disposed of as solid waste.

5. If operating continuous overflow Department of Transportation (DOT) aerosol leak test baths->

Must operate with some recirculation.

6. If operating air pollution control wet scrubbers->

Must operate as recirculating scrubbers (periodic blowdown is allowed as needed).

7. When performing rinsing of raw material drums, storage drums, and/or shipping containers that contained liquid PAI(s) and/or inert ingredients for the formulation of water-based products->

Must reuse the drum/shipping container rinsate DIRECTLY into the formulation at the time of formulation; or store for use in future formulation of same or compatible product; or use a staged drum rinsing station (counter current rinsing).

8. When performing rinsing of raw material drums, storage drums, and/or shipping containers that contained liquid PAI(s) and/or inert ingredients for the formulation of solvent-based products->

Must reuse the drum/shipping container rinsate DIRECTLY into the formulation at the time of formulation or store for use in future formulation of same or compatible product.
