
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 461 - BATTERY MANUFACTURING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### Subpart C - Lead Subcategory
###### ยง 461.34 Pretreatment standards for existing sources (PSES).

(a) Except as provided in 40 CFR 403.7 and 403.13, any existing source subject to this subpart that introduces pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works must comply with 40 CFR part 403 and achieve the pretreatment standards for existing sources listed below:

(1) Subpart C-Open Formation-Dehydrated-PSES.

(2) Subpart C-Open Formation-Wet-PSES.

(3) Subpart C-Plate Soak-PSES.

(4) Subpart C-Battery Wash-(Detergent)-PSES.

(5) Subpart C-Direct Chill Lead Casting-PSES.

(6) Subpart C-Mold Release Formulation-PSES.

(7) Subpart C-Truck Wash-PSES.

(8) Subpart C-Laundry-PSES.

(9) Subpart C-Miscellaneous Wastewater Streams-PSES.

(b) There shall be no discharge allowance for process wastewater pollutants from any battery manufacturing operation other than those battery manufacturing operations listed above.

(c)(1) In cases where battery employee shower wastewater containing concentrations of lead exceeding 0.20 mg/l is combined with process wastewaters prior to treatment, the Control Authority may, for purposes of applying the Combined Wastestream Formula under ยง 403.6(e) of this chapter, notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 403.6(e), exercise its discretion and classify battery employee shower wastewater as an unregulated rather than a dilute (F) wastestream.

(2) Before the Control Authority may exercise its discretion to classify such a stream as an unregulated stream, the battery manufacturer must provide engineering, production, and sampling and analysis information sufficient to allow a determination by the Control Authority on how the stream should be classified.
