
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 461 - BATTERY MANUFACTURING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 461.2 General definitions.

In addition to the definitions set forth in 40 CFR part 401, the following definitions apply to this part:

(a) "Battery" means a modular electric power source where part or all of the fuel is contained within the unit and electric power is generated directly from a chemical reaction rather than indirectly through a heat cycle engine. In this regulation there is no differentiation between a single cell and a battery.

(b) "Battery manufacturing operations" means all of the specific processes used to produce a battery including the manufacture of anodes and cathodes and associated ancillary operations. These manufacturing operations are excluded from regulation under any other point source category.

(c) "Ancillary operations" means all of the operations specific to battery manufacturing and not included specifically within anode or cathode manufacture (ancillary operations are primarily associated with battery assembly and chemical production of anode or cathode active materials).

(d) "Plate soak" shall mean the process operation of soaking or reacting lead subcategory battery plates, that are more than 2.5 mm (0.100 in) thick, in sulfuric acid.

(e) "Discharge allowance" means the amount of pollutant (mg per kg of production unit) that a plant will be permitted to discharge. For this category the allowances are specific to battery manufacturing operations.

(f) "Miscellaneous wastewater streams" shall mean the combined wastewater streams from the process operations listed below for each subcategory. If a plant has one of these streams then the plant receives the entire miscellaneous waste stream allowance.
