
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart C - Alaska
###### ยง 52.73 Approval of plans.

(a) Carbon monoxide.

(1) Anchorage.

(i) EPA approves as a revision to the Alaska State Implementation Plan, the Anchorage Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan (Volume II Section III.B of the State Air Quality Control Plan, adopted January 2, 2004, effective February 20, 2004 and Volume III of the Appendices adopted January 2, 2004, effective February 20, 2004) submitted by the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation on February 18, 2004.

(ii) EPA approves as a revision to the Alaska State Implementation Plan, the Anchorage Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan (Volume II Sections II, III.A and III.B of the State Air Quality Control Plan adopted August 20, 2010, effective October 29, 2010, and Volume III of the Appendices adopted August 20, 2010, effective October 29, 2010) submitted by the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation on September 29, 2010.

(iii) The EPA approves the following revised sections of the Anchorage Transportation Control Program, Anchorage CO Maintenance Plan (Volume II, Section III.B) of the Alaska SIP Submittal adopted July 13, 2011, and submitted on September 20, 2011: Planning Process (Section III.B.1), Maintenance Area Boundary (Section III.B.2), Nature of the CO Problem-Causes and Trends (Section III.B.3), Transportation Control Strategies (Section III.B.5), Modeling and Projections (Section III.B.6), Contingency Plan (Section III.B.7), Anchorage Emergency Episode Plan (Section III.B.8), Assurance of Adequacy (Section III.B.9) and Redesignation Request (Section III.B.11). The EPA also approves the following revised sections of the Appendices (Volume III): Anchorage Assembly Resolution No. 2011-133 (Appendix III.B.1), Anchorage 2007 Carbon Monoxide Emission Inventory and 2007-2023 Emission Projections (Appendix III.B.3), Analysis of Probability of Complying with the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for Carbon Monoxide in Anchorage between 2007 and 2023 (Appendix III.B.6) and Affidavit of Oral Hearing (Appendix III.B.10).

(iv) The EPA approves the following revised sections of the Anchorage Transportation Control Program, Anchorage CO Limited Maintenance Plan (Volume II, Section III.B), of the Alaska SIP Submittal adopted February 22, 2013, and submitted on April 22, 2013: Carbon Monoxide Monitoring Program (Section III.B.4) Air Quality Conformity Procedures (Section III.B.10), Limited Maintenance Plan for 2014-2024 (Section III.B.12). In this action, the EPA also approves the following revised sections of the Appendices (Volume III): Anchorage Assembly Resolution No. 2013-20 (Appendix III.B.1) and Affidavit of Oral Hearing (Appendix III.B.10).

(2) Fairbanks.

(i) EPA approves as a revision to the Alaska State Implementation Plan, the Fairbanks Carbon Monoxide Maintenance Plan (Volume II.C of the State Air Quality Control Plan, adopted April 27, 2004 and Volume III.C of the Appendices adopted April 27, 2004, effective June 24, 2004) submitted by the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation on June 21, 2004.

(ii) The EPA approves as a revision to the Alaska State Implementation Plan, the Fairbanks Carbon Monoxide Limited Maintenance Plan (Volume II, Section III.C.12 of the State Air Quality Control Plan, adopted February 22, 2013) submitted by the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation on April 22, 2013. In this action, the EPA is also approving the following revised sections of the Fairbanks Transportation Control Program (Volume II, Section III.C): Air Quality Emissions Data (Section III.C.3), Carbon Monoxide Network Monitoring Program (Section III.C.4), Modeling and Projections (Section III.C.6), and Air Quality Conformity Procedures (Section III.C.10); and the following revised sections of the Appendices to Volume II of the Fairbanks Transportation Control Program (Volume III): Section III.C.1 and Section III.C.10, all of which were included in the April 22, 2013 SIP submittal.
