
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart C - Alaska
###### ยง 52.74 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identified the original "Air Quality Implementation Plan for the State of Alaska" and all revisions submitted by Alaska that were Federally-approved prior to March 4, 2014.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on April 25, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Modifications to the implementation plan including a revision to Title 18, Chapter 50, section 160 and other nonregulatory provisions submitted on June 22, 1972, by the Governor.

(2) Compliance schedules submitted on August 2, 1973, by the State of Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation.

(3) Compliance schedules submitted on August 23, 1973, by the State of Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation.

(4) Compliance schedules submitted on September 30, 1975, by the State of Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation.

(5) Compliance schedules submitted on January 6, 1976, by the State of Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation.

(6) Compliance schedules submitted on September 30, 1975, by the State of Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation.

(7) Part D attainment plans for the Anchorage and Fairbanks carbon monoxide nonattainment areas submitted by the Governor of Alaska on January 18, 1980 as follows:

(8) On January 18, 1980, the State of Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation submitted a plan revision to meet the requirements of Air Quality Monitoring, 40 CFR part 58, subpart C, ยง 58.20, as follows:

(9) Provisions of a State Air Quality Control Plan submitted by the Governor of Alaska on January 18, 1980, as follows:

(10) On November 15, 1983 the State of Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation submitted a revision to add a lead strategy to the Alaska Implementation Plan.

(11) Provisions of a State Air Quality Control Plan submitted by the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation on November 15, 1983, as follows:

(12) On September 29, 1982, the Commissioner of the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation submitted a carbon monoxide attainment plan for the cities of Anchorage (section III.B) and Fairbanks (section III.C) as a revision to the Alaska State Implementation Plan. On November 15, 1983, a revision to this plan was submitted for the city of Anchorage. Supplement to the Anchorage and Fairbanks plans revisions to section III.A (Areawide Pollutant Control Program, Statewide Transportation Control Program) and a new State Regulation 18 AAC Chapter 52 (Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Requirements for Motor Vehicles) were submitted on May 31, 1985.
