
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart C - Alaska
###### ยง 52.74 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)(A) June 22, 1993, letter from the Governor of the State of Alaska to EPA, Region 10, submitting the moderate PMnonattainment area SIP for Mendenhall Valley, Alaska.

(B) The Control Plan for Mendenhall Valley of Juneau, effective July 8, 1993.

(C) August 25, 1993, letter from ADEC showing, through enclosures, the permanent filing record for the supplement to the existing Eagle River PMcontrol plan. The Lieutenant Governor certified the supplement on March 8, 1993.

(D) The January 21, 1992, supplement to the existing Eagle River PMcontrol plan, effective April 7, 1993. Also included is an August 27, 1991 Municipality of Anchorage memorandum listing the 1991 capital improvement project priorities and an October 11, 1991, Municipality of Anchorage memorandum summarizing the supplement to the existing PMcontrol plan.

(19) The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) takes action on and/or approves regulations from three submittals received from the ADEC on July 17, 1990, October 15, 1991 and on March 24, 1994, which pertain to correcting SIP deficiencies in the CFR; amendments to regulations dealing with Air Quality Control, 18 AAC 50, for inclusion into Alaska's SIP; and additional amendments to 18 AAC 50, Air Quality Control, for inclusion into Alaska's SIP to assure compliance with new source review permitting requirements for sources located in nonattainment areas for either carbon monoxide or particulate matter.
