
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 465 - COIL COATING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 465.03 Monitoring and reporting requirements.

The following special monitoring requirements apply to all facilities controlled by this regulation.

(a) Periodic analyses for cyanide are not required when both of the following conditions are met:

(1) The first wastewater sample taken in each calendar year has been analyzed and found to contain less than 0.07 mg/l cyanide

(2) The owner or operator of the coil coating facility certifies in writing to the POTW authority or permit issuing authority that cyanide is not used in the coil coating process.

(b) The "monthly average" regulatory values shall be the basis for the monthly average discharge limits in direct discharge permits and for pretreatment standards. Compliance with the monthly discharge limit is required regardless of the number of samples analyzed and averaged.

(c) The analytical method required for determination of petroleum hydrocarbons (non-polar material) is given under the listing for "oil and grease" at 40 CFR 136.3(a), Table IB and must be used after December 31, 2005.

(d) The owner or operator of any canmaking facility subject to the provisions of this regulation shall advise the permit issuing authority or POTW authority and the EPA Office of Water Regulations and Standards, Washington, DC 20460 whenever it has been decided that the plant will manufacture cans from an aluminum alloy containing less than 1.0 percent manganese. Such notification shall be made in writing, not less than 30 days in advance of the scheduled production and shall provide the chemical analysis of the alloy and the expected period of use.
