
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 465 - COIL COATING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 465.02 General definitions.

In addition to the definitions set forth in 40 CFR part 401, the following definitions apply to this part:

(a) "Coil" means a strip of basis material rolled into a roll for handling.

(b) "Coil coating " means the process of converting basis material strip into coated stock. Usually cleaning, conversion coating, and painting are performed on the basis material. This regulation covers processes which perform any two or more of the three operations.

(c) "Basis material" means the coiled strip which is processed.

(d) "Area processed" means the area actually exposed to process solutions. Usually this includes both sides of the metal strip.

(e) "Steel basis material" means cold rolled steel, hot rolled steel, and chrome, nickel and tin coated steel which are processed in coil coating.

(f) "Galvanized basis material" means zinc coated steel, galvalum, brass and other copper base strip which is processed in coil coating.

(g) "Aluminum basis material" means aluminum, aluminum alloys and aluminum coated steels which are processed in coil coating.

(h) The term "can" means a container formed from sheet metal and consisting of a body and two ends or a body and a top.

(i) The term "canmaking" means the manufacturing process or processes used to manufacture a can from a basic metal.

(j) The term "Total Toxic Organics (TTO)" shall mean the sum of the mass of each of the following toxic organic compounds which are found at a concentration greater than 0.010 mg/1.
