
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter N - Effluent Guidelines and Standards
#### PART 468 - COPPER FORMING POINT SOURCE CATEGORY
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 468.02 Specialized definitions.

In addition to the definitions set forth in 40 CFR part 401 and the chemical analysis methods in 40 CFR part 136, the following definitions apply to this part:

(a) The term "alkaline cleaning bath" shall mean a bath consisting of an alkaline cleaning solution through which a workpiece is processed.

(b) The term "alkaline cleaning rinse" shall mean a rinse following an alkaline cleaning bath through which a workpiece is processed. A rinse consisting of a series of rinse tanks is considered as a single rinse.

(c) The term "ancillary operation" shall mean any operation associated with a primary forming operation. These ancillary operations include surface and heat treatment, hydrotesting, sawing, and surface coating.

(d) The term "annealing with oil" shall mean the use of oil to quench a workpiece as it passes from an annealing furnace.

(e) The term "annealing with water" shall mean the use of a water spray or bath, of which water is the major constituent, to quench a workpiece as it passes from an annealing furnace.

(f) The term "cold rolling" shall mean the process of rolling a workpiece below the recrystallization temperature of the copper or copper alloy.

(g) The term "drawing" shall mean pulling the workpiece through a die or succession of dies to reduce the diameter or alter its shape.

(h) The term "extrusion" shall mean the application of pressure to a copper workpiece, forcing the copper to flow through a die orifice.

(i) The term "extrusion heat treatment" shall mean the spray application of water to a workpiece immediately following extrusions for the purpose of heat treatment.

(j) The term "heat treatment" shall mean the application or removal of heat to a workpiece to change the physical properties of the metal.

(k) The term "pickling bath" shall mean any chemical bath (other than alkaline cleaning) through which a workpiece is processed.

(l) The term "pickling fume scrubber" shall mean the process of using an air pollution control device to remove particulates and fumes from air above a pickling bath by entraining the pollutants in water.

(m) The term "pickling rinse" shall mean a rinse, other than an alkaline cleaning rinse, through which a workpiece is processed. A rinse consisting of a series of rinse tanks is considered as a single rinse.

(n) The term "off-kilogram (off-pound)" shall mean the mass of copper or copper alloy removed from a forming or ancillary operation at the end of a process cycle for transfer to a different machine or process.

(o) The term "rolling" shall mean the reduction in the thickness or diameter of a workpiece by passing it between rollers.

(p) The term "solution heat treatment" shall mean the process introducing a workpiece into a quench bath for the purpose of heat treatment following rolling, drawing or extrusion.

(q) The term "spent lubricant" shall mean water or an oil-water mixture which is used in forming operations to reduce friction, heat and wear and ultimately discharged.

(r) The term "Total Toxic Organics (TTO)" shall mean the sum of the masses or concentrations of each of the following toxic organic compounds which is found at a concentration greater than 0.010 mg/l.

(s) The term "alkaline cleaning rinse for forged parts" shall mean a rinse following an alkaline cleaning bath through which a forged part is processed. A rinse consisting of a series of rinse tanks is considered as a single rinse.

(t) The term "pickling rinse for forged parts" shall mean a rinse, other than an alkaline cleaning rinse, through which forged parts are processed. A rinse consisting of a series of rinse tanks is considered as a single rinse.

(u) The term "tumbling or burnishing" shall mean the process of polishing, deburring, removing sharp corners, and generally smoothing parts for both cosmetic and functional purposes, as well as the process of washing the finished parts and cleaning the abrasion media.

(v) The term "surface coating" shall mean the process of coating a copper workpiece as well as the associated surface finishing and flattening.

(w) The term "miscellaneous waste stream" shall mean the following additional waste streams related to forming copper: hydrotesting, sawing, surface milling, and maintenance.

(x) The term "precious metals" shall mean gold, platinum, palladium and silver and their alloys. Any alloy containing 30 or greater percent by weight of precious metals is considered a precious metal.

(y) The term "beryllium copper alloy" shall mean any copper alloy that is alloyed to contain 0.10 percent or greater beryllium.
