
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart C - Alaska
###### ยง 52.74 Original identification of plan section.
####### Additional material.

(ii)(A) Revisions to Alaska's State Air Quality Control Plan, Volume II: Section I, "Background," I.A; I.B., I.C., I.D., and I.E., adopted 11/26/96; Part B-Anchorage Contingency Measures, adopted 5/18/98; Section II, "State Air Quality Control Program," pages II-1 through II-4, adopted 5/18/98; Section III.A. "Statewide Carbon Monoxide Control Program," pages III.A.1-1 through III.A.3-4, adopted 5/18/98; III.B. "Anchorage Transportation Control Program," pages III.B.1-1 through III.B.6-7, adopted 5/18/98; III.B.8. "Modeling and Projections," pages III.B.8-1 through III.B.9-2, adopted 5/18/98; III.B.10, "Anchorage Air Pollution Episode Curtailment Plan," pages III.B.10-1 and III.B.10-2, revised 12/19/93; III.B.11. "Assurance of Adequacy," pages III.B.11-1 through III.B.11-3, revised 5/18/98; III.B.12. "Emissions Budget," page III.B.12-1, adopted 11/26/96; and various CO SIP streamlining edits throughout Volume II and Volume III of the State Air Quality Control Plan which make the document easier to read and better organized, adopted 5/18/98.

(30) On November 1, 1999, the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (ADEC) submitted a SIP revision to revise the visible emission limit for coal burning boilers, during startup; shutdown; soot-blowing; grate cleaning; or other routine maintenance activities, that began operation before August 17, 1971, and submitted the required demonstration. This SIP revision is approved for the following facilities that submitted the required demonstration: Golden Valley Electric Association (GVEA), Healy (Unit #1); Eielson Air Force Base, Fairbanks (6 units); Aurora Energy, Fairbanks (4 units); and Clear Air Force Base, Clear (3 units). Additionally, we are approving a revision to the definitions section that will add definitions of grate cleaning and soot-blowing.
