
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart C - Alaska
###### ยง 52.74 Original identification of plan section.
####### Incorporation by reference.

(i)

(A) The following new and revised sections of ADEC's air quality regulations:

(1) 18 AAC 50.030 Air Quality Control as in effect May 17, 2008.

(2) 18 AAC 52 Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Requirements for Motor Vehicles as in effect May 17, 2008.

(3) AO 2006-13 an ordinance amending Anchorage Municipal Code chapters 15.80 and 15.85 to comply with State I/M regulations and to comply with DMV Electronic Procedures January 24, 2006 and Chapters 15.80 and 15.85 of the Anchorage Municipal Code as approved February 14, 2006.

(ii) Additional material

(A) The following revised sections of Alaska's air quality regulations:

(1) State Air Quality Control Plan-Vol. II Analysis of Problems, Control Actions, Section II: Air Quality Program, April 4, 2008

(2) State Air Quality Control Plan-Vol. II Analysis of Problems, Control Actions, Section III.A. Statewide Carbon Monoxide Control Program, April 4, 2008

(3) State Air Quality Control Plan-Vol. II Analysis of Problems, Control Actions, Section III.C. Fairbanks Transportation Control Program, April 4, 2008

(4) Amendments to State Air Quality Control Plan, Vol. III Appendices (Appendix III.A.2 and Appendix to III.C.3), April 4, 2008

(5) State Air Quality Control Plan-Vol. II Analysis of Problems, Control Actions, Section III.B. Anchorage Transportation Control Program, September 19, 2006

(6) Vol. III. Appendix to Vol. II, Sec II, September 19, 2006

(7) Vol. III. Appendix to Vol. II, Sec III.A, September 19, 2006

(8) Vol. III. Appendix to Vol. II, Sec III.B, September 19, 2006

(9) Vol. III. Appendix to Vol. II, Sec III.C, September 19, 2006

(38) On November 19, 2010, the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (ADEC) submitted a revision to the State of Alaska Implementation Plan that adds a definition of "Subject to regulation" as it applies to greenhouse gases in Alaska's Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) permit rule.
