
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart C - Alaska
###### ยง 52.74 Original identification of plan section.
####### 2

() Title 9, Law: Chapter 52, Executive Branch Code of Ethics (9 AAC 52.010-9 AAC 52.990).

(41) On April 4, 2011, the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation submitted a SIP revision to meet the regional haze requirements of Clean Air Act sections 169A and 169B, and Federal Regulations 40 CFR 51.308, to implement a regional haze program in the State of Alaska for the first planning period through July 31, 2018.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) The following revised section of the Alaska Administrative Rules: Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, 18 AAC 50.260, "Guidelines for Best Available Retrofit Technology under the Regional Haze Rule", state effective date December 30, 2007.

(ii) Additional material.

(A) The following section of ADEC's air quality control regulations: 18 AAC 50.030 State Air Quality Control Plan; state effective date February 11, 2011; Volume II, Section III. F. Open Burning; and Volume II, Section III. K. Area Wide Pollution Control Program for Regional Haze.

(42) On May 14, 2009, the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation submitted a PMlimited maintenance plan and requested the redesignation of the Mendenhall Valley to attainment for PM. The state's limited maintenance plan and redesignation request meet the requirements of the Clean Air Act.

(i) Incorporation by reference.

(A) Alaska Administrative Code, Title 18, Chapter 50 Air Quality Control, Section 075 "Wood-fired heating devise visible emission standards," effective May 6, 2009.

(B) Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation State Air Quality Control Plan, Volume III, Appendix III.D.3.5, Ordinance of the City and Borough of Juneau, Alaska, Serial No. 2008-28, adopted February 20, 2009
