
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 13 - CLAIMS COLLECTION STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Administrative Offset
###### ยง 13.20 Administrative offset of general debts.
####### Review of administrative determination.

(g)(1) A debt will not be offset while a debtor is seeking either formal or informal review of the validity of the debt under this section or under another statute, regulation or contract. However, interest, penalty and administrative costs will continue to accrue during this period, unless otherwise waived by the Administrator. The Administrator may initiate offset as soon as practical after completion of review or after a debtor waives the opportunity to request review.

(2) The Administrator may administratively offset a debt prior to the completion of a formal or informal review where the determines that:

(i) Failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice EPA's ability to collect the debt; and

(ii) The time before the first offset is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of the review procedures. (Offsets taken prior to completion of the review process will be followed promptly by the completion of the process. Amounts recovered by offset but later found not to be owed will be refunded promptly.)

(3) The debtor must provide a written request for review of the decision to offset the debt no later than 15 days after the date of the notice of the offset unless a different time is specifically prescribed. The debtor's request must state the basis for the request for review.

(4) The Administrator may grant an extension of time for filing a request for review if the debtor shows good cause for the late filing. A debtor who fails timely to file or to request an extension waives the right to review.

(5) The Administrator will issue, no later than 60 days after the filing of the request, a written final decision based on the evidence, record and applicable law.
