
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### § 52.123 Approval status.

(a) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approved Arizona's plan for the attainment of the national standards.

(b) With the exception set forth in §§ 52.130 and 52.135, the Administrator approves the inspection and maintenance (I/M) program for motor vehicles; the carpool matching program; certain transit improvements; and certain traffic flow improvement and site-specific traffic control measures.

(c) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves the plan with respect to Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for the nonattainment areas listed in this paragraph.

(1) For TSP, the portion of the Tucson TSP Air Planning Area falling both within the area described by connecting the geographic points in the order listed below in this paragraph and within the townships and sections described below in this paragraph:

(d) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves the plan with respect to Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, for the nonattainment areas listed in this paragraph. In addition, continued satisfaction of the requirements of Part D for the ozone portion of the State Implementation Plan (SIP) depends on the adoption and submittal by January 1, 1981, of reasonably available control technology (RACT) requirements for sources covered by Control Technique Guidelines (CTG's) published between January 1978 and January 1979.

(1) Maricopa County Urban Planning Area for O.

(e) The Administrator finds that the plan does not satisfy all the requirements of Part D, Title I, of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1977 for the nonattainment and area pollutants listed in this paragraph.

(1) Maricopa County Urban Planning Area for CO and TSP.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The following portion of the Tucson TSP Air Planning Area: The area described by connecting the following geographic points in the order listed below:
