
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.123 Approval status.
####### Plan for Attainment of the 24-hour PM-10 Standard-Maricopa County PM-10 Nonattainment Area

(f) Maricopa County PM-10 Nonattainment Area (Phoenix Planning Area). (1)(May, 1997) submitted by the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality on May 7, 1997.

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) The Administrator approves the attainment and reasonable further progress demonstrations for the Maryvale PM-10 monitoring site and Salt River PM-10 monitoring site.

(iii) The approvals in paragraphs (f)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section are applicable only to the plan identified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section and do not constitute the Administrator's final decision as to the State's full compliance with the requirements of Clean Air Act sections 189(a)(1)(C) and 189(b)(1)(B) for RACM and BACM and sections 189(a)(1)(B), 189(b)(1)(A) and 189(c)(1) for attainment and reasonable further progress.

(g) Pursuant to the Federal planning authority in section 110(c) of the Clean Air Act, the Administrator finds that the applicable implementation plan for the Maricopa County ozone nonattainment area demonstrates the 15 percent VOC rate of progress required under section 182(b)(1)(A)(i).

(h) Pursuant to the federal planning authority in section 110(c) of the Clean Air Act, the Administrator finds that the applicable implementation plan for the Maricopa County PM-10 nonattainment area provides for the implementation of reasonably available control measures as required by section 189(a)(1)(C) and demonstrates attainment by the applicable attainment date as required and allowed by sections 172(c)(2) and 189(a)(1)(B).

(i) The Administrator approves the Maintenance Plan for the Tucson Air Planning Area submitted by the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality on October 6, 1997 as meeting requirements if section 175(A) of the Clean Air Act and the requirements of EPA's Limited Maintenance Plan option. The Administrator approves the Emissions Inventory contained in the Maintenance Plan as meeting the requirements of section 172(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act.
