
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.123 Approval status.
####### Revised Maricopa Association of Governments 1999 Serious Area Particulate Plan for PM-10 for the Maricopa County Nonattainment Area,,Maricopa County PM-10 Serious Area State Implementation Plan Revision, Agricultural Best Management Practices (BMP),

(j) The Administrator is approving the following elements of the Metropolitan Phoenix PM-10 Nonattainment Area Serious Area PM-10 Plan as contained inFebruary 2000, submitted February 16, 2000 andADEQ, June 2000, submitted on June 13, 2001:

(1) 1994 Base year emission inventory pursuant to Clean Air Act section 172(c)(3).

(2) The Provisions for implementing on all significant source categories reasonably available control measures (except for agricultural sources) and best available control measures for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to section Clean Air Act sections 189(a)(1)(c) and 189(b)(1)(b)).

(3) The demonstration of the impracticability of attainment by December 31, 2001 for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to Clean Air Act section 189(b)(1)(A)(ii).

(4) The demonstration of attainment by the most expeditious alternative date practicable for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to Clean Air Act section 189(b)(1)(A)(ii).

(5) The demonstration of reasonable further progress for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to Clean Air Act section 172(c)(2).

(6) The quantitative milestones for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to Clean Air Act section 189(c).

(7) The inclusion of the most stringent measures for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to Clean Air Act section 188(e).

(8) The demonstration that major sources of PM-10 precursors do not contribute significantly to violations for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to Clean Air Act section 189(e).

(9) The contingency measures for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to Clean Air Act section 172(c)(9).

(10) The transportation conformity budget for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to Clean Air Act section 176(c).

(11) The provisions for assuring adequate resources, personnel, and legal authority to carry out the plan for the annual and 24-hour PM-10 NAAQS pursuant to Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(E)(i).

(k) The Administrator approves the revised Enhanced Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program for the Maricopa County carbon monoxide and ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality on July 6, 2001 and April 10, 2002 as meeting the requirements of Clean Air Act sections 182(c)(3) and 187(a)(6) and the requirements for high enhanced inspection and maintenance programs contained in 40 CFR part 51, subpart S.
