
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.125 Control strategy and regulations: Sulfur oxides.

(a)(1) The requirements of subpart G of this chapter are not met since the control strategy does not analyze the impact of smelter fugitive emissions on ambient air quality (except at Hayden, Arizona) in the Central Arizona Intrastate, the Pima Intrastate, and the Southeast Arizona Intrastate (Cochise and Greenlee counties) Regions. Arizona must submit these smelter fugitive emissions control strategies to EPA by August 1, 1984. In addition, the requirements of ยง 51.281 of this chapter are not met since the plan does not require permanent control of fugitive smelter emissions necessary to attain and maintain the national standards for sulfur oxides. The control strategy for Hayden shows that these controls are required to attain and maintain the national standards, and the fugitive control strategy analyses required above may show that they are required for some or all of the other smelter towns in Arizona. Arizona must submit all fugitive emissions control regulations necessary to attain and maintain the national standards for sulfur oxides to EPA by August 1, 1984. Therefore, the control strategies and regulations for the six smelter areas in the Central Arizona Intrastate, the Pima Intrastate and the Southeast Arizona Intrastate (Cochise and Greenlee counties) Regions are incomplete due to Arizona's failure to address the fugitive emissions problems at copper smelters.

(2) Regulation 7-1-4.1 (copper smelters) of the Arizona Rules and Regulations for Air Pollution Control, as it pertains to existing copper smelters, is disapproved for the Central Arizona Intrastate, Pima Intrastate and Southeast Arizona Intrastate (Cochise and Greenlee counties) Regions.

(b) The requirements of subpart G and ยง 51.281 of this chapter are not met since the plan does not provide the degree of control necessary to attain and maintain the national standards for sulfur oxides in the Northern Arizona Intrastate Region. Therefore, Regulation 7-1-4.2(C) (fuel burning installations) of the Arizona Rules and Regulations for Air Pollution Control, as it pertains to existing sources, is disapproved in the Northern Arizona Intrastate Region for steam power generating installations having a total rated capacity equal to or greater than 6,500 million B.t.u. per hour.
