
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 501 - STATE SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Development and Submission of State Programs
###### ยง 501.14 Memorandum of Agreement with the Regional Administrator.

(a) Any State that seeks to administer a program under this part must submit a Memorandum of Agreement. The Memorandum of Agreement must be executed by the State Program Director and the Regional Administrator and will become effective when approved by the Regional Administrator. In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Memorandum of Agreement may include other terms, conditions, or agreements consistent with this part and relevant to the administration and enforcement of the State's regulatory program. The Administrator will not approve any Memorandum of Agreement which contains provisions which restrict EPA's exercise of its oversight responsibility.

(b) The Memorandum of Agreement shall include the following:

(1)(i) Provisions for the prompt transfer from EPA to the State of pending permit applications applicable to the State program (or portion of the State program for which the State seeks approval) and any other information relevant to program operation not already in the possession of the State Director (e.g., support files for permit issuance, compliance reports, etc.). If existing permits are transferred from EPA to the State for administration, the Memorandum of Agreement must contain provisions specifying a procedure for transferring the administration of these permits. If a State lacks the authority to directly administer permits issued by the federal government, a procedure may be established to transfer responsibility for these permits.

(ii) Where a State has been authorized by EPA to issue permits in accordance with ยง 501.13 on the Federal Indian reservation of the Indian Tribe seeking program approval, provisions describing how the transfer of pending permit applications, permits, and any other information relevant to the program operation not already in the possession of the Indian Tribe (support files for permit issuance, compliance reports, etc.) will be accomplished.

(2) Provisions specifying classes and categories of permit applications, draft permits, and proposed permits that the State will send to the Regional Administrator for review, comment and, where applicable, objection. These provisions must follow the permit review procedures set forth in 40 CFR 123.44.

(3) The Memorandum of Agreement must also specify the extent to which EPA will waive its right to review, object to, or comment upon State-issued permits.

(4) Whenever a waiver is granted under paragraph (3) of this section, the Memorandum of Agreement shall contain a statement that the Regional Administrator retains the right to terminate the waiver as to future permit actions, in whole or in part, at any time by sending the State Director written notice of termination.

(5) Provisions specifying the frequency and content of reports, documents and other information which the State is required to submit to EPA. The State shall allow EPA to routinely review State records, reports, and files relevant to the administration and enforcement of the approved program. State reports may be combined with grant reports where appropriate. The procedures shall implement the requirements of ยง 501.21.

(c) The Memorandum of Agreement must also provide for the following:

(1) The circumstances in which the State must promptly send notices, draft permits, final permits, or related documents to the Regional Administrator; and

(2) Provisions on the State's compliance monitoring and enforcement program, including:

(i) Provisions for coordination of compliance monitoring activities by the State and by EPA. These may specify the basis on which the Regional Administrator will select facilities or activities within the State for EPA inspection; and

(ii) Procedures to assure coordination of enforcement activities.

(3) When appropriate, provisions for joint processing of permits by the State and EPA for facilities or activities which require permits from both EPA and the State under different programs (see for example 40 CFR 124.4).

(4) Provisions for modification of the Memorandum of Agreement in accordance with this part.

(5) Provisions for modification of the Memorandum of Agreement in accordance with this part.

(d) The Memorandum of Agreement, the annual program grant and the State/EPA Agreement should be consistent. If the State/EPA Agreement indicates that a change is needed in the Memorandum of Agreement, the Memorandum of Agreement may be amended through the procedures set forth in this part. The State/EPA Agreement may not override the Memorandum of Agreement.
