
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 501 - STATE SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Development and Submission of State Programs
###### ยง 501.15 Requirements for permitting.
####### Monitoring and records.

(10)(i) The permittee must monitor and report monitoring results as specified elsewhere in this permit with a frequency dependent on the nature and effect of its sludge use or disposal practices. At a minimum, this will be as required by 40 CFR part 503.

(ii) Samples and measurements taken for the purpose of monitoring shall be representative of the monitored activity. The permittee shall retain records of all monitoring information, copies of all reports required by this permit, and records of all data used to complete the application for this permit, for a period of at least five years from the date of the sample, measurement, report or application, or longer as required by 40 CFR part 503. This period may be extended by request of the Director at any time.

(iii) Records of monitoring information shall include:

(A) The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements;

(B) The individual(s) who perfored the sampling or measurements;

(C) The date(s) analyses were performed;

(D) The individual(s) who performed the analyses;

(E) The analytical techniques or methods used; and

(F) The results of such analyses.

(iv) Monitoring must be conducted according to test procedures specified in 40 CFR part 503 or 136 unless other test procedures have been specified in this permit.

(v) The Clean Water Act provides that any person who knowingly falsifies, tampers with, or renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required to be maintained under this permit shall, upon conviction, be punished for the first conviction by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 2 years per violation, or by both. Subsequent convictions for the same offense are punishable by a fine of not more than $20,000 per day of violation, or imprisonment of not more than 4 years, or both.
