
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.129 Review of new sources and modifications.
####### Regulation for review of new sources and modifications.

(c)(1) The requirements of this paragraph are applicable to any stationary source in the Pima Intrastate Region (ยง 81.269 of this chapter), the construction or modification of which is commenced after the effective date of this regulation.

(2) No owner or operator shall commence construction or modification of any new source after the effective date of this regulation without first obtaining approval from the Administrator of the location of such source.

(i) Application for approval to construct or modify shall be made on forms furnished by the Administrator, or by other means prescribed by the Administrator.

(ii) A separate application is required for each source.

(iii) Each application shall be signed by the applicant.

(iv) Each application shall be accompanied by site information, stack data, and the nature and amount of emissions. Such information shall be sufficient to enable the Administrator to make any determination pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(v) Any additional information, plans, specifications, evidence or documentation that the Administrator may require shall be furnished upon request.

(3) No approval to construct or modify will be granted unless the applicant shows to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the source will not prevent or interfere with attainment or maintenance of any national standard.

(4)(i) Within twenty (20) days after receipt of an application to construct, or any addition to such application, the Administrator shall advise the owner or operator of any deficiency in the information submitted in support of the application. In the event of such a deficiency, the date of receipt of the application for the purpose of paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, shall be the date on which all required information is received by the Administrator.

(ii) Within thirty (30) days after receipt of a complete application, the Administrator shall:
