
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 501 - STATE SLUDGE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Development and Submission of State Programs
###### ยง 501.15 Requirements for permitting.
####### Conflict of interest.

(f)Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2), State sludge management programs shall ensure that any board or body which approves all or portions of permits shall not include as a member any person who receives, or has during the previous two years received, a significant portion of income directly or indirectly from permit holders or applicants for a permit.

(1) For the purposes of this paragraph:

(i) "Board or body" includes any individual, including the Director, who has or shares authority to approve all or portions of permits either in the first instance, as modified or reissued, or on appeal.

(ii) "Significant portion of income" means 10 percent or more of gross personal income for a calendar year, except that it means 50 percent or more of gross personal income for a calendar year if the recipient is over 60 years of age and is receiving that portion under retirement, pension, or similar arrangement.

(iii) "Permit holders or applicants for a permit" does not include any department or agency of a State government, such as a Department of Parks or a Department of Fish and Wildlife.

(iv) "Income" includes retirement benefits, consultant fees, and stock dividends.

(v) Income is not received "directly or indirectly from permit holders or applicants for a permit" when it is derived from mutual fund payments, or from other diversified investments for which the recipient does not know the identity of the primary sources of income.

(2) The Administrator may waive the requirements of this paragraph if the board or body which approves all or portions of permits is subject to, and certifies that it meets, a conflict-of-interest standard imposed as part of another EPA-approved State permitting program or an equivalent standard.
