
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 503 - STANDARDS FOR THE USE OR DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE SLUDGE
##### Subpart B - Land Application
###### § 503.12 General requirements.

(a) No person shall apply sewage sludge to the land except in accordance with the requirements in this subpart.

(b) No person shall apply bulk sewage sludge subject to the cumulative pollutant loading rates in § 503.13(b)(2) to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site if any of the cumulative pollutant loading rates in § 503.13(b)(2) has been reached.

(c) No person shall apply domestic septage to agricultural land, forest, or a reclamation site during a 365 day period if the annual application rate in § 503.13(c) has been reached during that period.

(d) The person who prepares bulk sewage sludge that is applied to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site shall provide the person who applies the bulk sewage sludge written notification of the concentration of total nitrogen (as N on a dry weight basis) in the bulk sewage sludge.

(e)(1) The person who applies sewage sludge to the land shall obtain information needed to comply with the requirements in this subpart.

(2)(i) Before bulk sewage sludge subject to the cumulative pollutant loading rates in § 503.13(b)(2) is applied to the land, the person who proposes to apply the bulk sewage sludge shall contact the permitting authority for the State in which the bulk sewage sludge will be applied to determine whether bulk sewage sludge subject to the cumulative pollutant loading rates in § 503.13(b)(2) has been applied to the site since July 20, 1993.

(ii) If bulk sewage sludge subject to the cumulative pollutant loading rates in § 503.13(b)(2) has not been applied to the site since July 20, 1993, the cumulative amount for each pollutant listed in Table 2 of § 503.13 may be applied to the site in accordance with § 503.13(a)(2)(i).

(iii) If bulk sewage sludge subject to the cumulative pollutant loading rates in § 503.13(b)(2) has been applied to the site since July 20, 1993, and the cumulative amount of each pollutant applied to the site in the bulk sewage sludge since that date is known, the cumulative amount of each pollutant applied to the site shall be used to determine the additional amount of each pollutant that can be applied to the site in accordance with § 503.13(a)(2)(i).

(iv) If bulk sewage sludge subject to the cumulative pollutant loading rates in § 503.13(b)(2) has been applied to the site since July 20, 1993, and the cumulative amount of each pollutant applied to the site in the bulk sewage sludge since that date is not known, an additional amount of each pollutant shall not be applied to the site in accordance with § 503.13(a)(2)(i).

(f) When a person who prepares bulk sewage sludge provides the bulk sewage sludge to a person who applies the bulk sewage sludge to the land, the person who prepares the bulk sewage sludge shall provide the person who applies the sewage sludge notice and necessary information to comply with the requirements in this subpart.

(g) When a person who prepares sewage sludge provides the sewage sludge to another person who prepares the sewage sludge, the person who provides the sewage sludge shall provide the person who receives the sewage sludge notice and necessary information to comply with the requirements in this subpart.

(h) The person who applies bulk sewage sludge to the land shall provide the owner or lease holder of the land on which the bulk sewage sludge is applied notice and necessary information to comply with the requirements in this subpart.

(i) Any person who prepares bulk sewage sludge that is applied to land in a State other than the State in which the bulk sewage sludge is prepared shall provide written notice, prior to the initial application of bulk sewage sludge to the land application site by the applier, to the permitting authority for the State in which the bulk sewage sludge is proposed to be applied. The notice shall include:

(1) The location, by either street address or latitude and longitude, of each land application site.

(2) The approximate time period bulk sewage sludge will be applied to the site.

(3) The name, address, telephone number, and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit number (if appropriate) for the person who prepares the bulk sewage sludge.

(4) The name, address, telephone number, and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit number (if appropriate) for the person who will apply the bulk sewage sludge.

(j) Any person who applies bulk sewage sludge subject to the cumulative pollutant loading rates in § 503.13(b)(2) to the land shall provide written notice, prior to the initial application of bulk sewage sludge to a land application site by the applier, to the permitting authority for the State in which the bulk sewage sludge will be applied and the permitting authority shall retain and provide access to the notice. The notice shall include:

(1) The location, by either street address or latitude and longitude, of the land application site.

(2) The name, address, telephone number, and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit number (if appropriate) of the person who will apply the bulk sewage sludge.
