
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 503 - STANDARDS FOR THE USE OR DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE SLUDGE
##### Subpart B - Land Application
###### ยง 503.14 Management practices.

(a) Bulk sewage sludge shall not be applied to the land if it is likely to adversely affect a threatened or endangered species listed under section 4 of the Endangered Species Act or its designated critical habitat.

(b) Bulk sewage sludge shall not be applied to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site that is flooded, frozen, or snow-covered so that the bulk sewage sludge enters a wetland or other waters of the United States, as defined in 40 CFR 122.2, except as provided in a permit issued pursuant to section 402 or 404 of the CWA.

(c) Bulk sewage sludge shall not be applied to agricultural land, forest, or a reclamation site that is 10 meters or less from waters of the United States, as defined in 40 CFR 122.2, unless otherwise specified by the permitting authority.

(d) Bulk sewage sludge shall be applied to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site at a whole sludge application rate that is equal to or less than the agronomic rate for the bulk sewage sludge, unless, in the case of a reclamation site, otherwise specified by the permitting authority.

(e) Either a label shall be affixed to the bag or other container in which sewage sludge that is sold or given away for application to the land, or an information sheet shall be provided to the person who receives sewage sludge sold or given away in an other container for application to the land. The label or information sheet shall contain the following information:

(1) The name and address of the person who prepared the sewage sludge that is sold or given away in a bag or other container for application to the land.

(2) A statement that application of the sewage sludge to the land is prohibited except in accordance with the instructions on the label or information sheet.

(3) The annual whole sludge application rate for the sewage sludge that does not cause any of the annual pollutant loading rates in Table 4 of ยง 503.13 to be exceeded.
