
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 503 - STANDARDS FOR THE USE OR DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE SLUDGE
##### Subpart B - Land Application
###### § 503.17 Recordkeeping.
####### i.e.

(E) The amount of sewage sludge (, metric tons) applied to each site.

(F) The following certification statement:

(G) A description of how the requirements to obtain information in § 503.12(e)(2) are met.

(H) The following certification statement:

(I) A description of how the management practices in § 503.14 are met for each site on which bulk sewage sludge is applied.

(J) The following certification statement when the bulk sewage sludge meets the Class B pathogen requirements in § 503.32(b):

(K) A description of how the site restrictions in § 503.32(b)(5) are met for each site on which Class B bulk sewage sludge is applied.

(L) The following certification statement when the vector attraction reduction requirement in either § 503.33(b)(9) or (b)(10) is met:

(M) If the vector attraction reduction requirements in either § 503.33 (b)(9) or (b)(10) are met, a description of how the requirements are met.

(6) If the requirements in § 503.13(a)(4)(ii) are met when sewage sludge is sold or given away in a bag or other container for application to the land, the person who prepares the sewage sludge that is sold or given away in a bag or other container shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years:

(i) The annual whole sludge application rate for the sewage sludge that does not cause the annual pollutant loading rates in Table 4 of § 503.13 to be exceeded.

(ii) The concentration of each pollutant listed in Table 4 of § 503.13 in the sewage sludge.

(iii) The following certification statement:

(iv) A description of how the Class A pathogen requirements in § 503.32(a) are met.

(v) A description of how one of the vector attraction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(8) is met.
