
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 503 - STANDARDS FOR THE USE OR DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE SLUDGE
##### Subpart C - Surface Disposal
###### § 503.27 Recordkeeping.

(a) When sewage sludge (other than domestic septage) is placed on an active sewage sludge unit:

(1) The person who prepares the sewage sludge shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years.

(i) The concentration of each pollutant listed in Table 1 of § 503.23 in the sewage sludge when the pollutant concentrations in Table 1 of § 503.23 are met.

(ii) The following certification statement:

(iii) A description of how the pathogen requirements in § 503.32 (a), (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) are met when one of those requirements is met.

(iv) A description of how one of the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(8) is met when one of those requirements is met.

(2) The owner/operator of the surface disposal site, shall develop the following information and shall retain that information for five years.

(i) The concentration of each pollutant listed in Table 2 of § 503.23 in the sewage sludge when the pollutant concentrations in Table 2 of § 503.23 are met or when site-specific pollutant limits in § 503.23(b) are met.

(ii) The following certification statement:

(iii) A description of how the management practices in § 503.24 are met.

(iv) A description of how the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(9) through (b)(11) are met if one of those requirements is met.

(b) When domestic septage is placed on a surface disposal site:

(1) If the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33(b)(12) are met, the person who places the domestic septage on the surface disposal site shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years:

(i) The following certification statement:

(ii) A description of how the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33(b)(12) are met.

(2) The owner/operator of the surface disposal site shall develop the following information and shall retain that information for five years:

(i) The following certification statement:

(ii) A description of how the management practices in § 503.24 are met.

(iii) A description how the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33(b)(9) through § 503.33(b)(11) are met if one of those requirements is met.
