
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### § 52.134 Compliance schedules.
####### Federal compliance schedule.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator of any stationary source subject to § 52.126(b) shall comply with such regulation on or before January 31, 1974. The owner or operator of the source subject to § 52.125(c) shall comply with such regulation at initial start-up of such source unless a compliance schedule has been submitted pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(i) Any owner or operator in compliance with § 52.126(b) on the effective date of this regulation shall certify such compliance to the Administrator no later than 120 days following the effective date of this paragraph.

(ii) Any owner or operator who achieves compliance with § 52.125(c) or § 52.126(b) after the effective date of this regulation shall certify such compliance to the Administrator within 5 days of the date compliance is achieved.

(2) Any owner or operator of the stationary source subject to § 52.125(c) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section may, no later than July 23, 1973, submit to the Administrator for approval a proposed compliance schedule that demonstrates compliance with § 52.125(c) as expeditiously as practicable but not later than July 31, 1977. Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to § 52.126(b) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section may, no later than 120 days following the effective date of this paragraph, submit to the Administrator for approval a proposed compliance schedule that demonstrates compliance with § 52.126(b) as expeditiously as practicable but not later than July 31, 1975.

(i) The compliance schedule shall provide for periodic increments of progress toward compliance. The dates for achievement of such increments shall be specified. Increments of progress shall include, but not be limited to: Submittal of the final control plan to the Administrator; letting of necessary contracts for construction or process change, or issuance of orders for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control equipment or process modification; completion of onsite construction or installation of emission control equipment or process modification; and final compliance.

(ii) Any compliance schedule for the stationary source subject to § 52.125(c) which extends beyond July 31, 1975, shall apply any reasonable interim measures of control designed to reduce the impact of such source on public health.

(3) Any owner or operator who submits a compliance schedule pursuant to this paragraph shall, within 5 days after the deadline for each increment of progress, certify to the Administrator whether or not the required increment of the approved compliance schedule has been met.
