
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 503 - STANDARDS FOR THE USE OR DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE SLUDGE
##### Subpart E - Incineration
###### § 503.43 Pollutant limits.
####### Pollutant limit-arsenic, cadmium, chromium, and nickel.

(d)(1) The average daily concentration for arsenic, cadmium, chromium, and nickel in sewage sludge fed to a sewage sludge incinerator each shall not exceed the concentration calculated using equation (5).

(2) The risk specific concentrations for arsenic, cadmium, and nickel used in equation (5) shall be obtained from Table 1 of § 503.43.

(3) The risk specific concentration for chromium used in equation (5) shall be obtained from Table 2 of § 503.43 or shall be calculated using equation (6).

(4) The dispersion factor (DF) in equation (5) shall be determined from an air dispersion model in accordance with § 503.43(e).

(i) When the sewage sludge incinerator stack height is equal to or less than 65 meters, the actual sewage sludge incinerator stack height shall be used in the air dispersion model to determine the dispersion factor (DF) for equation (5).

(ii) When the sewage sludge incinerator stack height is greater than 65 meters, the creditable stack height shall be determined in accordance with 40 CFR 51.100(ii) and the creditable stack height shall be used in the air dispersion model to determine the dispersion factor (DF) for equation (5).

(5) The control efficiency (CE) for equation (5) shall be determined from a performance test of the sewage sludge incinerator in accordance with § 503.43(e).
