
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 503 - STANDARDS FOR THE USE OR DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE SLUDGE
##### Subpart E - Incineration
###### ยง 503.47 Recordkeeping.

(a) The person who fires sewage sludge in a sewage sludge incinerator shall develop the information in ยง 503.47(b) through ยง 503.47(n) and shall retain that information for five years.

(b) The concentration of lead, arsenic, cadmium, chromium, and nickel in the sewage sludge fed to the sewage sludge incinerator.

(c) The total hydrocarbons concentrations in the exit gas from the sewage sludge incinerator stack.

(d) Information that indicates the requirements in the National Emission Standard for beryllium in subpart C of 40 CFR part 61 are met.

(e) Information that indicates the requirements in the National Emission Standard for mercury in subpart E of 40 CFR part 61 are met.

(f) The operating combustion temperatures for the sewage sludge incinerator.

(g) Values for the air pollution control device operating parameters.

(h) The oxygen concentration and information used to measure moisture content in the exit gas from the sewage sludge incinerator stack.

(i) The sewage sludge feed rate.

(j) The stack height for the sewage sludge incinerator.

(k) The dispersion factor for the site where the sewage sludge incinerator is located.

(l) The control efficiency for lead, arsenic, cadmium, chromium, and nickel for each sewage sludge incinerator.

(m) The risk specific concentration for chromium calculated using equation (6), if applicable.

(n) A calibration and maintenance log for the instruments used to measure the total hydrocarbons concentration and oxygen concentration in the exit gas from the sewage sludge incinerator stack, the information needed to determine moisture content in the exit gas, and the combustion temperatures.
