
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 503 - STANDARDS FOR THE USE OR DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE SLUDGE
##### Subpart E - Incineration
###### § 503.43 Pollutant limits.
####### Air dispersion modeling and performance testing.

(e)(1) The air dispersion model used to determine the dispersion factor in § 503.43 (c)(2) and (d)(4) shall be appropriate for the geographical, physical, and population characteristics at the sewage sludge incinerator site. The performance test used to determine the control efficiencies in § 503.43 (c)(3) and (d)(5) shall be appropriate for the type of sewage sludge incinerator.

(2) For air dispersion modeling initiated after September 3, 1999, the modeling results shall be submitted to the permitting authority 30 days after completion of the modeling. In addition to the modeling results, the submission shall include a description of the air dispersion model and the values used for the model parameters.

(3) The following procedures, at a minimum, shall apply in conducting performance tests to determine the control efficiencies in § 503.43(c)(3) and (d)(5) after September 3, 1999:

(i) The performance test shall be conducted under representative sewage sludge incinerator conditions at the highest expected sewage sludge feed rate within the design capacity of the sewage sludge incinerator.

(ii) The permitting authority shall be notified at least 30 days prior to any performance test so the permitting authority may have the opportunity to observe the test. The notice shall include a test protocol with incinerator operating conditions and a list of test methods to be used.

(iii) Each performance test shall consist of three separate runs using the applicable test method. The control efficiency for a pollutant shall be the arithmetic mean of the control efficiencies for the pollutant from the three runs.

(4) The pollutant limits in § 503.43 (c) and (d) of this section shall be submitted to the permitting authority no later than 30 days after completion of the air dispersion modeling and performance test.

(5) Significant changes in geographic or physical characteristics at the incinerator site or in incinerator operating conditions require new air dispersion modeling or performance testing to determine a new dispersion factor or a new control efficiency that will be used to calculate revised pollutant limits.
