
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter O - Sewage Sludge
#### PART 503 - STANDARDS FOR THE USE OR DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE SLUDGE
##### Subpart E - Incineration
###### ยง 503.45 Management practices.

(a)(1) An instrument that continuously measures and records the total hydrocarbons concentration in the sewage sludge incinerator stack exit gas shall be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained for a sewage sludge incinerator.

(2) The total hydrocarbons instrument shall employ a flame ionization detector; shall have a heated sampling line maintained at a temperature of 150 degrees Celsius or higher at all times; and shall be calibrated at least once every 24-hour operating period using propane.

(b) An instrument that continuously measures and records the oxygen concentration in the sewage sludge incinerator stack exit gas shall be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained for a sewage sludge incinerator.

(c) An instrument that continuously measures and records information used to determine the moisture content in the sewage sludge incinerator stack exit gas shall be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained for a sewage sludge incinerator.

(d) An instrument that continuously measures and records combustion temperatures shall be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained for a sewage sludge incinerator.

(e) Operation of a sewage sludge incinerator shall not cause the operating combustion temperature for the sewage sludge incinerator to exceed the performance test combustion temperature by more than 20 percent.

(f) An air pollution control device shall be appropriate for the type of sewage sludge incinerator and the operating parameters for the air pollution control device shall be adequate to indicate proper performance of the air pollution control device. For sewage sludge incinerators subject to the requirements in subpart O of 40 CFR part 60, operation of the air pollution control device shall not violate the requirements for the air pollution control device in subpart O of 40 CFR part 60. For all other sewage sludge incinerators, operation of the air pollution control device shall not cause a significant exceedance of the average value for the air pollution control device operating parameters from the performance test required by ยง 503.43 (c)(3) and (d)(5).

(g) Sewage sludge shall not be fired in a sewage sludge incinerator if it is likely to adversely affect a threatened or endangered species listed under section 4 of the Endangered Species Act or its designated critical habitat.

(h) The instruments required in ยง 503.45(a)-(d) shall be appropriate for the type of sewage sludge incinerator.
