
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 600.005 Maintenance of records and rights of entry.
####### Keeping records.

(3)The manufacturer shall retain all records required under this part for five years after the end of the model year to which they relate. Records may be retained as hard copy or some alternative storage medium, provided that in every case all the information contained in hard copy shall be retained.

(b)(1) Any manufacturer who has supplied fuel economy data to meet the requirements of this part shall admit any EPA Enforcement Officer during operating hours upon presentation of credentials at any of the following:

(i) Any facility where any fuel economy tests from which data are submitted or any procedures or activities connected with these tests are performed.

(ii) Any facility where any new motor vehicle which is being, was, or is to be tested is present.

(iii) Any facility where any construction process used in the modification or buildup of a vehicle into a fuel economy data vehicle is taking place or has taken place.

(iv) Any facility where any record or other document relating to any of the above is located.

(2) Upon admission to any facility referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the manufacturer shall allow any EPA Enforcement Officer:

(i) To inspect and monitor any part or aspect of procedures, activities, and testing facilities, including, but not limited to, monitoring vehicle preconditioning; emission and fuel economy tests and mileage accumulation; maintenance; vehicle soak and storage procedures; and to verify correlation of calibration of test equipment;

(ii) To inspect and make copies of any required records, designs, or other documents; and

(iii) To inspect and photograph any part or aspect of any fuel economy vehicle and any components to be used in the construction thereof.

(3) Any EPA Enforcement Officer will be furnished, by those in charge of facility being inspected, with such reasonable assistance as may be required to help discharge any function listed in this paragraph (b). Each manufacturer is required to have those in charge of the facility furnish such reasonable assistance without charge to EPA whether or not the manufacturer controls the facility.

(4) The duty to admit any EPA Enforcement Officer shall be applicable whether or not the manufacturer owns or controls the facility in question and is applicable to both domestic and foreign manufacturers and facilities. An EPA Enforcement Officer will not attempt to make any inspections which the officer has been informed are in contravention of any law. However, if local law makes it impossible for the EPA Enforcement Officer to verify or to ensure the accuracy of data generated at a facility such that no informed judgment can properly be made as to the accuracy or reliability of data generated by or obtained for the facility, then a vehicle or data from that vehicle shall not be accepted for use in subpart C or F of this part (unless the Administrator is otherwise convinced of the accuracy and reliability of such data).

(5) For purposes of this paragraph (b):

(i) "Presentation of credentials" means display of the document designating a person as an EPA Enforcement Officer.

(ii) Where vehicle, component, or engine storage areas or facilities are concerned, "operating hours" shall mean all times during which personnel other than custodial personnel are at work in the vicinity of the area or facility and have access to it.

(iii) For facilities or areas other than those covered by paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, the term, "operating hours" will mean all times during which an assembly line is in operation or all times during which testing, maintenance, mileage accumulation, production or compilation of records, or any other procedure or activity related to fuel economy testing, or to vehicle manufacturer or assembly, is being carried out in a facility.

(iv) "Reasonable assistance" means providing timely and unobstructed access to and opportunity for the copying of any record, book, paper, or document required to be maintained under this section and providing timely and unobstructed access to any motor vehicle, testing facility, or testing equipment.

(v) Any entry without 24 hours prior written or oral notification to the affected manufacturer shall be authorized in writing by the Assistant Administrator for Enforcement.
