
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 600.010 Vehicle test requirements and minimum data requirements.

(a) Unless otherwise exempted from specific emission compliance requirements, for each certification vehicle defined in this part, and for each vehicle tested according to the emission test procedures in part 86 of this chapter for addition of a model after certification or approval of a running change (§ 86.1842 of this chapter, as applicable):

(1) The manufacturer shall generate FTP fuel economy data by testing according to the applicable procedures.

(2) The manufacturer shall generate highway fuel economy data by:

(i) Testing according to applicable procedures, or

(ii) Using an analytical technique, as described in § 600.006(e).

(3) The manufacturer shall generate US06 fuel economy data by testing according to the applicable procedures. Alternate fueled vehicles or dual fueled vehicles operating on alternate fuel may optionally generate this data using the alternate fuel.

(4) The manufacturer shall generate SC03 fuel economy data by testing according to the applicable procedures. Alternate fueled vehicles or dual fueled vehicles operating on alternate fuel may optionally generate this data using the alternate fuel.

(5) The manufacturer shall generate cold temperature FTP fuel economy data by testing according to the applicable procedures. Alternate fueled vehicles or dual fueled vehicles operating on alternate fuel may optionally generate this data using the alternate fuel.

(6) The data generated in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section, shall be submitted to the Administrator in combination with other data for the vehicle required to be submitted in part 86 of this chapter.

(b) For each fuel economy data vehicle:

(1) The manufacturer shall generate FTP and HFET fuel economy data by:

(i) Testing according to applicable procedures, or

(ii) Use of an analytical technique as described in § 600.006(e), in addition to testing (e.g., city fuel economy data by testing, highway fuel economy data by analytical technique).

(2) The data generated shall be submitted to the Administrator according to the procedures in § 600.006.
