
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Fuel Economy and Carbon-Related Exhaust Emission Test Procedures
###### ยง 600.111-08 Test procedures.
####### Special test procedures.
############# ยง 600.113-12 Fuel economy, COemissions, and carbon-related exhaust emission calculations for FTP, HFET, US06, SC03 and cold temperature FTP tests.

The Administrator will use the calculation procedure set forth in this paragraph for all official EPA testing of vehicles fueled with gasoline, diesel, alcohol-based or natural gas fuel. The calculations of the weighted fuel economy and carbon-related exhaust emission values require input of the weighted grams/mile values for total hydrocarbons (HC), carbon monoxide (CO), and carbon dioxide (CO); and, additionally for methanol-fueled automobiles, methanol (CHOH) and formaldehyde (HCHO); and, additionally for ethanol-fueled automobiles, methanol (CHOH), ethanol (CHOH), acetaldehyde (CHO), and formaldehyde (HCHO); and additionally for natural gas-fueled vehicles, non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC) and methane (CH). For manufacturers selecting the fleet averaging option for NO and CHas allowed under ยง 86.1818 of this chapter the calculations of the carbon-related exhaust emissions require the input of grams/mile values for nitrous oxide (NO) and methane (CH). Emissions shall be determined for the FTP, HFET, US06, SC03 and cold temperature FTP tests. Additionally, the specific gravity, carbon weight fraction and net heating value of the test fuel must be determined. The FTP, HFET, US06, SC03 and cold temperature FTP fuel economy and carbon-related exhaust emission values shall be calculated as specified in this section. An example fuel economy calculation appears in Appendix II of this part.

(a) Calculate the FTP fuel economy as follows:

(1) Calculate the weighted grams/mile values for the FTP test for CO, HC, and CO, and where applicable, CHOH, CHOH, CHO, HCHO, NMHC, NO, and CHas specified in 40 CFR 1066.605. Measure and record the test fuel's properties as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(2) Calculate separately the grams/mile values for the cold transient phase, stabilized phase and hot transient phase of the FTP test. For vehicles with more than one source of propulsion energy, one of which is a rechargeable energy storage system, or vehicles with special features that the Administrator determines may have a rechargeable energy source, whose charge can vary during the test, calculate separately the grams/mile values for the cold transient phase, stabilized phase, hot transient phase and hot stabilized phase of the FTP test.

(b) Calculate the HFET fuel economy as follows:

(1) Calculate the mass values for the highway fuel economy test for HC, CO, and CO, and where applicable, CHOH, CHOH, CHO, HCHO, NMHC, NO, and CHas specified in 40 CFR 1066.605. Measure and record the test fuel's properties as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(2) Calculate the grams/mile values for the highway fuel economy test for HC, CO, and CO, and where applicable CHOH, CHOH, CHO, HCHO, NMHC, NO, and CHby dividing the mass values obtained in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, by the actual driving distance, measured in miles, as specified in 40 CFR 1066.840.

(c) Calculate the cold temperature FTP fuel economy as follows:

(1) Calculate the weighted grams/mile values for the cold temperature FTP test for HC, CO, and CO, and where applicable, CHOH, CHOH, CHO, HCHO, NMHC, NO, and CHas specified in 40 CFR 1066.605.

(2) Calculate separately the grams/mile values for the cold transient phase, stabilized phase and hot transient phase of the cold temperature FTP test as specified in 40 CFR 1066.605.

(3) Measure and record the test fuel's properties as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(d) Calculate the US06 fuel economy as follows:

(1) Calculate the total grams/mile values for the US06 test for HC, CO, and CO, and where applicable, CHOH, CHOH, CHO, HCHO, NMHC, NO, and CHas specified in 40 CFR 1066.605.
