
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Fuel Economy and Carbon-Related Exhaust Emission Test Procedures
###### § 600.111-08 Test procedures.
####### Special test procedures.
######## e.g.,

(2) Calculate separately the grams/mile values for HC, CO, and CO, and where applicable, CHOH, CHOH, CHO, HCHO, NMHC, NO, and CH, for both the US06 City phase and the US06 Highway phase of the US06 test as specified in 40 CFR 1066.605 and 1066.831. In lieu of directly measuring the emissions of the separate city and highway phases of the US06 test according to the provisions of 40 CFR 1066.831, the manufacturer may optionally, with the advance approval of the Administrator and using good engineering judgment, analytically determine the grams/mile values for the city and highway phases of the US06 test. To analytically determine US06 City and US06 Highway phase emission results, the manufacturer shall multiply the US06 total grams/mile values determined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section by the estimated proportion of fuel use for the city and highway phases relative to the total US06 fuel use. The manufacturer may estimate the proportion of fuel use for the US06 City and US06 Highway phases by using modal CO, HC, and CO emissions data, or by using appropriate OBD data (fuel flow rate in grams of fuel per second), or another method approved by the Administrator.

(3) Measure and record the test fuel's properties as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(e) Calculate the SC03 fuel economy as follows:

(1) Calculate the grams/mile values for the SC03 test for HC, CO, and CO, and where applicable, CHOH, CHOH, CHO, HCHO, NMHC, NO, and CHas specified in 40 CFR 1066.605.

(2) Measure and record the test fuel's properties as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(f) Analyze and determine fuel properties as follows:

(1) Gasoline test fuel properties shall be determined by analysis of a fuel sample taken from the fuel supply. A sample shall be taken after each addition of fresh fuel to the fuel supply. Additionally, the fuel shall be resampled once a month to account for any fuel property changes during storage. Less frequent resampling may be permitted if EPA concludes, on the basis of manufacturer-supplied data, that the properties of test fuel in the manufacturer's storage facility will remain stable for a period longer than one month. The fuel samples shall be analyzed to determine the following fuel properties:

(i) Specific gravity measured using ASTM D 1298 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011).

(ii) Carbon weight fraction measured using ASTM D 3343 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011).

(iii) Net heating value (Btu/lb) determined using ASTM D 3338/D 3338M (incorporated by reference in § 600.011).

(2) Methanol test fuel shall be analyzed to determine the following fuel properties:

(i) Specific gravity using ASTM D 1298 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011). You may determine specific gravity for the blend, or you may determine specific gravity for the gasoline and methanol fuel components separately before combining the results using the following equation:

(ii)(A) Carbon weight fraction using the following equation:

(B) Upon the approval of the Administrator, other procedures to measure the carbon weight fraction of the fuel blend may be used if the manufacturer can show that the procedures are superior to or equally as accurate as those specified in this paragraph (f)(2)(ii).

(3) Natural gas test fuel shall be analyzed to determine the following fuel properties:

(i) Fuel composition measured using ASTM D 1945 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011).

(ii) Specific gravity measured as based on fuel composition per ASTM D 1945 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011).

(iii) Carbon weight fraction, based on the carbon contained only in the hydrocarbon constituents of the fuel. This equals the weight of carbon in the hydrocarbon constituents divided by the total weight of fuel.
