
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Fuel Economy and Carbon-Related Exhaust Emission Test Procedures
###### § 600.116-12 Special procedures related to electric vehicles and hybrid electric vehicles.

(a) Determine fuel economy values for electric vehicles as specified in §§ 600.210 and 600.311 using the procedures of SAE J1634 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011). Use the procedures of SAE J1634, Section 8, with the following clarifications and modifications for using this and other sections of SAE J1634:

(1) Vehicles that cannot complete the Multi-Cycle Range and Energy Consumption Test (MCT) because they are unable travel the distance required to complete the test with a fully charged battery, or they are unable to achieve the maximum speed on either the UDDS or HFEDS (Highway Fuel Economy Drive Cycle also known as the HFET) cycle should seek Administrator approval to use the procedures outlined in SAE J1634 Section 7 Single Cycle Range and Energy Consumption Test (SCT).

(2) The MCT includes the following key-on soak times and key-off soak periods:

(i) As noted in SAE J1634 Section 8.3.4, a 15 second key-on pause is required between UDDSand HFEDS, and UDDSand HFEDS.

(ii) As noted in SAE J1634 Section 8.3.4, a 10-minute key-off soak period is required between HFEDSand UDDS, and HFEDSand UDDS.

(iii) A key-off soak period up to 30 minutes may be inserted between UDDSand the first phase of the mid-test constant speed cycle, between UDDSand the first phase of the end-of-test constant speed cycle, and between the end of the mid-test constant speed cycle and UDDS. Start the next test segment immediately if there is no key-off soak between test segments.

(iv) If multiple phases are required during either the mid-test constant speed cycle or the end-of-test constant speed cycle there must be a 5-minute to 30-minute key-off soak period between each constant speed phase as noted in SAE J1634 Section 6.6.

(3) As noted in SAE J1634 Section 8.3.4, during all `key-off' soak periods, the key or power switch must be in the "off" position, the hood must be closed, the test cell fan(s) must be off, and the brake pedal not depressed. For vehicles which do not have a key or power switch the vehicle must be placed in the `mode' the manufacturer recommends when the vehicle is to be parked and the occupants exit the vehicle.

(4) Manufacturers may determine the mid-test constant speed cycle distance (d) using their own methodology and good engineering judgment. Otherwise, either Method 1 or Method 2 described in Appendix A of SAE J1634 may be used to estimate the mid-test constant speed cycle distance (d). The mid-test constant speed cycle distance calculation needs to be performed prior to beginning the test and should not use data from the test being performed. If Method 2 is used, multiply the result determined by the Method 2 equation by 0.8 to determine the mid-test constant speed cycle distance (d).

(5) Divide the mid-test constant speed cycle distance (d) by 65 mph to determine the total time required for the mid-test constant speed cycle. If the time required is one hour or less, the mid-test constant speed cycle can be performed with no key-off soak periods. If the time required is greater than one hour, the mid-test constant speed cycle must be separated into phases such that no phase exceeds more than one hour. At the conclusion of each mid-test constant speed phase, except at the conclusion of the mid-test constant speed cycle, perform a 5-minute to 30-minute key-off soak. A key-off soak period up to 30 minutes may be inserted between the end of the mid-test constant speed cycle and UDDS.

(6) Using good engineering judgment determine the end-of-test constant speed cycle distance so that it does not exceed 20% of the total distance driven during the MCT as described in SAE J1634 Section 8.3.3.

(7) Divide the end-of-test constant speed cycle distance (d) by 65 mph to determine the total time required for the end-of-test constant speed cycle. If the time required is one-hour or less the end-of-test constant speed cycle can be performed with no key-off soak periods. If the time required is greater than one-hour the end-of-test constant speed cycle must be separated into phases such that no phase exceeds more than one-hour. At the conclusion of each end-of-test constant speed phase, perform a 5-minute to 30-minute key-off soak.

(8) SAE J1634 Section 3.13 defines useable battery energy (UBE) as the total DC discharge energy (Edc), measured in DC watt-hours for a full discharge test. The total DC discharge energy is the sum of all measured phases of a test inclusive of all drive cycle types. As key-off soak periods are not considered part of the test phase, the discharge energy that occurs during the key-off soak periods is not included in the useable battery energy.

(9) Recharging the vehicle's battery must start within three hours after the end of testing.

(10) At the request of a manufacturer, the Administrator may approve the use of an earlier version of SAE J1634 when a manufacturer is carrying over data for vehicles tested using a prior version of SAE J1634.

(11) All label values related to fuel economy, energy consumption, and range must be based on 5-cycle testing or on values adjusted to be equivalent to 5-cycle results. Prior to performing testing to generate a 5-cycle adjustment factor, manufacturers must request Administrator approval to use SAE J1634 Appendices B and C for determining a 5-cycle adjustment factor with the following modifications, clarifications, and attestations:

(i) Before model year 2025, prior to performing the 20 &#xB0;F charge-depleting UDDS, the vehicle must soak for a minimum of 12 hours and a maximum of 36 hours at a temperature of 20 &#xB0;F. Prior to beginning the 12 to 36 hour cold soak at 20 &#xB0;F the vehicle must be fully charged, the charging can take place at test laboratory ambient temperatures (68 to 86 &#xB0;F) or at 20 &#xB0;F. During the 12 to 36 hour cold soak period the vehicle may not be connected to a charger nor is the vehicle cabin or battery to be preconditioned during the 20 &#xB0;F soak period.

(ii) Beginning with model year 2025, the 20 &#xB0;F UDDS charge-depleting UDDS test will be replaced with a 20 &#xB0;F UDDS test consisting of two UDDS cycles performed with a 10-minute key-off soak between the two UDDS cycles. The data from the two UDDS cycles will be used to calculate the five-cycle adjustment factor, instead of using the results from the entire charge-depleting data set. Manufacturers that have submitted and used the average data from 20 &#xB0;F charge-depleting UDDS data sets will be required to revise their 5-cycle adjustment factor calculation and re-label vehicles using the data from the first two UDDS cycles only. Manufacturers, at their discretion, would also be allowed to re-run the 20 &#xB0;F UDDS test with the battery charged to a state-of-charge (SoC) determined by the manufacturer. The battery does not need to be at 100% SoC before the 20 &#xB0;F cold soak.

(iii) Manufacturers must submit a written attestation to the Administrator at the completion of testing with the following information:

(A) A statement noting the SoC level of the rechargeable energy storage system (RESS) prior to beginning the 20 &#xB0;F cold soak for testing performed beginning with model year 2025.

(B) A statement confirming the vehicle was not charged or preconditioned during the 12 to 36 hour 20 &#xB0;F soak period before starting the 20 &#xB0;F UDDS cycle.

(C) A summary of all the 5-cycle test results and the calculations used to generate the 5-cycle adjustment factor, including all the 20 &#xB0;F UDDS cycles, the distance travelled during each UDDS and the measured DC discharge energy during each UDDS phase. Beginning in model year 2025, the 20 &#xB0;F UDDS test results will consist of only two UDDS cycles.
