
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Calculating Fuel Economy and Carbon-Related Exhaust Emission Values
######## i.e.,

(ii) The subconfigurations included in the new base levels are not included in any other base level which differs only by basic engine (they are not included in the calculation of the original base level fuel economy values); and

(iii) All subconfigurations within the new base level are represented by test data in accordance with ยง 600.010(c)(i)(ii).

(3) The manufacturer shall supply total model year sales projections for each car line/vehicle subconfiguration combination.

(i) Sales projections must be supplied separately for each car line-vehicle subconfiguration intended for sale in California and each car line/vehicle subconfiguration intended for sale in the rest of the states if required by the Administrator under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(ii) Manufacturers shall update sales projections at the time any model type value is calculated for a label value.

(iii) The provisions of this paragraph (a)(3) may be satisfied by providing an amended application for certification, as described in ยง 86.1844 of this chapter.

(4) 5-cycle vehicle configuration fuel economy and COemission values, as determined in ยง 600.207-12(a), (b), or (c), as applicable, are grouped according to base level.

(i) If only one vehicle configuration within a base level has been tested, the fuel economy and COemission values from that vehicle configuration constitute the fuel economy and COemission values for that base level.

(ii) If more than one vehicle configuration within a base level has been tested, the vehicle configuration fuel economy values are harmonically averaged in proportion to the respective sales fraction (rounded to the nearest 0.0001) of each vehicle configuration and the resultant fuel economy value rounded to the nearest 0.0001 mile per gallon.

(iii) If more than one vehicle configuration within a base level has been tested, the vehicle configuration COemission values are arithmetically averaged in proportion to the respective sales fraction (rounded to the nearest 0.0001) of each vehicle configuration and the resultant COemission value rounded to the nearest 0.1 gram per mile.

(5) The procedure specified in ยง 600.209-12(a) will be repeated for each base level, thus establishing city and highway fuel economy and COemission values for each base level.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) For alcohol dual fuel automobiles and natural gas dual fuel automobiles, the procedures of paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section shall be used to calculate two separate sets of city, highway, and combined fuel economy and COemission values for each base level.

(i) Calculate the city and highway fuel economy and COemission values from the tests performed using gasoline or diesel test fuel.

(ii) If 5-cycle testing was performed on the alcohol or natural gas test fuel, calculate the city and highway fuel economy and COemission values from the tests performed using alcohol or natural gas test fuel.
