
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Fuel Economy and Carbon-Related Exhaust Emission Test Procedures
###### ยง 600.116-12 Special procedures related to electric vehicles and hybrid electric vehicles.
####### E,P

(ii) The total maximum braking energy () that could theoretically be recovered is equal to the absolute value of the sum of all the values ofdetermined in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section, divided by 36000 (to convert 10 Hz data to hours) and rounded to the nearest 0.01 kilowatt-hours.

(ii) The total maximum braking energy (E) that could theoretically be recovered is equal to the absolute value of the sum of all the values of Pdetermined in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section, divided by 36000 (to convert 10 Hz data to hours) and rounded to the nearest 0.01 kilowatt hours.

(2) Calculate the actual amount of energy recovered (E) by a hybrid electric vehicle when tested on the FTP according to the provisions of this part, as follows:

(i) Measure the electrical current in Amps to and from the hybrid electric vehicle battery during the FTP. Measurements should be made directly upstream of the battery at a 10 Hz sampling rate.

(ii) At each sampling point where current is flowing into the battery, calculate the energy flowing into the battery, in Watt-hours, as follows:

(iii) The total energy recovered (E) is the absolute value of the sum of all values of Ethat represent current flowing into the battery, divided by 1000 (to convert Watt-hours to kilowatt-hours).

(3) The percent of braking energy recovered by a hybrid system relative to the total available energy is determined by the following equation, rounded to the nearest one percent:

(4)(i) Determination nominal voltage (V) using the following equation:

(ii) If the absolute value of the measured current to and from the battery during the measurement of either Vor Vexceeds three percent of the maximum absolute value of the current measured over the FTP, then that Vor Vvalue is not valid. If no valid voltage measurement can be made using this method, the manufacturer must develop an alternative method of determining nominal voltage. The alternative must be developed using good engineering judgment and is subject to EPA approval.
