
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Calculating Fuel Economy and Carbon-Related Exhaust Emission Values
######## General labels.

(a)Except as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, fuel economy and COemissions for general labels may be determined by one of two methods. The first is based on vehicle-specific model-type 5-cycle data as determined in ยง 600.209-12(b). This method is available for all vehicles and is required for vehicles that do not qualify for the second method as described in ยง 600.115 (other than electric vehicles). The second method, the derived 5-cycle method, determines fuel economy and COemissions values from the FTP and HFET tests using equations that are derived from vehicle-specific 5-cycle model type data, as determined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Manufacturers may voluntarily lower fuel economy (MPG) values and raise COvalues if they determine that the label values from any method are not representative of the in-use fuel economy and COemissions for that model type, but only if the manufacturer changes both the MPG values and the COvalue and revises any other affected label value accordingly for a model type (including but not limited to the fuel economy 1-10 rating, greenhouse gas 1-10 rating, annual fuel cost, 5-year fuel cost information). Similarly, for any electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, manufacturers may voluntarily lower the fuel economy (MPGe) and raise the energy consumption (kW-hr/100 mile) values if they determine that the label values are not representative of the in-use fuel economy, energy consumption, and COemissions for that model type, but only if the manufacturer changes both the MPGe and the energy consumption value and revises any other affected label value accordingly for a model type. Manufacturers may voluntarily lower the value for electric driving range if they determine that the label values are not representative of the in-use electric driving range.
