
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Calculating Fuel Economy and Carbon-Related Exhaust Emission Values
######## Calculating combined fuel economy, CO,emissions, and driving range.

(d)(1) If the criteria in § 600.115-11(a) are met for a model type, both the city and highway fuel economy and COemissions values must be determined using the vehicle-specific 5-cycle method. If the criteria in § 600.115-11(b) are met for a model type, the city fuel economy and COemissions values may be determined using either method, but the highway fuel economy and COemissions values must be determined using the vehicle-specific 5-cycle method (or modified 5-cycle method as allowed under § 600.114-12(b)(2)).

(2) If the criteria in § 600.115 are not met for a model type, the city and highway fuel economy and COemission label values must be determined by using the same method, either the derived 5-cycle or vehicle-specific 5-cycle.

(3) Manufacturers may use one of the following methods to determine 5-cycle values for fuel economy, COemissions, and driving range for electric vehicles:

(i) Generate 5-cycle data as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section using the procedures of SAE J1634 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011) with amendments and revisions as described in § 600.116-12(a).

(ii) Multiply 2-cycle fuel economy values and driving range by 0.7 and divide 2-cycle COemission values by 0.7.

(iii) Manufacturers may ask the Administrator to approve adjustment factors for deriving 5-cycle fuel economy results from 2-cycle test data based on operating data from their in-use vehicles. Such data should be collected from multiple vehicles with different drivers over a range of representative driving routes and conditions. The Administrator may approve such an adjustment factor for any of the manufacturer's vehicle models that are properly represented by the collected data.
