
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### ยง 600.302-12 Fuel economy label - general provisions.
####### Border.

(b)Create a continuous black border to outline the label and separate the three information fields. Include the following information in the top and bottom portions of the border:

(1) In the left portion of the upper border, include "EPA" and "DOT" with a horizontal line in between ("EPA divided by DOT").

(2) Immediately to the right of the Agency names, include the heading "Fuel Economy and Environment".

(3) Identify the vehicle's fuel type on the right-most portion of the upper border in a blue-colored field as follows:

(i) For vehicles designed to operate on a single fuel, identify the appropriate fuel. For example, identify the vehicle as "Gasoline Vehicle", "Diesel Vehicle", "Compressed Natural Gas Vehicle", "Hydrogen Fuel Cell Vehicle", etc. This includes hybrid electric vehicles that do not have plug-in capability. Include a logo corresponding to the fuel to the left of this designation as follows:

(A) For gasoline, include a fuel pump logo.

(B) For diesel fuel, include a fuel pump logo with a "D" inscribed in the base of the fuel pump.

(C) For natural gas, include the established CNG logo.

(D) For hydrogen fuel cells, include the expression "H".

(ii) Identify flexible-fuel vehicles and dual-fuel vehicles as "Flexible-Fuel Vehicle Gasoline-Ethanol (E85)", "Flexible-Fuel Vehicle Diesel-Natural Gas", etc. Include a fuel pump logo or a combination of logos to the left of this designation as appropriate. For example, for vehicles that operate on gasoline or ethanol, include a fuel pump logo and the designation "E85".

(iii) Identify plug-in hybrid electric vehicles as "Plug-In Hybrid Vehicle Electricity-Gasoline" or "Plug-In Hybrid Vehicle Electricity-Diesel". Include a fuel pump logo as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section and an electric plug logo to the left of this designation.

(iv) Identify electric vehicles as "Electric Vehicle". Include an electric plug logo to the left of this designation.
