
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### § 600.302-12 Fuel economy label - general provisions.
####### Performance ratings.

(e)Include the following information in the field in the lower left portion of the label:

(1) The heading, "Fuel Economy and Greenhouse Gas Rating (tailpipe only)" in the top left corner of the field.

(2) A slider bar below the heading in the left portion of the field to characterize the vehicle's fuel economy and greenhouse gas ratings, as determined in § 600.311. Position a box with a downward-pointing wedge above the slider bar positioned to show where that vehicle's fuel economy rating falls relative to the total range; include the vehicle's fuel economy rating inside the box. If the greenhouse gas rating from § 600.311 is different than the fuel economy rating, position a second box with an upward-pointing wedge below the slider bar positioned to show where that vehicle's greenhouse gas rating falls relative to the total range; include the vehicle's greenhouse gas rating inside the box. Include the expression "CO" to the left of the box with the greenhouse gas rating and add the expression MPG to the left of the box with the fuel economy rating. Include the number 1 inside the border at the left end of the slider bar. Include the number 10 inside the border at the right end of the slider bar and add the term "Best" below the slider bar, directly under the number. EPA will periodically calculate and publish updated rating values as described in § 600.311. Add color to the slider bar such that it is blue at the left end of the range, white at the right end of the range, and shaded continuously across the range.

(3) The heading, "Smog Rating (tailpipe only)" in the top right corner of the field.

(4) Insert a slider bar in the right portion of the field to characterize the vehicle's level of emission control for ozone-related air pollutants relative to that of all vehicles. Position a box with a downward-pointing wedge above the slider bar positioned to show where that vehicle's emission rating falls relative to the total range. Include the vehicle's emission rating (as described in § 600.311) inside the box. Include the number 1 in the border at the left end of the slider bar; include the number 10 in the border at the right end of the slider bar and add the term "Best" below the slider bar, directly under the number. EPA will periodically calculate and publish updated range values as described in § 600.311. Add color to the slider bar such that it is blue at the left end of the range, white at the right end of the range, and shaded continuously across the range.
