
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### § 600.302-12 Fuel economy label - general provisions.
####### a,b,c,d,a, b, c,,d,

(4) Include the following statement in the upper left portion of the lower border: "Actual results will vary for many reasons, including driving conditions and how you drive and maintain your vehicle. The average new vehicle getsMPG and costs $to fuel over 5 years. Cost estimates are based onmiles per year at $per gallon. MPGe is miles per gasoline gallon equivalent. Vehicle emissions are a significant cause of climate change and smog." Forandinsert the appropriate values established by EPA, including consideration of the type of fuel that is required for the vehicle. See §§ 600.303 through 600.310 for alternate statements that apply for vehicles that use a fuel other than gasoline or diesel fuel.

(5) In the lower left portion of the lower border, include the Web site reference, "fueleconomy.gov", and the following statement: "Calculate personalized estimates and compare vehicles".

(6) Include a field in the right-most portion of the lower border to allow for accessing interactive information with mobile electronic devices. To do this, include an image of a QR code that will direct mobile electronic devices to an EPA-specified Web site with fuel economy information. Generate the QR code as specified in ISO/IEC 18004 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011). To the left of the QR code, include the vertically oriented caption "Smartphone QR Code".

(7) Along the lower edge of the lower border, to the left of the field with the QR Code, include the logos for EPA, the Department of Transportation, and the Department of Energy.
