
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### § 600.302-12 Fuel economy label - general provisions.
####### Fuel economy and cost values.

(c)Include the following elements in the field at the top of the label:

(1) The elements specified in this paragraph (c)(1) for vehicles that run on gasoline or diesel fuel with no plug-in capability. See §§ 600.304 through 600.310 for specifications that apply for other vehicles.

(i) The heading "Fuel Economy" near the top left corner of the field.

(ii) The combined fuel economy value as determined in § 600.311 below the heading. Include the expression "combined city/hwy" below this number.

(iii) The fuel pump logo to the left of the combined fuel economy value. For diesel fuel, include a fuel pump logo with a "D" inscribed in the base of the fuel pump.

(iv) The units identifier and specific fuel economy values to the right of the combined fuel economy rating as follows:

(A) Include the term "MPG" in the upper portion of the designated space.

(B) Include the city fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower left portion of the designated space. Include the expression "city" below this number.

(C) Include the highway fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower right portion of the designated space. Include the expression "highway" below this number.

(v) The fuel consumption rate determined in § 600.311, below the combined fuel economy value, followed by the expression "gallons per 100 miles".
