
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### § 600.304-12 Fuel economy label - special requirements for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.
####### a,b,c,d,a, b,,c,,d,

(a) Include the following statement instead of the statement specified in § 600.302-12(b)(4): "Actual results will vary for many reasons, including driving conditions and how you drive and maintain your vehicle. The average new vehicle getsMPG and costs $to fuel over 5 years. Cost estimates are based onmiles per year at $per kilogram of hydrogen. Vehicle emissions are a significant cause of global warming and smog." Forandinsert the appropriate values established by EPA.

(b) Include the following elements instead of the information identified in § 600.302-12(c)(1):

(1) The heading "Fuel Economy" near the top left corner of the field.

(2) The combined fuel economy value as determined in § 600.311 below the heading. Include the expression "combined city/hwy" below this number.

(3) The logo specified in § 600.302-12(b)(3)(ii) to the left of the combined fuel economy value.

(4) The units identifier and specific fuel economy values to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:

(i) Include the term "MPGe" in the upper portion of the designated space.

(ii) Include the city fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower left portion of the designated space. Include the expression "city" below this number.

(iii) Include the highway fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower right portion of the designated space. Include the expression "highway" below this number.

(5) The fuel consumption rate determined in § 600.311, to the right of the fuel economy information. Include the expression "kg Hper 100 miles" below the numerical value.
