
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### § 600.308-12 Fuel economy label format requirements - plug-in hybrid electric vehicles.
####### a,b,c,d,e,a, b,,c, d,,e,

(a) Include the following statement instead of the statement specified in § 600.302-12(b)(4): "Actual results will vary for many reasons, including driving conditions and how you drive and maintain your vehicle. The average new vehicle getsMPG and costs $to fuel over 5 years. Cost estimates are based onmiles per year at $per gallon and $per kW-hr. Vehicle emissions are a significant cause of global warming and smog." Forandinsert the appropriate values established by EPA. For qualifying vehicles, include the following additional sentence: "This is a dual fueled automobile." See the definition of "dual fueled automobile in § 600.002.

(b) Include the following elements instead of the information identified in § 600.302-12(c)(1):

(1) The heading "Fuel Economy" near the top left corner of the field. Include the statement specified in § 600.312-12(c)(2) to the right of the heading.

(2) An outlined box below the heading with the following information:

(i) The sub-heading "Electricity" if the vehicle's engine starts only after the battery is fully discharged, or "Electricity + Gasoline" if the vehicle uses combined power from the battery and the engine before the battery is fully discharged.
