
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### § 600.311-12 Determination of values for fuel economy labels.
####### Driving range.

(j)Determine the driving range for certain vehicles as follows:

(1) For vehicles operating on nonpressurized liquid fuels, determine the vehicle's driving range in miles by multiplying the combined fuel economy described in paragraph (a) of this section by the vehicle's usable fuel storage capacity, rounded to the nearest whole number.

(2) For electric vehicles, determine the vehicle's overall driving range as described in Section 8 of SAE J1634 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011), with amendments and revisions as described in § 600.116. Determine separate range values for FTP-based city and HFET-based highway driving. Adjust these values to represent 5-cycle values as described in § 600.210-12(d)(3), then combine them arithmetically by averaging the two values, weighted 0.55 and 0.45, respectively, and rounding to the nearest whole number.

(3) For natural gas vehicles, determine the vehicle's driving range in miles by multiplying the combined fuel economy described in paragraph (a) of this section by the vehicle's usable fuel storage capacity (expressed in gasoline gallon equivalents), rounded to the nearest whole number.

(4) For plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, determine the adjusted charge-depleting (Rcda) driving range, the adjusted all electric driving range (if applicable), and overall adjusted driving range as described in SAE J1711 (incorporated by reference in § 600.011), as described in § 600.116, as follows:

(i) Determine the vehicle's Actual Charge-Depleting Range, R, separately for FTP-based city and HFET-based highway driving. Adjust these values to represent 5-cycle values as described in 600.115-11, then combine them arithmetically by averaging the two values, weighted 0.55 and 0.45, respectively, and rounding to the nearest whole number. Precondition the vehicle as needed to minimize engine operation for consuming stored fuel vapors in evaporative canisters; for example, you may purge the evaporative canister or time a refueling event to avoid engine starting related to purging the canister. For vehicles that use combined power from the battery and the engine before the battery is fully discharged, also use this procedure to establish an all electric range by determining the distance the vehicle drives before the engine starts, rounded to the nearest mile. You may represent this as a range of values. We may approve adjustments to these procedures if they are necessary to properly characterize a vehicle's all electric range.

(ii) Use good engineering judgment to calculate the vehicle's operating distance before the fuel tank is empty when starting with a full fuel tank and a fully charged battery, consistent with the procedure and calculation specified in this paragraph (j), rounded to the nearest 10 miles.

(5) For hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, determine the vehicle's driving range in miles by multiplying the combined fuel economy described in paragraph (a) of this section by the vehicle's usable fuel storage capacity (expressed in kilograms of hydrogen), rounded to the nearest whole number.
