
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### ยง 600.312-08 Labeling, reporting, and recordkeeping; Administrator reviews.

(a)(1) The manufacturer shall determine label values (general and specific) using the procedures specified in subparts C and D of this part and submit the label values, and the data sufficient to calculate the label values, to the Administrator according to the timetable specified in ยง 600.313.

(2) Except under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the manufacturer is not required to obtain Administrator approval of label values prior to the introduction of vehicles for sale.

(3) The label values that the manufacturer calculates and submits under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall constitute the EPA fuel economy estimates unless the Administrator determines that they are not calculated according to the procedures specified in subparts C and D of this part.

(4) If required by the Administrator, the manufacturer shall obtain Administrator approval of label values prior to affixing labels to vehicles.

(5)(i) If at any time during the model year, any label values are determined not to be calculated according to the procedures specified in subparts C and D of this part, the Administrator shall notify the manufacturer in writing.

(ii) If the Administrator has sufficient information to enable calculation of the correct label values, this notification shall specify the correct label values which constitute the EPA Fuel Economy Estimates.

(iii) If additional information is required, the Administrator shall request such additional information and a recalculation of the label value by the manufacturer.

(6) If the Administrator determines revised label values under paragraph (a)(5) of this section are lower than the label values calculated by the manufacturer, the manufacturer shall affix the revised labels to all affected new vehicles which are unsold beginning no later than 15 calendar days after the date of notification by the Administrator.

(b)(1) The manufacturer is responsible for affixing vehicle labels that meet the format and content requirements of this subpart.

(2) The manufacturer shall retain for examination, at the Administrator's discretion, typical label formats representing all information required on the manufacturer's fuel economy labels. The information shall include the text of all required and voluntary information as well as the size and color of print and paper, spacing, and location of all printed information. Where the fuel economy label is incorporated with the Automobile Information Disclosure Act label, the above requirements pertain to those sections of the label concerning fuel economy labeling information.

(3) If the Administrator determines upon examination of record that the label format or content do not meet the requirements of this subpart, the Administrator may:

(i) Require the manufacturer to make specific changes in subsequent labels, and

(ii) Require such changes to be implemented on a reasonable timetable, but no sooner than 15 days from the date of notification to the manufacturer.
