
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### ยง 600.315-08 Classes of comparable automobiles.
####### Large station wagons.

(ix)Station wagons with interior volume index greater than or equal to 160 cubic feet.

(2) The Administrator will classify light trucks (nonpassenger automobiles) into the following classes: Small pickup trucks, standard pickup trucks, vans, minivans, and SUVs. Starting in the 2013 model year, SUVs will be divided between small sport utility vehicles and standard sport utility vehicles. Pickup trucks and SUVs are separated by car line on the basis of gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR). For a product line with more than one GVWR, establish the characteristic GVWR value for the product line by calculating the arithmetic average of all distinct GVWR values less than or equal to 8,500 pounds available for that product line. The Administrator may determine that specific light trucks should be most appropriately placed in a different class or in the special purpose vehicle class as provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, based on the features and characteristics of the specific vehicle, consumer information provided by the manufacturer, and other information available to consumers.

(i) Small pickup trucks. Pickup trucks with a GVWR below 6,000 pounds.

(ii) Standard pickup trucks. Pickup trucks with a GVWR at or above 6,000 pounds and at or below 8,500 pounds.

(iii) Vans.

(iv) Minivans.

(v) Small sport utility vehicles. Sport utility vehicles with a GVWR below 6,000 pounds.

(vi) Standard sport utility vehicles. Sport utility vehicles with a GVWR at or above 6,000 pounds and at or below 10,000 pounds.
