
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart D - Fuel Economy Labeling
###### ยง 600.315-08 Classes of comparable automobiles.
####### L205-Cargo length at belt-second.

(iii)(In inches obtained according to paragraph (c) of this section.)

(2) For hatchbacks, the cargo volume index V11 is calculated, in cubic feet, by dividing 1,728 into the product of three terms and rounding the quotient to the nearest 0.001 cubic foot:

(i) Average cargo length, which is the arithmetic average of:

(A) L210-Cargo length at second seatback height-hatchback. (In inches obtained according to paragraph (c) of this section);

(B) L211-Cargo length at floor-second-hatchback. (In inches obtained according to paragraph (c) of this section);

(ii) W4-Shoulder room-second. (In inches obtained according to paragraph (c) of this section);

(iii) H198-Second seatback to load floor height. (In inches obtained according to paragraph (c) of this section.)

(h) The following data must be submitted to the Administrator no later than the time of a general label request. Data shall be included for each body style in the car line covered by that general label.

(1) For all passenger automobiles:

(i) Dimensions H61, W3, L34 determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(ii) Front seat volume determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) Dimensions H63, W4, L51 (if applicable) determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(iv) Rear seat volume (if applicable) determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(v) The interior volume index determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section for:

(A) Each body style, and

(B) The car line.

(vi) The class of the car line as determined in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) For all passenger automobiles except station wagons and hatchbacks with more than one seat (e.g., with a second or third seat) equipped with seat belts as required by DOT safety regulations:

(i) The quantity and letter designation of the pieces of the standard luggage set installed in the vehicle in the determination of usable luggage capacity V1, and

(ii) The usable luggage capacity V1, determined in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) For station wagons with more than one seat (e.g., with a second or third seat) equipped with seat belts as required by DOT safety regulations:

(i) The dimensions H201, L205, and W201 determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, and

(ii) The cargo volume index V10 determined in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(4) For hatchbacks with more than one seat (e.g., with a second or third seat) equipped with seat belts as required by DOT safety regulations:

(i) The dimensions L210, L211, and H198 determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(ii) The cargo volume index V11 determined in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(5) For pickup trucks:

(i) All GVWR's of less than or equal to 8,500 pounds available in the car line.

(ii) The arithmetic average GVWR for the car line.
