
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart F - Procedures for Determining Manufacturer's Average Fuel Economy and Manufacturer's Average Carbon-Related Exhaust Emissions
###### § 600.512-12 Model year report.

(a) For each model year, the manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a report, known as the model year report, containing all information necessary for the calculation of the manufacturer's average fuel economy and all information necessary for the calculation of the manufacturer's average carbon-related exhaust emissions.

(1) The results of the manufacturer calculations and summary information of model type fuel economy values which are contained in the average fuel economy calculation shall also be submitted to the Secretary of the Department of Transportation, National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration.

(2) The results of the manufacturer calculations and summary information of model type carbon-related exhaust emission values which are contained in the average calculation shall be submitted to the Administrator.

(3) Separate reports shall be submitted for passenger automobiles and light trucks (as identified in § 600.510-12).

(b) The model year report shall be in writing, signed by the authorized representative of the manufacturer and shall be submitted no later than May 1 following the end of the model year. A manufacturer may request an extension for submitting the model year report if that is needed to provide all additional required data as determined in § 600.507-12. The request must clearly indicate the circumstances necessitating the extension.

(c) The model year report must include the following information:

(1)(i) All fuel economy data used in the FTP/HFET-based model type calculations under § 600.208, and subsequently required by the Administrator in accordance with § 600.507;

(ii) All carbon-related exhaust emission data used in the FTP/HFET-based model type calculations under § 600.208, and subsequently required by the Administrator in accordance with § 600.507;

(2) (i) All fuel economy data for certification vehicles and for vehicles tested for running changes approved under § 86.1842 of this chapter;

(ii) All carbon-related exhaust emission data for certification vehicles and for vehicles tested for running changes approved under § 86.1842 of this chapter;

(3) Any additional fuel economy and carbon-related exhaust emission data submitted by the manufacturer under § 600.509;

(4)(i) A fuel economy value for each model type of the manufacturer's product line calculated according to § 600.510-12(b)(2);

(ii) A carbon-related exhaust emission value for each model type of the manufacturer's product line calculated according to § 600.510-12(b)(2);

(5)(i) The manufacturer's average fuel economy value calculated according to § 600.510-12(c);

(ii) The manufacturer's average carbon-related exhaust emission value calculated according to § 600.510-12(j);

(6) A listing of both domestically and nondomestically produced car lines as determined in § 600.511 and the cost information upon which the determination was made; and

(7) The authenticity and accuracy of production data must be attested to by the corporation, and shall bear the signature of an officer (a corporate executive of at least the rank of vice-president) designated by the corporation. Such attestation shall constitute a representation by the manufacturer that the manufacturer has established reasonable, prudent procedures to ascertain and provide production data that are accurate and authentic in all material respects and that these procedures have been followed by employees of the manufacturer involved in the reporting process. The signature of the designated officer shall constitute a representation by the required attestation.

(8) [Reserved]

(9) The "required fuel economy level" pursuant to 49 CFR parts 531 or 533, as applicable. Model year reports shall include information in sufficient detail to verify the accuracy of the calculated required fuel economy level, including but is not limited to, production information for each unique footprint within each model type contained in the model year report and the formula used to calculate the required fuel economy level. Model year reports shall include a statement that the method of measuring vehicle track width, measuring vehicle wheelbase and calculating vehicle footprint is accurate and complies with applicable Department of Transportation requirements.

(10) The "required fuel economy level" pursuant to 49 CFR parts 531 or 533 as applicable, and the applicable fleet average COemission standards. Model year reports shall include information in sufficient detail to verify the accuracy of the calculated required fuel economy level and fleet average COemission standards, including but is not limited to, production information for each unique footprint within each model type contained in the model year report and the formula used to calculate the required fuel economy level and fleet average COemission standards. Model year reports shall include a statement that the method of measuring vehicle track width, measuring vehicle wheelbase and calculating vehicle footprint is accurate and complies with applicable Department of Transportation and EPA requirements.

(11) A detailed (but easy to understand) list of vehicle models and the applicable in-use CREE emission standard. The list of models shall include the applicable carline/subconfiguration parameters (including carline, equivalent test weight, road-load horsepower, axle ratio, engine code, transmission class, transmission configuration and basic engine); the test parameters (ETW and a, b, c, dynamometer coefficients) and the associated CREE emission standard. The manufacturer shall provide the method of identifying EPA engine code for applicable in-use vehicles.
