
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 610 - FUEL ECONOMY RETROFIT DEVICES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 610.11 Definitions.
####### and

(16) "Retrofitted configuration" means the test configuration after adjustment of engine calibrations to the retrofit specificationsafter all retrofit hardware has been installed.

(17) "Data fleet" means a fleet of automobiles tested at "zero device-miles" in "baseline configuration," the "retrofitted configuration" and in some cases the "adjusted configuration," in order to determine the changes in fuel economy and exhaust emissions due to the "retrofitted configuration," and where applicable the changes due to the "adjusted configuration," as compared to the fuel economy and exhaust emissions of the "baseline configuration."

(18) "Durability fleet" means a fleet of automobiles operated for mileage accumulation used to assess deterioration effects associated with the retrofit device.

(19) "Zero device-miles" means the period of time between retrofit installation and the accumulation of 100 miles of automobile operation after installation.

(20) "Independent laboratory" means a test facility operated independently of any motor vehicle, motor vehicle engine, or retrofit device manufacturer capable of performing retrofit device evaluation tests. Additionally, the laboratory shall have no financial interests in the outcome of these tests other than a fee charged for each test performed.

(21) "Evaluation program" or "program" means the sequence of analyses and tests prescribed by the Administrator as described in ยง 610.13 in order to evaluate the performance of a retrofit device.

(22) "Preliminary analysis" means the engineering analysis performed by EPA prior to testing prescribed by the Administrator based on data and information submitted by a manufacturer or available from other sources.
