
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 600 - FUEL ECONOMY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EXHAUST EMISSIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Appendix VI to Part 600 - Sample Fuel Economy Labels and Style Guidelines for 2013 and Later Model Years

This appendix illustrates label content and format for 2013 and later model years. Manufacturers must make a good faith effort to conform to these templates and follow these formatting specifications. EPA will make available electronic files for creating labels.

(a) Fuel economy labels must be printed on white or very light paper. Any label markings for which colors are not specified must be in black and white as shown. Some portions of the label must be filled with a blue or blue-shaded color as specified in subpart D of this part. Use the color blue defined in CMYK values of 40c-10m-0y-0k, or it may be specified as Pantone 283.

(b) Use a Univers font from Adobe or another source that properly reproduces the labels as shown in the samples. Use Light (L), Roman (R), Bold (B) or Black (Bl) font weights as noted. Font size is shown in points, followed by leading specifications in points to indicate line spacing (if applicable). Use white characters in black fields; use black characters in all other places. Unless noted otherwise, text is left-justified with a 1.6 millimeter margin. Some type may need tracking adjustments to fit in the designated space.

(c) Use the following conventions for lines and borders:

(1) Narrow lines defining the border or separating the main fields are 1.6 millimeter thick.

(2) Each rectangular shape or area, including the overall label outline, has an upper left corner that is square (0 radius). All other corners have a 3.2 millimeter radius.

(d) Fuel and vehicle icons, range and slider bars, and agency names and logos are available electronically.

(e) The following figures illustrate the formatting specifications:
