
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter Q - Energy Policy
#### PART 610 - FUEL ECONOMY RETROFIT DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Durability Test Procedures
###### ยง 610.52 Maintenance.
####### Unscheduled maintenance.

(c)Because the vehicles used for durability evaluation in this program will probably have considerable mileage accumulation and unknown maintenance prior to inclusion in the program, it can be anticipated that certain vehicle and engine failures may occur, which may be unrelated to the retrofit device. Unscheduled maintenance will be performed only in those cases where a significant and obvious driveability problem has been reported by the driver of the vehicle.

(1) Correction of the following problems will be made as soon as the problems occur:

(i) Tire replacement (same size and type).

(ii) Vehicle body repairs (remote from engine and retrofit).

(iii) Windshield wipers.

(iv) Fluid levels unrelated to retrofit.

(v) Brakes.

(vi) Hoses unrelated to retrofit.

(vii) Belts unrelated to retrofit.

(viii) Suspension failures.

(ix) Wheel alignment.

(x) Steering.

(xi) Wheel bearings.

(xii) Non-engine electrical system.

(xiii) Drivetrain components (U-joints, axles, transmission adjustments, etc.)

(2) Other unscheduled maintenance of the engine or drivetrain may be made as directed by the Administrator. Upon notification of a need for unscheduled maintenance, the Administrator may decide that before and after maintenance fuel economy tests are required.
