
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 700 - GENERAL
##### Subpart C - Fees
###### ยง 700.45 Fee payments.
####### Multiple parties, including joint submitters and consortia.

(f)(1) Joint submitters of a TSCA section 5 notice are required to remit the applicable fee identified in paragraph (c) of this section for each section 5 notice submitted. Only one fee is required for each submission, regardless of the number of joint submitters for that notice. To qualify for the fee identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, each joint submitter of a TSCA section 5 notice must qualify as a small business concern under ยง 700.43 of this chapter.

(2) Any consortium formed to split the cost of the applicable fee under section 4 of the Act is required to remit the appropriate fee identified in paragraph (c) of this section for each test rule, test order, or enforceable consent agreement regardless of the number of manufacturers and/or processors in that consortium. For the consortium to qualify for the fee identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, each person in the consortium must qualify as a small business concern under ยง 700.43 of this chapter. Failure to submit fee payment pursuant to this paragraph, or to provide notice of failure to reach agreement pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section constitutes a violation by each consortium member.

(i) The consortium must identify a principal sponsor and provide notification to EPA that a consortium has formed. The notification must be accomplished within 60 days of the publication date of a test rule under section 4 of the Act, or within 60 days of the issuance of a test order under Section 4 of the Act, or within 60 days of the signing of an enforceable consent agreement under section 4 of the Act. EPA may permit additional entities to join an existing consortium prior to the expiration of the notification period if the principal sponsor provides updated notification.

(ii) Notification must be submitted electronically via the Agency's electronic reporting software-Central Data Exchange (CDX)-and include the following information:

(A) Full name, address, telephone number and signature of principal sponsor;

(B) Name(s) and contact information for each manufacturer and/or processor associating with the consortium.

(iii) It is up to the consortium to determine how fees will be split among the persons in the consortium.

(iv) Consortia are strongly encouraged to set lower fees for small business concerns participating in the consortium.

(v) If a consortium is unable to come to terms on how fees will be split among the persons in the consortium, the principal sponsor must notify EPA in writing before the end of the notification period in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.

(vi) If a consortium provides notice to EPA under paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section that they failed to reach agreement on payment, EPA will assess fees to all persons as individuals described under paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(3) Any consortium formed to split the cost of the applicable fee supporting a risk evaluation under section 6(b) of the Act is required to remit the appropriate fee identified in paragraph (c) of this section for each risk evaluation, regardless of the number of manufacturers in that consortium. For the consortium to qualify for the fee identified in paragraph (c)(1)(vii) of this section, each person in the consortium must qualify as a small business concern under ยง 700.43 of this chapter. Failure to provide notice or submit fee payment pursuant to this paragraph (f)(3) constitutes a violation by each consortium member.

(i) Notification must be provided to EPA that a consortium has formed. The notification must be accomplished within 60 days of the publication of the final scope of a chemical risk evaluation under section 6(b)(4)(D) of the Act or within 60 days of EPA providing notification to a manufacturer that a manufacturer-requested risk evaluation has been granted.

(ii) Notification must be submitted electronically via the Agency's electronic reporting software-Central Data Exchange (CDX)-and include the following information:

(A) Full name, address, telephone number and signature of principal sponsor;

(B) Name(s) and contact information for each manufacturer and/or processor associating with the consortium.

(iii) It is up to the consortium to determine how fees will be split among the persons in the consortium.

(iv) Consortia are strongly encouraged to set lower fees for small business concerns participating in the consortium.

(v) If a consortium is unable to come to terms on how fees will be split among the persons in the consortium, the principal sponsor must notify EPA in writing before the end of the notification period in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section.

(vi) If a consortium provides notice to EPA under paragraph (f)(3)(v) of this section that they failed to reach agreement on payment, EPA will assess fees to all persons as individuals as described under paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(4) If multiple persons are subject to fees triggered by section 4 or 6(b) of the Act and no consortium is formed, EPA will determine the portion of the total applicable fee to be remitted by each person subject to the requirement. Each person's share of the applicable fee specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be in proportion to the total number of manufacturers and/or processors of the chemical substance, with lower fees for small businesses:

(5) If multiple persons are subject to fees triggered by section 4 or 6(b) of the Act and some inform EPA of their intent to form a consortium while others choose not to associate with the consortium, EPA will take the following steps to allocate fee amounts:

(i) Count the total number of manufacturers, including the number of manufacturers within any consortia; divide the total fee amount by the total number of manufacturers; and allocate equally on a per capita basis to generate a base fee.

(ii) Provide all small businesses who are either not associated with a consortium, or associated with an all-small business consortium with an 80% discount from the base fee referenced previously.

(iii) Calculate the total remaining fee and total number of remaining manufacturers by subtracting out the discounted fees and the number of small businesses identified;

(iv) Reallocate the remaining fee across those remaining individuals and groups in equal amounts, counting each manufacturer in a consortium as one person; and

(v) Inform consortia and individuals of their requisite fee amount. Small businesses in a successfully-formed consortium, other than a consortium of all small businesses will not be afforded the 80% discount by EPA, but consortia managers are strongly encouraged to provide a discount for small business concerns.
