
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### § 52.140 Monitoring transportation trends.

(a) This section is applicable to the State of Arizona.

(b) In order to assure the effectiveness of the inspection and maintenance program and the retrofit devices required under the Arizona implementation plan, the State shall monitor the actual per-vehicle emissions reductions occurring as a result of such measures. All data obtained from such monitoring shall be included in the quarterly report submitted to the Administrator by the State in accordance with § 58.35 of this chapter. The first quarterly report shall cover the period January 1 to March 31, 1976.

(c) In order to assure the effective implementation of §§ 52.137, 52.138, and 52.139, the State shall monitor vehicle miles traveled and average vehicle speeds for each area in which such sections are in effect and during such time periods as may be appropriate to evaluate the effectiveness of such a program. All data obtained from such monitoring shall be included in the quarterly report submitted to the Administrator by the State of Arizona in accordance with § 58.35 of this chapter. The first quarterly report shall cover the period from July 1 to September 30, 1974. The vehicle miles traveled and vehicle speed data shall be collected on a monthly basis and submitted in a format similar to Table 1.

(d) No later than March 1, 1974, the State shall submit to the Administrator a compliance schedule to implement this section. The program description shall include the following:

(1) The agency or agencies responsible for conducting, overseeing, and maintaining the monitoring program.

(2) The administrative procedures to be used.

(3) A description of the methods to be used to collect the emission data, VMT data, and vehicle speed data; a description of the geographical area to which the data apply; identification of the location at which the data will be collected; and the time periods during which the data will be collected.

(e) The quarterly reports specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be submitted to the Administrator through the Regional Office, and shall be due within 45 days after the end of each reporting period.
