
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 702 - GENERAL PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Procedures for Prioritization of Chemical Substances for Risk Evaluation
###### ยง 702.7 Initiation of prioritization process.

(a) EPA generally expects to initiate the prioritization process for a chemical substance only when it believes that the information necessary to prioritize the substance is reasonably available.

(b) EPA will initiate prioritization by publishing a notice in theidentifying a chemical substance for prioritization. EPA will include a general explanation in this notice for why it chose to initiate the process on the chemical substance.

(c) The prioritization timeframe in ยง 702.1(d) begins upon EPA's publication of the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Publication of the notice in thepursuant to paragraph (b) of this section will initiate a period of 90 days during which interested persons may submit relevant information on that chemical substance. Relevant information might include, but is not limited to, any information that may inform the screening review conducted pursuant to ยง 702.9(a). EPA will open a separate docket for each chemical substance to facilitate receipt of information.

(e) EPA may, in its discretion, extend the public comment period in paragraph (d) of this section for up to three months in order to receive or evaluate information submitted under 15 U.S.C. 2603(a)(2)(B). The length of the extension will be based upon EPA's assessment of the time necessary for EPA to receive and/or evaluate information submitted under 15 U.S.C. 2603(a)(2)(B).
