
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 702 - GENERAL PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Chemical Substance Risk Evaluations
###### ยง 702.37 Submission of manufacturer requests for risk evaluations.
####### Method for submission.,http://cdx.epa.gov.

(b)One or more manufacturers of a chemical substance may request that EPA conduct a risk evaluation. All requests submitted to EPA under this subpart must be submitted via the EPA Central Data Exchange (CDX) found atRequests must include all of the following information:

(1) Name, mailing address, and contact information of the entity (or entities) submitting the request. If more than one manufacturer submits the request, all individual manufacturers must provide their contact information.

(2) The chemical identity of the chemical substance that is the subject of the request. At a minimum, this includes, all known names of the chemical substance, including common or trades names, CAS number, and molecular structure of the chemical substance A request for risk evaluations of a category of chemical substances must include an explanation of why the category is appropriate under 15 U.S.C. 2625(c), and EPA will grant such request only upon determining that the requested category is appropriate for risk evaluation.

(3) The manufacturer must identify the circumstances on which they are requesting that EPA conduct a risk evaluation and include a rationale for why these circumstances constitute conditions of use under ยง 702.33.

(4) The request must also include a list of all the existing information that is relevant to whether the chemical substance, under the circumstances identified by the manufacturer(s), presents an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. The list must be accompanied by an explanation as to why such information is adequate to permit EPA to complete a risk evaluation addressing the circumstances identified by the manufacturer(s), The request need not include copies of the information; citations are sufficient, if the information is publically available. The request must include or reference all available information on the health and environmental hazard(s) of the chemical substance, human and environmental exposure(s), and exposed population(s), as relevant to the circumstances identified in the request. At a minimum, this must include all the following, as relevant to the circumstances identified:

(i) The chemical substance's hazard and exposure potential;

(ii) The chemical substance's persistence and bioaccumulation;

(iii) Potentially exposed or susceptible subpopulations which the manufacturer(s) believes to be relevant to the EPA risk evaluation;

(iv) Whether there is any storage of the chemical substance near significant sources of drinking water, including the storage facility location and the nearby drinking water source(s);

(v) The chemical substance's production volume or significant changes in production volume; and

(vi) Any other information relevant to the potential risks of the chemical substance under the circumstances identified in the request.

(5) The request must include a commitment to provide to EPA any referenced information upon request.

(6) Scientific information submitted must be consistent with the scientific standards in 15 U.S.C. 2625(h).

(7) A signed certification that all information contained in the request is accurate and complete, as follows:

(i) I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief:

(A) The company named in this request manufacturers the chemical substance identified for risk evaluation.

(B) All information provided in the notice is complete and accurate as of the date of the request.

(C) I have either identified or am submitting all information in my possession, control, and a description of all other data known to or reasonably ascertainable by me as required for this request under this part. I am aware it is unlawful to knowingly submit incomplete, false and/or misleading information in this request and there are significant criminal penalties for such unlawful conduct, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.

(ii) [Reserved]
