
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 702 - GENERAL PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Chemical Substance Risk Evaluations
###### ยง 702.37 Submission of manufacturer requests for risk evaluations.
####### EPA's decision.

(6)(i) Within 60 days of the end of the comment period provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, EPA will review the request along with any additional information received during the comment period to determine whether the request meets the criteria and requirements of this section.

(ii) EPA will grant the request if it determines that all of the following have been met:

(A) That the circumstances identified in the request constitute conditions of use that warrant inclusion in a risk evaluation for the chemical substance;

(B) That EPA has all of the information needed to conduct such risk evaluation on the conditions of use that were the subject of the request; and

(C) All other criteria and requirements of this section have been met.

(iii) At the end of this 60-day period, EPA will notify the submitting manufacturer(s) of its decision and include the basis for granting or denying the request. Bases for a denial, include the manufacturer has not provided sufficient information to complete the risk evaluation on the condition(s) of use requested, or that the circumstances identified in the request either do not constitute conditions of use, or the conditions of use do not warrant inclusion in a risk evaluation for the chemical substance. This notification will also identify any additional conditions of use, as determined by the Administrator, that will be included in this risk evaluation.

(iv) Within 30 days of receipt of EPA's notification the requester(s) may withdraw the request.
