
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 702 - GENERAL PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Chemical Substance Risk Evaluations
###### ยง 702.41 Evaluation requirements.
####### Scope of the risk evaluation.

(c)The scope of the risk evaluation will include all the following:

(1) The condition(s) of use, as determined by the Administrator, that the EPA plans to consider in the risk evaluation.

(2) The potentially exposed populations, including any potentially exposed or susceptible subpopulations as identified as relevant to the risk evaluation by the Agency under the conditions of use, that EPA plans to evaluate; the ecological receptors that EPA plans to evaluate; and the hazards to health and the environment that EPA plans to evaluate.

(3) A description of the reasonably available information and science approaches EPA plans to use in the risk evaluation.

(4) A conceptual model:

(i) The scope documents will include a Conceptual Model that describes actual or predicted relationships between the chemical substance, the conditions of use within the scope of the evaluation and human and environmental receptors.

(ii) The conceptual model will identify human and ecological health hazards the EPA plans to evaluate for the exposure scenarios EPA plans to evaluate.

(iii) Conceptual model development will consider the life cycle of the chemical substance, including manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, storage, use, and disposal, relevant to the conditions of use within the scope of the evaluation

(5) An analysis plan:

(i) The scope documents will include an analysis plan that identifies the approaches, methods, and/or metrics that EPA plans to use to assess exposures, effects, and risk, including associated uncertainty and variability for each risk evaluation. The analysis plan will also identify the strategy for using information, accepted science policies, models, and screening methodologies.

(ii) Hypotheses about the relationships identified in the conceptual model will be described. The relative strengths of alternative hypotheses if any will be evaluated to determine the appropriate risk assessment approaches.

(6) The Agency's plan for peer review.

(7) Developing the scope.
