
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 702 - GENERAL PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Chemical Substance Risk Evaluations
###### ยง 702.41 Evaluation requirements.
####### Information and information sources.

(b)(1) EPA will base each risk evaluation on reasonably available information.

(2) EPA generally expects to initiate a risk evaluation for a chemical substance when EPA believes that all or most of the information necessary to perform the risk evaluation is reasonably available. EPA expects to use its authorities under the Act, and other information gathering authorities, when necessary to obtain the information needed to perform a risk evaluation for a chemical substance before initiating the risk evaluation for such substance. EPA will use such authorities on a case-by-case basis during the performance of a risk evaluation to obtain information as needed to ensure that EPA has adequate, reasonably available information to perform the evaluation.

(3) Among other sources of information, the Agency will consider information and advice provided by the Science Advisory Committee on Chemicals established pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 2625.

(4) In conducting risk evaluations, EPA will utilize reasonably available information including information, models, and screening methodologies, as appropriate. The approaches used will be determined by the quality of the information, the deadlines specified in TSCA section 6(b)(4)(G) for completing the risk evaluation, and the extent to which the information reduces uncertainty.

(5) Where appropriate, to the extent practicable, and scientifically justified, EPA will require the development of information generated without the use of new testing on vertebrates in performing risk evaluation.
