
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 702 - GENERAL PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Chemical Substance Risk Evaluations
###### ยง 702.41 Evaluation requirements.
####### Exposure assessment.

(e)(1) Where relevant, the likely duration, intensity, frequency, and number of exposures under the conditions of use will be considered.

(2) Chemical-specific factors including, but not limited to: Physical- chemical properties and environmental fate and transport parameters will be examined.

(3) Exposure information related to potential human health or ecological hazards of the chemical substance will be reviewed in a manner consistent with the description of best available science and weight of scientific evidence in ยง 702.33 and all methods will be documented.

(4) The human health exposure assessment will consider all potentially exposed and susceptible subpopulation(s) determined to be relevant, as identified in the final scope document published pursuant to paragraph (c)(8) of this section.

(5) Environmental health exposure assessment:

(i) The environmental health exposure assessment will characterize and evaluate the interaction of the chemical substance with the ecological receptors identified in the final scope document published pursuant to paragraph (c)(8) of this section.

(ii) Exposures considered will include populations and communities, depending on the chemical substance and the ecological characteristic involved.
