
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 702 - GENERAL PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Chemical Substance Risk Evaluations
###### ยง 702.41 Evaluation requirements.
####### Hazard assessment.

(d)(1) The hazard information relevant to the chemical substance will be evaluated using hazards identified in the final scope document published pursuant to paragraph (c)(8) of this section, for the identified exposure scenarios, including any identified potentially exposed or susceptible subpopulation(s).

(2) The hazard assessment process will identify the types of hazards to health or the environment posed by the chemical substance under the condition(s) of use within the scope of the risk evaluation. Hazard information related to potential health and environmental hazards of the chemical substance will be reviewed in a manner consistent with best available science and weight of scientific evidence as defined in ยง 702.33 and all assessment methods will be documented. This process includes the identification, evaluation, and synthesis of information to describe the potential health and environmental hazards of the chemical substance.

(3) Relevant potential human and environmental hazards will be evaluated.

(4) The relationship between the dose of the chemical substance and the occurrence of health and environmental effects or outcomes will be evaluated.

(5) Studies evaluated may include, but would not be limited to: Human epidemiological studies, in vivo and/or in vitro laboratory studies, biomonitoring studies, mechanistic and/or kinetic studies in a variety of test systems, including but not limited to toxicokinetics and toxicodynamics, computational toxicology such as high-throughput assays, genomic response assays, data from structure-activity relationships, and ecological field data.

(6) Hazard identification will include an evaluation of the strengths, limitations, and uncertainties associated with the reasonably available information.

(7) The human health hazard assessment will consider all potentially exposed and susceptible subpopulation(s) determined to be relevant, as identified in the final scope document published pursuant to paragraph (c)(8) of this section.

(8) The environmental health hazard assessment will consider the relationship between the chemical substance and the occurrence of an ecological hazard elicited.
