
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 704 - REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Chemical-Specific Reporting and Recordkeeping Rules
###### ยง 704.20 Chemical substances manufactured or processed at the nanoscale.
####### When reporting is not required.

(c)(1) The following chemical substances are not subject to reporting under this section:

(i) Chemical substances formed at the nanoscale as part of a film on a surface.

(ii) DNA.

(iii) RNA.

(iv) Proteins.

(v) Enzymes.

(vi) Lipids.

(vii) Carbohydrates.

(viii) Peptides.

(ix) Liposomes.

(x) Antibodies.

(xi) Viruses.

(xii) Microorganisms.

(xiii) Chemical substances which dissociate completely in water to form ions that are smaller than 1 nanometer.

(xiv) Chemical substances that are not on the TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory at the time reporting would otherwise be required under this section.

(2) Persons who submitted a notice under 40 CFR parts 720, 721, or 723 for a reportable chemical substance on or after January 1, 2005 are not required to submit a report for the reportable chemical substance submitted except where the person manufactures or processes a discrete form of the reportable chemical substance.

(3) Section 704.5(a) through (e) apply to reporting under this section. Small manufacturers and processors as defined in paragraph (a) of this section are exempt from reporting under this section.

(4) Persons who submitted some or all of the required information for a reportable chemical substance as part of the Nanoscale Materials Stewardship Program are not required to report the information previously submitted except where the person manufactures or processes a discrete form of the reportable chemical substance.
