
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 704 - REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Chemical-Specific Reporting and Recordkeeping Rules
###### ยง 704.33 P-tert-butylbenzoic acid (P-TBBA), p-tert-butyltoluene (P-TBT) and p-tert-butylbenzaldehyde (P-TBB).
####### Persons who must report.

(b)Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the following persons are subject to the reporting requirements of this rule; a person may become subject to this rule more than once, for more than one substance or under more than one of the criteria listed in this paragraph (b).

(1) Persons who manufactured, imported, or processed P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB for commercial purposes during the person's latest complete corporate fiscal year prior to June 25, 1986. For purposes of this provision, processors of P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB shall include only those persons who processed the substances other than as non-isolated intermediates.

(2) Persons who commence manufacture or importation of P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB for commercial purposes after June 25, 1986. This provision is applicable to persons who cease manufacture or importation of P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB after June 25, 1986 and then subsequently resume manufacture or importation of the substance(s).

(3) Persons who process P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB for commercial purposes in any way other than as a non-isolated intermediate after June 25, 1986.
