
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 704 - REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Chemical-Specific Reporting and Recordkeeping Rules
###### ยง 704.33 P-tert-butylbenzoic acid (P-TBBA), p-tert-butyltoluene (P-TBT) and p-tert-butylbenzaldehyde (P-TBB).
####### Information to report.

(d)Persons subject to this rule as described in paragraph (b) of this section shall report information to EPA as specified in this paragraph (d). Respondents to this rule shall report all information that is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person reporting. For purposes of importer reporting under this paragraph, a site is the operating unit within the person's organization which is directly responsible for importing the substance and which controls the import transaction. The import site may in some cases be the organization's headquarters office in the United States.

(1) All manufacturers, importers, and processors specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall report their name and headquarters address.

(2) All manufacturers, importers, and processors specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall report the name, address, and office telephone number (including area code) of their principal technical contact.

(3) All manufacturers, importers, and processors specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall report the name and address of each site where P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB is manufactured, imported, or processed.

(4) All manufacturers, importers, and processors specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section only shall report the information described in this paragraph (d)(4). Respondents to this paragraph (d)(4) shall report separately for each substance that they manufacture, import, or process, and for each site at which they do so. However, if the information to be reported in response to this paragraph (d)(4) is the same for different sites, the respondent need not report separately for each site but need only notify EPA that the information is the same for each site. The information to be reported under this paragraph (d)(4) shall cover the respondent's latest complete corporate fiscal year prior to June 25, 1986. Respondents to this paragraph (d)(4) shall report the following information:

(i) The total quantity (by weight) of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB manufactured, imported, or processed for commercial purposes per site.

(ii) A narrative description of the manufacturing, importing, or processing operation(s) involving P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site.

(iii) A narrative description of worker activities involving P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site, including the number of workers potentially exposed to each substance and, if applicable, the number of workers potentially exposed to more than one substance.

(iv) The potential routes of worker exposure to P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site (e.g., inhalation, ingestion, dermal absorption).

(v) Available monitoring data from employee breathing zones with potential exposure to P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site, including a description of the method of monitoring, the number of samples taken, and the potential number of workers similarly exposed for each worker job category. Respondents to this paragraph (d)(4)(v) shall submit data showing a range of 8-hour time weighted averages (TWAs), provided that the data are available in that form. Respondents also shall submit a calculated geometric mean of these data, with an explanation of the method by which the mean was derived. However, if the monitoring data are not available in the form of 8-hour TWAs, respondents shall submit raw sample data results and the duration time of sampling for each job category.

(vi) A narrative description of any personal protective equipment and/or engineering controls used to prevent exposure to P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site.

(vii) A listing of the estimated quantities of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB released directly into air, water, or land from each site.

(viii) A narrative description of the times during the manufacturing, importing, or processing operations involving P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB when environmental release occurs at each site.

(ix) A narrative description of any engineering controls used to prevent environmental release of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site.

(x) A narrative description of all known end uses of any P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB that is manufactured, imported, or processed by the respondent. The narrative need not include customer identity.

(xi) A narrative description of the methods used at each site for disposing of wastes generated during the manufacture, importation, or processing of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB, including the quantity and content of such wastes (per site), the method of disposal, and an identification of the disposal site(s).

(5) All manufactureres, importers, and processors specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall report the information described in this paragraph (d)(5). Respondents to this paragraph (d)(5) shall report separately for each substance that they intend to manufacture, import, or process during the first 2 years following the date on which they become subject to this rule. The data reported under this paragraph (d)(5) shall cover that 2-year period. Respondents to this paragraph (d)(5) shall report separately for each site at which they intend to manufacture, import, or process each substance. Respondents need not comply with this paragraph (d)(5) if the information to be reported is identical to that reported by the respondent under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, provided that the respondent makes note of that fact to EPA. Respondents to this paragraph (d)(5) shall report the following information:

(i) An estimate of the total quantity (by weight) of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB that the respondent intends to manufacture, import, or process for commercial purposes per site during each of the first 2 years following the date on which the respondent becomes subject to this rule.

(ii) A narrative description of the intended manufacturing, importing, or processing activities involving P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site during the first 2 years following the date on which the respondent becomes subject to this rule. The description shall include a summary of the intended manufacturing, importing, or processing operation(s); a summary of intended worker activities involving the substances, including an estimate of the number of persons anticipated to be exposed annually to P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB (per site) during the 2-year period, the anticipated routes of worker exposure to the substances (e.g., inhalation, ingestion, dermal absorption); and a summary of any personal protective equipment and/or engineering controls that the respondent intends to use to prevent exposure to the substances.

(iii) A narrative description of anticipated environmental releases of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site from the manufacture, importation, or processing of these substances during the first 2 years following the date on which the respondent becomes subject to this rule. The narrative shall include the anticipated quantities of each substance released directly into air, water, or land, the anticipated routes of environmental release, and any intended engineering controls to be used to prevent environmental release of the substances.

(iv) A narrative description of all anticipated end uses or P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB resulting from the respondent's manufacture, importation, or processing of the substances during the first 2 years following the date on which the respondent becomes subject to this rule. The summary need not include customer identity.

(v) A narrative summary of the anticipated disposal of wastes generated from the manufacture, importation, or processing of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB during the first 2 years following the date on which the respondent becomes subject to this rule. The summary shall include the anticipated quantity and content of such wastes (per site), the intended method of disposal, and an identification of intended disposal site(s).
