
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 704 - REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Chemical-Specific Reporting and Recordkeeping Rules
###### ยง 704.43 Chlorinated naphthalenes.
####### What information to report.

(e)Persons described in paragraph (c) of this section must notify EPA of current or prospective manufacture or import. The notice must include, to the extent that it is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person making the report, the following information:

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal technical contact.

(3) For chemical substances proposed to be imported, the proposed date of import.

(4) A description of the use(s) or intended use(s) for the chemical substance.

(5) A description of the isomeric ratio and extent of chlorination of the chemical substance and the impurity level of polychlorinated biphenyls.

(6) The quantity (by weight) manufactured or imported within 12 months prior to October 8, 1984, if any, and the estimated quantity (by weight) to be manufactured or imported for the first 3 years following the date of the report or the date of the intended start of import whichever occurs later.

(7) The number of persons exposed to the chemical substance during manufacture, import, processing, distribution in commerce, use, and disposal.

(8) If a manufacturer's waste contains one or more of the chemical substances identified in paragraph (b) of this section, the manufacturer must:

(i) Provide the quantity (by weight) of the chemical substances identified in paragraph (b) of this section present in the waste.

(ii) Identify the constituents of the waste and their concentrations,

(iii) State the rate of waste generation as a percentage of production volume,

(iv) Describe where in the manufacturing process the waste is generated, and

(v) Describe the method for disposal of the waste.
