
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 704 - REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Chemical-Specific Reporting and Recordkeeping Rules
###### ยง 704.95 Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediyl-bis[nitrilobis-(methylene)]]tetrakis- (EDTMPA) and its salts.
####### What information to report.

(c)Persons identified in paragraph (b) of this section must report to EPA, for each of the substances identified in paragraph (a) of this section, the following information to the extent known to or reasonably ascertainable by them.

(1) Initial Report:

(i) Name and Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number of the substance for which the report is submitted.

(ii) Company name and headquarters address.

(iii) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal technical contact.

(iv) The total quantity (by weight in pounds) of the substance manufactured or imported for the person's most recently completed corporate fiscal year.

(v) A description of the commercial uses of the substance during the person's most recently completed corporate fiscal year, including the production volume for each use.

(vi) The estimated quantity (by weight in pounds) of the substance proposed to be manufactured or imported in the person's current corporate fiscal year.

(vii) A description of the intended commercial uses of the substance during the person's current corporate fiscal year, including the estimated production volume for each use.

(2) Follow-up Report:

(i) Name and Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number of the substance for which the report is submitted.

(ii) Company name and headquarters address.

(iii) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal technical contact.

(iv) The estimated quantity (by weight in pounds) of the substance proposed to be manufactured or imported in the person's current corporate fiscal year.

(v) A description of the intended commercial uses of the substance during the person's current corporate fiscal year, including the estimated production volume for each use.
