
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 704 - REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Chemical-Specific Reporting and Recordkeeping Rules
###### ยง 704.102 Hexachloronorbornadiene.
####### Information to report.

(d)(1) Initial reports must include, to the extent that it is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person reporting, the following information:

(i) Company name and address.

(ii) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal contact.

(iii) Name and address of plant sites where HEX-BCH is or is proposed to be manufactured, imported, or processed, noting for each plant site which activity takes or would take place at each site.

(iv) If applicable, the intended date for initiating the manufacture, import, or processing of HEX-BCH.

(v) If applicable, the actual quantity (by weight) of HEX-BCH manufactured, imported, or processed during the most recently concluded year.

(vi) The estimated quantity (by weight) of HEX-BCH to be manufactured, imported, or processed each year during the first 3 years following the date of the report or the date of the intended start of manufacture, import, or processing, whichever occurs later.

(vii) For each year described in paragraphs (d)(1) (v) and (vi) of this section: the number or expected number of employees exposed to HEX-BCH during the manufacture, import, processing, distribution in commerce, use, and disposal; the routes of exposure; and the 8-hour time weighted average of exposure.

(viii) If employees are exposed or expected to be exposed to HEX-BCH, state for each reported route of exposure, whether personal protective equipment is used or expected to be used, and a description of the personal protective equipment.

(ix) The actual or anticipated quantity, content, method of disposal, and disposal site of any wastes generated or expected to be generated during the manufacture, importation, or processing of HEX-BCH.

(2) Subsequent reports must provide, to the extent known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person reporting, the information in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and a statement explaining why the subsequent report is required.
