
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 704 - REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Chemical-Specific Reporting and Recordkeeping Rules
###### ยง 704.102 Hexachloronorbornadiene.
####### When to report.

(e)(1) Persons who are manufacturing, importing, or processing HEX-BCH on January 2, 1986, must submit an initial report to EPA by February 3, 1986.

(2) Persons who propose to manufacture, import, or process HEX-BCH on or after January 2, 1986, must submit an initial report to EPA by February 3, 1986, or 30 days after making the management decision described in ยง 704.3 "Propose to manufacture, import, or process," whichever is later in time.

(3) Persons described in paragraph (b) of this section, who have submitted a report described in paragraph (d) of this section, must submit a subsequent report within 30 days of any of the following events. Based on the most recently submitted report:

(i) The manufacture, importation, or processing of HEX-BCH begins at a plant site different than that reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.

(ii) The actual quantity (by weight) of HEX-BCH manufactured, imported, or processed in a given year is greater than or equal to 200 percent of the estimated value for that year reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section.

(iii) The total number of employees exposed to HEX-BCH is greater than 130 percent of the projected value reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section.

(iv) The route of exposures to HEX-BCH differs from that reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section.

(v) The actual 8-hour time weighted average exposure for any activity exceeds the projection reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section by more than 100 percent.

(vi) The method of disposal or disposal site reported pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ix) of this section has changed.

(vii) Three years have passed since the most recent submission of a report and the person is still engaged in the manufacture, importation, or processing of HEX-BCH.
