
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 707 - CHEMICAL IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
##### Subpart B - General Import Requirements and Restrictions
###### ยง 707.20 Chemical substances import policy.
####### Objectives.

(b)(1) TSCA is intended to be comprehensive, and assure protection of health and the environment from unreasonable risks associated with chemicals whether the chemicals are imported or produced domestically. This intent is manifested by the inclusion of importation in the Act's definition of the term "manufacture": "[M]anufacture means to import * * *, produce, or manufacture" (15 U.S.C. 2602(7)). Thus, importers are responsible for insuring that chemical importation complies with TSCA just as domestic manufacturers are responsible for insuring that chemical manufacture complies with TSCA.

(2)(i) The section 13 rule requires importers to sign the following statement for each import of chemical substances subject to TSCA: "I certify that all chemical substances in this shipment comply with all applicable rules or orders under TSCA and that I am not offering a chemical substance for entry in violation of TSCA or any applicable rule or order under TSCA." The certification will document that, in accordance with TSCA, the importer has taken the necessary steps to insure compliance.

(ii) The section 13 rule requires importers of chemicals not subject to TSCA (e.g., pesticides) to certify that compliance with TSCA is not required. Importers must certify this by signing the statement: "I certify that all chemicals in this shipment are not subject to TSCA." This is appropriate when a chemical import is not clearly identified as a pesticide or other chemical not subject to TSCA.

(3) The United States is involved in a major effort toward international harmonization in the control of chemicals. At such time as international agreement is reached on this issue, EPA would be prepared to modify its policy if necessary. EPA believes that its international harmonization efforts in the control of chemicals will protect health and the environment while fulfilling its obligations under the Trade Agreements Act of 1979.
