
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 707 - CHEMICAL IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
##### Subpart B - General Import Requirements and Restrictions
###### ยง 707.20 Chemical substances import policy.
####### Scope.,et seq.

(a)(1) This statement addresses the policy of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on importation of chemical substances, mixtures, and articles under section 13 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA; 15 U.S.C. 2601). In particular, it addresses aspects of the regulation promulgated by the United States Customs Service (Customs), Department of the Treasury (19 CFR 12.118 through 12.127, and 127.28 [amended]) to implement section 13 of TSCA, 15 U.S.C. 2612. Section 13 requires the Secretary of the Treasury to refuse entry into the Customs territory of the United States of a chemical substance, mixture, or article if it does not comply with rules in effect under TSCA, or if it is offered for entry in violation of TSCA or rules or orders under TSCA.

(2) In addition to this statement of policy, EPA will continue, as necessary, to address problems associated with imports in rulemaking and other actions under individual sections of TSCA, i.e., sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 12. Sections 5, 6, and 7 apply directly to imports subject to the section 13 requirements. Section 12 may apply to export of a shipment that is refused entry under section 13. Importers may have obligations under sections 4 and 8; section 4 and 8 requirements for importers would not apply to individual chemical shipments and thus are not included under section 13 requirements. Interested persons should refer to the records of these individual rulemaking actions for specific information and guidance.
