
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 707 - CHEMICAL IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
##### Subpart B - General Import Requirements and Restrictions
###### ยง 707.20 Chemical substances import policy.
####### EPA enforcement.

(2)(i) EPA and Customs will monitor chemical imports to determine if shipments and their import comply with the certification requirements and the substantive mandates of TSCA. Customs will refuse entry to any shipment until such time as the certification is properly submitted. Customs will also detain a shipment if there are reasonable grounds to believe that such shipment or its import violates TSCA or regulations or orders thereunder. A violative shipment must either be brought into compliance, exported, destroyed, or voluntarily abandoned within the time periods prescribed in 19 CFR 12.124 of the section 13 rule.

(ii) When EPA determines that a shipment should be detained, EPA will identify the reasons for the detention and the necessary actions for an importer to bring the shipment into compliance with TSCA. If EPA has given this information to Customs before the district director issues the detention notice, the information will become part of the detention notice. The importer should contact one of the following EPA regional offices for guidance as to the proper procedures to correct any deficiencies in the shipment.

(iii) If Customs detains or refuses entry of a shipment (other than for failure to make the general certification) and the importer takes measures necessary to bring the shipment into conformity with the requirements of TSCA, EPA officials will reassess the shipment to determine its current compliance status. When a shipment is no longer in violation, EPA will notify the district director and the importer. The district director will then release the shipment. This notice will also serve as a determination to permit entry under 19 CFR 12.123(c) if a shipment is brought into compliance before the 19 CFR 12.123(c) decisionmaking process has been completed. If compliance is achieved after a 19 CFR 12.123(c) determination (adverse to the importer) has been made, the EPA notice to the district director will serve as a reversal of the decision to refuse entry.
