
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 707 - CHEMICAL IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
##### Subpart B - General Import Requirements and Restrictions
###### ยง 707.20 Chemical substances import policy.
####### The section 13 rule,General certification.

(c)-(1)(i) The rule promulgated under section 13 of TSCA by Customs, in consultation with EPA, implements the requirement of section 13 that chemical substances, mixtures, or articles not in compliance with TSCA, or whose importation is not in compliance with TSCA, shall be denied entry into the customs territory of the United States. The rule requires that importers certify by a statement, on the entry document or invoice, that any shipment of a chemical substance subject to TSCA, imported in bulk or as part of a mixture, complies with TSCA, and that it is not offered for entry in violation of TSCA or any rule or order under TSCA, or that the chemicals imported are not subject to TSCA.

(ii) The certification applies to TSCA sections 5, 6, and 7.

(iii) EPA expects that this certification will be based upon actual knowledge of the importer in most cases. However, EPA realizes that sometimes importers may not have actual knowledge of the chemical composition of imported mixtures. In these cases, the importer should attempt to discover the chemical constituents of the shipment by contacting another party to the transaction (e.g., his principal or the foreign manufacturer). This person may be able to identify the components of the mixture, or at least state that the substances comply with TSCA. The greater the effort an importer makes to learn the identities of the imported substances and their compliance with TSCA, the smaller his chance of committing a violation by importing a noncomplying shipment. If a shipment is ultimately determined to have violated TSCA, the good faith efforts of the importer to verify compliance, as evidenced by documents contained in his files, may obviate or mitigate the assessment of a civil penalty under section 16 of TSCA.
