
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 707 - CHEMICAL IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
##### Subpart D - Notices of Export Under Section 12(b)
###### ยง 707.65 Submission to agency.

(a) For each action under TSCA triggering export notification, exporters must notify EPA of their export or intended export of each subject chemical substance or mixture for which export notice is required under ยง 707.60 in accordance with the following:

(1) The notice must be in writing;

(2)(i) The notice must be for the first export or intended export by an exporter to a particular country in a calendar year when the chemical substance or mixture is the subject of an order issued, an action that is pending, or relief that has been granted under TSCA section 5(f), a rule that has been proposed or promulgated under TSCA section 6, or an action that is pending or relief that has been granted under TSCA section 7.

(ii) The notice must only be for the first export or intended export by an exporter to a particular country when the chemical substance or mixture is the subject of an order issued, an action that is pending, or relief that has been granted under TSCA section 5(e), a rule that has been proposed or promulgated under TSCA section 5(a)(2), or when the submission of data is required under TSCA section 4 or 5(b). Under this paragraph, notice of export to a particular country is not required if an exporter previously submitted to EPA a notice of export to that country prior to January 16, 2007.

(3) The notice must be postmarked within seven days of forming the intent to export or on the date of export, whichever is earlier. A notice of intent to export must be based on a definite contractual obligation, or an equivalent intra-company agreement, to export the regulated chemical.

(b) If the EPA action that prompts the notice is a proposed rule, the requirement to submit export notices to EPA shall begin thirty days after publication of the action in the

(c) Notices shall be marked "TSCA Section 12(b) Notice" and sent to EPA by mail or delivered by hand or courier. Send notices by mail to: Document Control Office (7407M), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001 (Attention: TSCA Section 12(b) Notice). Hand delivery of TSCA section 12(b) notices should be made to: OPPT Document Control Office (DCO), EPA East., Rm. 6428, Environmental Protection Agency, 1201 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC (Attention: TSCA Section 12(b) Notice). The DCO is open from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number for the DCO is (202) 564-8930. Such deliveries are only accepted during the DCO's normal hours of operation.
