
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 710 - COMPILATION OF THE TSCA CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE INVENTORY
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 710.1 Scope and compliance.

(a) This part establishes regulations governing reporting and recordkeeping by certain persons who manufacture, import, or process chemical substances for commercial purposes under section 8(a) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(a)) (TSCA). Section 8(a) authorizes the Administrator to require reporting of information necessary for administration of the Act and requires EPA to issue regulations for the purpose of compiling and keeping current an inventory of chemical substances manufactured or processed for a commercial purpose, as required by section 8(b) of the Act. Following an initial reporting period, EPA published an initial inventory of chemical substances manufactured, processed, or imported for commercial purposes. In accordance with section 8(b), EPA periodically amends the inventory to include new chemical substances which are manufactured or imported for a commercial purpose and reported under section 5(a)(1) of the Act. EPA also revises the categories of chemical substances and makes other amendments as appropriate.

(b) This part applies to the activities associated with the compilation of the TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory (Inventory) and the designation of chemical substances on the TSCA Inventory as active or inactive in U.S. commerce.

(c) Section 15(3) of TSCA makes it unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to submit information required under these reporting regulations. In addition, section 15(3) makes it unlawful for any person to fail to keep, and permit access to, records required by these regulations. Section 16 provides that any person who violates a provision of section 15 is liable to the United States for a civil penalty and may be criminally prosecuted. Pursuant to section 17, the Government may seek judicial relief to compel submission of section 8(a) information and to otherwise restrain any violation of section 15. (EPA does not intend to concentrate its enforcement efforts on insignificant clerical errors in reporting.)

(d) Each person who reports under these regulations must maintain records that document information reported under these regulations and, in accordance with the Act, permit access to, and the copying of, such records by EPA officials.
