
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 710 - COMPILATION OF THE TSCA CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE INVENTORY
##### Subpart B - Commercial Activity Notification
###### ยง 710.29 Information required in the notification.
####### Certification statements.

(5)The authorized official must certify that the submitted information has been completed in compliance with the requirements of this part as described in this paragraph.

(i) The certification must be signed and dated by the authorized official for the submitting company.

(ii) The following is required certification language for an authorized official submitting a Notice of Activity Form A under ยง 710.25(a) or ยง 710.25(b): "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision and the information contained therein, to the best of my knowledge, is true, accurate, and complete. I also certify that I have manufactured, imported, or processed the above chemical between the dates of June 21, 2006 and June 21, 2016. I am aware it is unlawful to knowingly submit incomplete, false and/or misleading information, and there are significant criminal penalties for such unlawful conduct, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment."

(iii) The following is required certification language for an authorized official submitting a Notice of Activity Form B under ยง 710.25(c): "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision and the information contained therein, to the best of my knowledge, is true, accurate, and complete. I also certify that I have intent to manufacture, import, or process the above chemical within 90 days of submission. I am aware it is unlawful to knowingly submit incomplete, false and/or misleading information, and there are significant criminal penalties for such unlawful conduct, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment."
