
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 711 - TSCA CHEMICAL DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 711.3 Definitions.
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

(3) If the site is owned by more than one company (company A owns 40 percent, company B owns 35 percent, and company C owns 25 percent), the company with the largest ownership interest in the site is the parent company. If a higher-level company in the ownership hierarchy owns more than one ownership company, then determine the entity with the largest ownership by considering the lower-level ownerships in combination (corporation x owns companies B and C, for a total ownership of 60 percent for the site).

(i) If the parent company is a U.S. company owned by another U.S. company, then the highest-level domestic company in the ownership hierarchy is the U.S. parent company. If the U.S. parent company has a higher-level foreign company in the ownership hierarchy, then the highest-level foreign company in the ownership hierarchy is the foreign parent company.

(ii) If the parent company is a foreign company, then the site is its own U.S. parent company and the foreign parent company is the highest-level foreign company in the ownership hierarchy.

(4) If the site is owned by a 50:50 joint venture or a cooperative, the joint venture or cooperative is its own parent company. If the site is owned by a U.S. joint venture or cooperative, the highest level of the joint venture or cooperative is the U.S. parent company. If the site is owned by a joint venture or cooperative outside the United States, the highest level of the joint venture or cooperative outside the United States is the foreign parent company.
