
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 711 - TSCA CHEMICAL DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 711.1 Scope, compliance, and enforcement.

(a) This subpart specifies reporting and recordkeeping procedures under section 8(a) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (15 U.S.C. 2607(a)) for certain manufacturers (including importers) of chemical substances. TSCA section 8(a) authorizes the EPA Administrator to require reporting of information necessary for the administration of TSCA.

(b) This part applies to the activities associated with the periodic update of information on a subset of the chemical substances included on the TSCA Inventory.

(c) TSCA section 15(3) makes it unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to submit information required under this part. In addition, TSCA section 15(3) makes it unlawful for any person to fail to keep, and permit access to, records required by this part. Section 16 of TSCA provides that any person who violates a provision of TSCA section 15 is liable to the United States for a civil penalty and may be criminally prosecuted. Pursuant to TSCA section 17, the Federal Government may seek judicial relief to compel submission of TSCA section 8(a) information and to otherwise restrain any violation of TSCA section 15. (EPA does not intend to concentrate its enforcement efforts on insignificant clerical errors in reporting.) TSCA section 11 allows for inspections to assure compliance, and the Administrator may by subpoena require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of reports, papers, documents, answers to questions, and other information that the Administrator deems necessary.

(d) Each person who reports under this part must maintain records that document information reported under this part and, in accordance with TSCA, permit access to, and the copying of, such records by EPA officials.
