
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 711 - TSCA CHEMICAL DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### § 711.6 Chemical substances for which information is not required.
###### Amendments.

(iii)EPA may amend the chemical substance list in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section on its own initiative or in response to a request from the public based on EPA's determination of whether the information in § 711.15(b)(4) is of low interest.

(A) Any person may request that EPA amend the chemical substance list in Table 2 in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section. Your request must be in writing and must be submitted to the address provided in 40 CFR 700.17(a). Please label your request as follows: Attention: TSCA Chemical Data Reporting-Partial Exemption Request. Requests must identify the chemical substance in question, as well as its CASRN or other chemical identification number as identified in § 711.15(b)(3)(i), and must contain a written rationale for the request that provides sufficient specific information, addressing the considerations listed in § 711.6(b)(2)(ii), including cites and relevant documents, to demonstrate to EPA that the collection of the information in § 711.15(b)(4) for the chemical substance in question either is or is not of low current interest. If a request related to a particular chemical substance is resubmitted, any subsequent request must clearly identify new information contained in the request. EPA may request other information that it believes necessary to evaluate the request. EPA will issue a written response to each request within 120 days of receipt of the request, and will maintain copies of these responses in a docket that will be established for each reporting cycle.

(B) As needed, the Agency will initiate rulemaking to make revisions to Table 2 in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.

(C) To assist EPA in reaching a decision regarding a particular request prior to a given principal reporting year, requests must be submitted to EPA no later than 12 months prior to the start of the next principal reporting year.
