
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 711 - TSCA CHEMICAL DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 711.10 Activities for which reporting is not required.
###### Amendments.

(ii)EPA may amend the exemptions list in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section on its own initiative or in response to a request from the public based on EPA's determination of whether the byproduct substance and process described meet the criteria explained in this paragraph (d)(1), based on the requirements and considerations listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section.

(A) Any person may request that EPA amend the chemical substance list in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section. Your request must be in writing and must be submitted to the address provided in 40 CFR 700.17(a). Please label your request as follows: Attention: TSCA Chemical Data Reporting-Byproduct Exemption Request. Requests must identify the manufacturing process and byproduct chemical substance in question, as well as its CASRN or other chemical identification number as identified in 40 CFR 711.15(b)(3)(i), and must contain a written rationale for the request that provides sufficient specific information, addressing the requirements and considerations listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, including citations and relevant documents, to demonstrate to EPA that the byproduct substance and process in question either does or does not meet the criteria explained in this paragraph (d)(1). If a request related to a particular byproduct substance and process is resubmitted, any subsequent request must clearly identify new information contained in the request. EPA may request other information that it believes necessary to evaluate the request. EPA will issue a written response to each request within 120 days of receipt of the request and will maintain copies of these responses in a docket that will be established for each reporting cycle.

(B) In making its determination whether this exemption should apply to a particular manufacturing process and related byproduct substance, the following two requirements must be met:
