
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 711 - TSCA CHEMICAL DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 711.15 Reporting information to EPA.
###### Industrial processing and use information.

(i)(A) A designation indicating the type of industrial processing or use operation(s) at each site that receives a reportable chemical substance from the submitter site directly or indirectly (whether the recipient site(s) are controlled by the submitter site or not). For each chemical substance, report the letters which correspond to the appropriate processing or use operation(s) listed in Table 4 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A). A particular designation may need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a submitter reports more than one sector (under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section) that applies to a given designation under this paragraph.

(B) A code indicating the sector(s) that best describe the industrial activities associated with each industrial processing or use operation reported under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section. For each chemical substance, report the code that corresponds to the appropriate sector(s) listed in Table 5 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B). A particular sector code may need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a submitter reports more than one function code (under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) of this section) that applies to a given sector code under this paragraph.

(C) For each sector reported under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section, the applicable code(s) from Table 6 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) must be selected to designate the function category(ies) that best represents the specific manner in which the chemical substance is used. For the 2020 submission period:
