
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 711 - TSCA CHEMICAL DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 711.15 Reporting information to EPA.
###### Company and site information.

(2)The following currently correct parent company and site information at the date of CDR submission must be reported for each site at which a reportable chemical substance is manufactured (including imported) above the applicable production volume threshold, as described in this section (see ยง 711.3 for the "site" for importers and special situations).

(i) The legal name, address, and Dun and Bradstreet D-U-N-S&#xAE; (D&B) number for the highest-level parent company located in the United States and, if one exists, for the highest-level foreign-based parent company. A submitter under this part must obtain a D&B number for the parent company if none exists and must report using the standardized conventions for the naming of a parent company as provided in the CDR Instructions for Reporting identified in ยง 711.35.

(ii) The name of a person who will serve as technical contact for the submitter company who will be able to answer questions about the information submitted by the company to EPA, and that technical contact person's full mailing address, telephone number, and email address.

(iii) The legal name and full street address of each site. A submitter under this part must include the appropriate D&B number for each site reported, and the county or parish (or other jurisdictional indicator) in which the site is located. A submitter under this part must obtain a D&B number for the site reported if none exists. For a co-manufacturing situation in which the contracting company initiates the report, the contracting company must report both the site controlling the contract and the producing company's site information.

(iv) The six-digit NAICS code for the site. A submitter under this part must include the appropriate six-digit NAICS code for each site reported.
