
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 711 - TSCA CHEMICAL DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### § 711.22 Duplicative reporting.
###### Co-manufactured chemicals.

(c)This part requires that only one report per site be submitted on each chemical substance described in § 711.5. However, both the contracting company and producing company are liable if no report is made. When a company contracts with a producing company to manufacture a chemical substance, and each party meets the definition of "manufacturer" as set forth in § 711.3, reporting of the co-manufactured chemical can be performed by one of the following methods:

(1) The contracting company initiates the required report for that site as the primary submitter. The contracting company must indicate on the report that this is a co-manufacturing situation, notify the producing company, and record the production volume domestically co-manufactured as set forth in § 711.15(b)(3) and processing and use information set forth in § 711.15(b)(4). Upon notification by the contracting company, the producing company must also record the production volume domestically co-manufactured and complete the rest of the report as prompted by e-CDRweb.

(2) Upon written agreement between the contracting company and the producing company, the producing company completes the full report for the co-manufactured chemical. The contracting company supplies the information not otherwise known to or reasonably ascertainable by the producing company.
