
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.145 Visibility protection.
####### Compliance determination,Continuous emission monitoring system.

(7)-(i)(A) At all times after the compliance date specified in paragraph (j)(5)(i) of this section, the owner/operator of the unit shall maintain, calibrate, and operate CEMS, in full compliance with the requirements found at 40 CFR part 75, to accurately measure SO, NO, diluent, and stack gas volumetric flow rate from the unit. All valid CEMS hourly data shall be used to determine compliance with the emission limitations for NOand SOin paragraph (j)(3) of this section. When the CEMS is out-of-control as defined by 40 CFR part 75, the CEMS data shall be treated as missing data and not used to calculate the emission average. Each required CEMS must obtain valid data for at least 90 percent of the unit operating hours, on an annual basis.

(B) The owner/operator of the unit shall comply with the quality assurance procedures for CEMS found in 40 CFR part 75. In addition to the requirements in part 75 of this chapter, relative accuracy test audits shall be calculated for both the NOand SOpounds per hour measurement and the heat input measurement. The CEMS monitoring data shall not be bias adjusted. Calculations of relative accuracy for lb/hour of NO, SO, and heat input shall be performed each time the CEMS undergo relative accuracy testing.
