
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 712 - CHEMICAL INFORMATION RULES
##### Subpart B - Manufacturers Reporting - Preliminary Assessment Information
###### § 712.30 Chemical lists and reporting periods.

(a)(1) Persons subject to this subpart B must submit a Preliminary Assessment Information Manufacturer's Report for each chemical substance or mixture that is listed or designated in this section.

(2) Unless a respondent has already prepared a Manufacturer's Report in conformity with conditions set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the information in each Manufacturer's Report must cover the respondent's latest complete corporate fiscal year as of the effective date. The effective date will be 30 days after thepublishes a rule amendment making the substance or mixture subject to this subpart B.

(3) Persons subject to this subpart B need not comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section if they meet either one of the following conditions:

(i)(A) The respondent has previously and voluntarily provided EPA with a Manufacturer's Report on a chemical substance or mixture subject to subpart B of this part, which contains data for a 1-year period ending no more than 3 years prior to the effective date described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Respondents meeting this condition must notify EPA by letter of their desire to have the voluntary submission used in lieu of a current data submission and must verify the completeness and current accuracy of the voluntarily submitted data. Such letters, sent in accordance with the method specified in § 712.28(d) to EPA, must contain the following language:

(B) Notification letters must be submitted in accordance with the method specified in § 712.28(d) prior to the reporting deadline.

(ii)(A) The respondent has previously submitted a Manufacturer's Report on a chemical substance or mixture subject to subpart B of this part to the Interagency Testing Committee, but not to EPA, and that Manufacturer's Report contained data for a 1-year period ending less than 3 years prior to the effective date described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Respondents meeting this condition must submit a copy of the Manufacture's Report, in accordance with the method specified in § 712.28(d) to EPA, and must submit an accompanying letter, also in accordance with the methods specified in § 712.28(d), notifying EPA of the respondent's intent that the submission be used in lieu of a current Manufacturer's Report. The notification letter must verify the completeness and current accuracy of the voluntarily submitted data. Such a letter must contain the following language:

(B) The submission must be made prior to the reporting deadline.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, chemical substances and designated mixtures will be added after a notice of proposed amendment of this subpart is published in theThere will be a 30 day public comment period on each notice; after consideration of the comments, a final amendment will identify the substances and mixtures added.

(c)(1) Chemical substances, mixtures, and categories of substances or mixtures that have been added by the Interagency Testing Committee, established under section 4(e) of TSCA, to the section 4(e) Priority List, for testing consideration by the Agency, will be added to this section 30 days after EPA issues for publication in thea rule amendment listing these chemical substances, mixtures and categories. A Preliminary Assessment Information-Manufacturer's Report must be submitted for each chemical substance and mixture within 60 days after the effective date of the listing. At the discretion of the Assistant Administrator for Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention, a listed substance, mixture or category may be withdrawn, for good cause, from the rule's reporting requirements prior to the effective date. Any information submitted showing why a substance, mixture or category should be removed from the rule must be received by EPA within 14 days after the date of publication of the notice under this paragraph. If a substance, mixture or category is removed, anotice announcing this decision will be published no later than the effective date of the amendment.

(2) You must submit the information using the method specified in § 712.28(d).

(d) Manufacturers and importers of the substances listed below must submit a Preliminary Assessment Information Manufacturer's Report for each site at which they manufacture or import each substance by the reporting date shown in the table below. The substances are listed in Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number order. Typically EPA lists the trivial or common name first, then, following the symbol "- -", EPA lists the substance by its TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory name. Whenever EPA lists a single name, the name may be either the TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory name, a trivial name, or a common name. Generally, when a single name is listed, it is the TSCA Chemical Substances Inventory name.

(e) Manufacturers and importers of the substances listed below by category must submit a Preliminary Assessment Information Manufacturers Report for each site at which they manufacture or import each substance by the reporting date shown in the table below. The categories are listed in alphabetic order with the chemical substances within each category listed by ascending numerical CAS number.
