
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 713 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE TSCA INVENTORY OF MERCURY SUPPLY, USE, AND TRADE
##### ยง 713.1 Purpose, scope, and compliance.

(a) This part specifies reporting and recordkeeping procedures under section 8(b)(10) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (15 U.S.C. 2607(b)(10)) for certain manufacturers (including importers) and processers of mercury as defined in section 8(b)(10)(A) to include elemental mercury and mercury compounds. Hereinafter "mercury" will refer to both elemental mercury and mercury compounds collectively, except where separately identified. Section 8(b)(10)(D) of TSCA authorizes the EPA Administrator to require reporting from any person who manufactures mercury or mercury-added products or otherwise intentionally uses mercury in a manufacturing process to carry out and publish in thean inventory of mercury supply, use, and trade in the United States. In administering this mercury inventory, EPA is directed to identify any manufacturing processes or products that intentionally add mercury and to recommend actions, including proposed revisions of Federal law or regulations, to achieve further reductions in mercury use. EPA intends to use the collected information to implement TSCA and shape the Agency's efforts to recommend actions, both voluntary and regulatory, to reduce the use of mercury in commerce. In so doing, the Agency will conduct timely evaluation and refinement of these reporting requirements so that they are efficient and non-duplicative for reporters.

(b) This part applies to the activities associated with the periodic publication of information on mercury supply, use, and trade in the United States. Except as described at ยง 713.7, the reporting requirements for mercury supply, use, and trade apply to the following activities:

(1) Activities undertaken with the purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual commercial advantage:

(i) Import of mercury;

(ii) Manufacture (other than import) of mercury;

(iii) Import of a mercury-added product;

(iv) Manufacture (other than import) of a mercury-added product; and

(v) Intentional use of mercury in a manufacturing process.

(2) Activities undertaken in relationship to those activities described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:

(i) Distribution in commerce, including domestic sale or transfer, of mercury;

(ii) Distribution in commerce, including domestic sale or transfer, of a mercury-added product;

(iii) Storage of mercury (including import);

(iv) Export of a mercury compound (unless specifically prohibited); and

(v) Export of a mercury-added product.

(c) Section 15(3) of TSCA makes it unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to submit information required under this part. In addition, TSCA section 15(3) makes it unlawful for any person to fail to: Establish or maintain records, or permit access to records required by this part. Section 16 of TSCA provides that any person who violates a provision of TSCA section 15 is liable to the United States for a civil penalty and may be criminally prosecuted. Pursuant to TSCA section 17, the Federal Government may seek judicial relief to compel submission of TSCA section 8 information and to otherwise restrain any violation of TSCA section 15.

(d) Each person who reports under this part must certify the accuracy and maintain records of the information reported under this part and, in accordance with TSCA, permit access to, and the copying of, such records by EPA officials.
