
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 712 - CHEMICAL INFORMATION RULES
##### Subpart B - Manufacturers Reporting - Preliminary Assessment Information
###### § 712.25 Exempt manufacturers and importers.

(a) Persons who manufactured or imported the chemical substance during the reporting period, solely for purposes of scientific experimentation, analysis, or research, including research or analysis for product development, are not subject to reporting under § 712.20.

(b) Persons who, during the reporting period, manufactured or imported fewer than 500 kilograms (1100 pounds) of the chemical substance at a single plant site are not subject to reporting for that site under § 712.20.

(c) Persons who qualify as small manufacturers (including importers) in respect to a specific chemical substance listed in § 712.30 are exempt. However, the exemption in this paragraph (c) does not apply with respect to any chemical in § 712.30 designated by an asterisk. A manufacturer is qualified as small and is exempt from submitting a report under this subpart for a chemical substance manufactured at a particular plant site if it meets the definition for small manufacturer in § 704.3 of this chapter.

(d) Persons are not subject to reporting under § 712.20 if they manufactured or imported the chemical substance during the reporting period only in the following forms:

(1) As a byproduct that was not used or sold or that was formed as described in 40 CFR 710.4(d) (3) through (7).

(2) As a non-isolated intermediate.

(3) As an impurity.
