
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 716 - HEALTH AND SAFETY DATA REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 716.35 Submission of lists of studies.
####### Studies previously sent to Federal agencies without confidentiality claims.

(4)A list of unpublished studies which have been sent to a Federal Agency with no claims of confidentiality. The submission must for each study: Identify the study by title, state the name and address to whom the study was sent, and the month and year in which the study was submitted. Any study identified will be treated as if it were submitted under section 8(d) and will be available for public disclosure under section 14(b) of TSCA. Persons subject to this requirement may submit either a list of unpublished health and safety studies previously submitted to any Federal agency without claims of confidentiality in accordance with ยง 716.35(a)(4), or copies of each such study in accordance with ยง 716.30.

(b) Submission under paragraph (a) of this section must be identified either on the face of the study or otherwise by the applicable chemical name and CAS number (if any) listed in ยง 716.120(a) (1) and (2), and must be accompanied by a cover letter containing the name, job title, address and telephone numbers of the submitting official, and the name and address of the manufacturing or processing establishment on whose behalf the submission is made.

(c) Persons must use the CISS tool to complete and submit all data, reports, and other information required by 40 CFR part 716, via CDX. Submission requires registration with CDX, and must be made only as set forth in this section.
