
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.145 Visibility protection.
####### Notifications.

(11)All notifications required under this section shall be submitted by the owner/operator to the Director, Enforcement Division (Mail Code ENF-2-1), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 9, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, California 94105-3901.

(i) By March 31, 2017, the owner/operator shall submit notification by letter whether it will comply with the emission limits in paragraph (j)(3) of this section or whether it will comply with the emission limits in paragraph (j)(4) of this section. In the event that the owner/operator does not submit timely and proper notification by March 31, 2017, the owner/operator may not choose to comply with the alternative emission limits in paragraph (j)(4) of this section and shall comply with the emission limits in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.

(ii) The owner/operator shall submit notification of commencement of construction of any equipment which is being constructed to comply with either the NOor SOemission limits in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.

(iii) The owner/operator shall submit semiannual progress reports on construction of any such equipment.

(iv) The owner/operator shall submit notification of initial startup of any such equipment.

(v) The owner/operator shall submit notification of its intent to comply with the PMemission limit in paragraph (j)(4)(iii) of this section within one hundred twenty (120) days following the compliance deadline specified in paragraph (j)(6) of this section. The notification shall include results of the initial performance test and the resulting applicable emission limit.
