
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 717 - RECORDS AND REPORTS OF ALLEGATIONS THAT CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES CAUSE SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE REACTIONS TO HEALTH OR THE ENVIRONMENT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 717.10 Allegations subject to this part.

(a) Allegations subject to this part are those allegations received on or after November 21, 1983 by persons subject to this part.

(b) Allegations subject to this part are those that:

(1) Are submitted either in writing and are signed by the alleger, or are submitted orally. In the case of an oral allegation, the firm must transcribe the allegation into written form, or it must inform the alleger that such allegation may be subject to this part and request that the alleger submit such allegation to the firm in writing and signed.

(2) Implicate a substance that caused the stated significant adverse reaction by one of the following:

(i) Naming the specific substance.

(ii) Naming a mixture that contains a specific substance.

(iii) Naming an article that contains a specific substance.

(iv) Naming a company process or operation in which substances are involved.

(v) Identifying an effluent, emission, or other discharge from a site of manufacturing, processing or distribution of a substance.

(c) Allegations subject to this part may be made to a firm by any person, such as an employee of the firm, individual consumer, a neighbor of the firm's plant, another firm on behalf of its employees or an organization on behalf of its members.

(d) EPA intends that firms should, to the maximum practical extent, provide allegers with information regarding the ultimate disposition of their allegations. For example, firms could provide a brief notice to the alleger stating that a record was created under this part based upon their allegation, or that a record was not created and briefly explain the reasons why not.
