
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 717 - RECORDS AND REPORTS OF ALLEGATIONS THAT CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES CAUSE SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE REACTIONS TO HEALTH OR THE ENVIRONMENT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 717.12 Significant adverse reactions that must be recorded.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, significant adverse reactions to human health that must be recorded include but are not limited to:

(1) Long-lasting or irreversible damage, such as cancer or birth defects.

(2) Partial or complete impairment of bodily functions, such as reproductive disorders, neurological disorders or blood disorders.

(3) An impairment of normal activities experienced by all or most of the persons exposed at one time.

(4) An impairment of normal activities which is experienced each time an individual is exposed.

(b) Firms are not required to record significant adverse reactions that are known human effects as defined in ยง 717.3(c).

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, significant adverse reactions to the environment that must be recorded, even if restricted to the environs of a plant or disposal site, include but are not limited to:

(1) Gradual or sudden changes in the composition of animal life or plant life, including fungal or microbial organisms, in an area.

(2) Abnormal number of deaths of organisms (e.g., fish kills).

(3) Reduction of the reproductive success or the vigor of a species.

(4) Reduction in agricultural productivity, whether crops or livestock.

(5) Alterations in the behavior or distribution of a species.

(6) Long lasting or irreversible contamination of components of the physical environment, especially in the case of ground water, and surface water and soil resources that have limited self-cleansing capability.

(d) Firms are not required to record a significant adverse reaction to the environment if the alleged cause of that significant adverse reaction can be directly attributable to an accidental spill or other accidental discharge, emission exceeding permitted limits, or other incident of environmental contamination that has been reported to the Federal Government under any applicable authority.
