
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 717 - RECORDS AND REPORTS OF ALLEGATIONS THAT CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES CAUSE SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE REACTIONS TO HEALTH OR THE ENVIRONMENT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 717.15 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Content of records.

(b)The record shall consist of the following:

(1) The original allegation as received.

(2) An abstract of the allegation and other pertinent information as follows:

(i) The name and address of the plant site which received the allegation.

(ii) The date the allegation was received at that site.

(iii) The implicated substance, mixture, article, company process or operation, or site discharge.

(iv) A description of the alleger (e.g., "company employee," "individual consumer," "plant neighbor"). If the allegation involves a health effect, the sex and year of birth of the individual should be recorded, if ascertainable.

(v) A description of the alleged health effect(s). The description must relate how the effect(s) became known and the route of exposure, if explained in the allegation.

(vi) A description of the nature of the alleged environmental effect(s), identifying the affected plant and/or animal species, or contaminated portion of the physical environment.

(3) The results of any self-initiated investigation with respect to an allegation. (EPA does not require persons subject to this part to investigate allegations received, and no provision of this part shall be construed to imply that EPA recommends, encourages or requires such investigation.)

(4) Copies of any further required records or reports relating to the allegation. For example, if an employee allegation results in a requirement for the firm to record the case on Occupational Safety and Health Form 101 or appropriate substitute (see 29 CFR part 1904 for requirements under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970), a copy of that OSHA record must be included in the allegation record.
