
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.145 Visibility protection.
####### Alternative reporting requirements.

(13)If the owner/operator chooses to comply with the emission limits of paragraph (j)(4) of this section, the owner/operator shall submit the reports listed in this paragraph (j)(13) in lieu of the reports contained in paragraph (j)(12) of this section. All reports required under this paragraph (j)(13) shall be submitted by the owner/operator to the Director, Enforcement Division (Mail Code ENF-2-1), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 9, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, California 94105-3901. All reports required under this paragraph (j)(13) shall be submitted within 30 days after the applicable compliance date(s) in paragraph (j)(6) of this section and at least semiannually thereafter, within 30 days after the end of a semiannual period. The owner/operator may submit reports more frequently than semiannually for the purposes of synchronizing reports required under this section with other reporting requirements, such as the title V monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), but at no point shall the duration of a semiannual period exceed six months.

(i) The owner/operator shall submit a report that lists the daily rolling 30-boiler operating day emission rates for NO.

(ii) The owner/operator shall submit excess emissions reports for NOlimits. Excess emissions means emissions that exceed the emission limit specified in paragraph (j)(4) of this section. The reports shall include the magnitude, date(s), and duration of each period of excess emissions; specific identification of each period of excess emissions that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the unit; the nature and cause of any malfunction (if known); and the corrective action taken or preventative measures adopted.

(iii) The owner/operator shall submit CEMS performance reports, to include dates and duration of each period during which the CEMS was inoperative (except for zero and span adjustments and calibration checks), reason(s) why the CEMS was inoperative and steps taken to prevent recurrence, and any CEMS repairs or adjustments.

(iv) The owner/operator shall submit the results of any relative accuracy test audits performed during the two preceding calendar quarters.

(v) When no excess emissions have occurred or the CEMS has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted during the reporting period, the owner/operator shall state such information in the semiannual report.

(vi) The owner/operator shall submit results of any PMstack tests conducted for demonstrating compliance with the PMlimit specified in paragraph (j)(4) of this section.
