
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Applicability
###### ยง 720.22 Persons who must report.

(a)(1) Any person who intends to manufacture a new chemical substance in the United States for commercial purposes must submit a notice unless the substance is excluded under ยง 720.30.

(2) If a person contracts with a manufacturer to manufacture or produce a new chemical substance, and (i) the manufacturer manufactures or produces the substance exclusively for that person, and (ii) that person specifies the identity of the substance, and controls the total amount produced and the basic technology for the plant process, that person must submit the notice. If it is unclear who must report, EPA should be contacted to determine who must submit the notice.

(3) Only manufacturers that are incorporated, licensed, or doing business in the United States may submit a notice.

(b)(1) Any person who intends to import a new chemical substance into the United States for commercial purposes must submit a notice, unless the substance is excluded under ยง 720.30 or unless the substance is imported as part of an article.

(2) When several persons are involved in an import transaction, the notice must be submitted by the principal importer. If no one person fits the principal importer definition in a particular transaction, the importer should contact EPA to determine who must submit the notice for that transaction.
