
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Applicability
###### ยง 720.25 Determining whether a chemical substance is on the Inventory.
####### 3

() Whether the importer believes that the substance has already been used commercially, in any country, for the same purpose or application that the importer is intending.

(iv) A specific description of the major intended application or use of the substance.

(v) An infrared spectrum of the substance, or alternative spectra or other data which identify the substance if infrared analysis is not suitable for the substance or does not yield a reasonable amount of structural information. When using alternative spectra or instrumental analysis, the person must submit a spectrum or instrumental readout for the substance.

(vi) The estimated date (month/year) in which the person intends to submit a Premanufacture Notice (PMN) for this substance if EPA informs the notice submitter that the substance is not on the Inventory.

(vii) The address of the facility under the control of the submitter at which the manufacture or processing of the substance would most likely occur. For an imported substance, the facility under the control of the importer at which processing of the substance would likely occur, if any.

(viii)(A) For substances intended to be manufactured in the United States, a description of the most probable manufacturing process that would be used by the submitter to produce the substance for non-exempt commercial purposes.

(B) For substances intended to be imported, a brief description of how the submitter is most likely to process or use the substance for a commercial purpose. If the substance is not expected to be processed or used at any facility under the importer's control, a statement to this effect must be included along with a description of how the substance will be processed or used at sites controlled by others, if this information is known or reasonably ascertainable.

(3)(i) If an importer cannot provide the chemical identity information required by paragraph (b)(2) (i) and (v) of this section because it is claimed confidential by its foreign manufacturer or supplier, the foreign manufacturer or supplier must supply the required information directly to EPA in accordance with ยง 720.45(a) (1), (2), and (3) and reference the importer's notice. If the appropriate supporting document from the foreign party is not received within 30 days after EPA receives the importer's notice, the notice will be considered incomplete.

(ii) If a manufacturer cannot provide all of the required information in accordance with ยง 720.45(a) (1), (2), and (3) because the new chemical substance is manufactured using a reactant that has a specific chemical identity claimed as confidential by its supplier, the notice must contain chemical identity information that is as complete as known by the manufacturer. In addition, a letter of support for the notice must then be sent to EPA by the chemical supplier of the confidential reactant, providing the specific chemical identity of the proprietary reactant. The letter of support must reference the manufacturer's notice. If the appropriate supporting document from the supplier is not received within 30 days after EPA receives the manufacturer's notice, the notice will be considered incomplete.
