
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Applicability
###### § 720.30 Chemicals not subject to notification requirements.

The following substances are not subject to the notification requirements of this part:

(a) Any substance which is not a "chemical substance" as defined in § 720.3(e).

(b) Any mixture as defined in § 720.3(u).

(c) Any new chemical substance which will be manufactured in small quantities solely for research and development under § 720.36.

(d) Any new chemical substance which will be manufactured solely for test-marketing purposes under an exemption granted under § 720.38.

(e) Any new chemical substance manufactured solely for export if, when the substance is distributed in commerce:

(1) The substance is labeled in accordance with section 12(a)(1)(B) of the Act.

(2) The manufacturer knows that the person to whom the substance is being distributed intends to export it or process it solely for export as defined in § 721.3 of this chapter.

(f) Any new chemical substance which is manufactured under the terms of a rule promulgated under section 5(h)(4) of the Act.

(g) Any byproduct if its only commercial purpose is for use by public or private organizations that (1) burn it as a fuel, (2) dispose of it as a waste, including in a landfill or for enriching soil, or (3) extract component chemical substances from it for commercial purposes. (This exclusion only applies to the byproduct; it does not apply to the component substances extracted from the byproduct.)

(h) The chemical substances described below: (Although they are manufactured for commercial purposes under the Act, they are not manufactured for distribution in commerce as chemical substances per se and have no commercial purpose separate from the substance, mixture, or article of which they are a part.)

(1) Any impurity.

(2) Any byproduct which is not used for commercial purposes.

(3) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction that occurs incidental to exposure of another chemical substance, mixture, or article to environmental factors such as air, moisture, microbial organisms, or sunlight.

(4) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction that occurs incidental to storage or disposal of another chemical substance, mixture, or article.

(5) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction that occurs upon end use of another chemical substance, mixture, or article such as an adhesive, paint, miscellaneous cleanser or other housekeeping product, fuel additive, water softening and treatment agent, photographic film, battery, match, or safety flare, and which is not itself manufactured for distribution in commerce or for use as an intermediate.

(6) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction that occurs upon use of curable plastic or rubber molding compounds, inks, drying oils, metal finishing compounds, adhesives, or paints, or any other chemical substance formed during the manufacture of an article destined for the marketplace without further chemical change of the chemical substance except for those chemical changes that occur as described elsewhere in this paragraph.

(7) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction that occurs when (i) a stabilizer, colorant, odorant, antioxidant, filler, solvent, carrier, surfactant, plasticizer, corrosion inhibitor, antifoamer or defoamer, dispersant, precipitation inhibitor, binder, emulsifier, deemulsifier, dewatering agent, agglomerating agent, adhesion promoter, flow modifier, pH neutralizer, sequesterant, coagulant, flocculant, fire retardant, lubricant, chelating agent, or quality control reagent functions as intended, or (ii) a chemical substance, which is intended solely to impart a specific physiochemical characteristic, functions as intended.

(8) Any nonisolated intermediate.

(i) Any chemical substance which is manufactured solely for non-commercial research and development purposes. Non-commercial research and development purposes include scientific experimentation, research, or analysis conducted by academic, government, or independent not-for-profit research organizations (e.g., universities, colleges, teaching hospitals, and research institutes), unless the activity is for eventual commercial purposes.
