
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Notice Form
###### ยง 720.45 Information that must be included in the notice form.

Each person who submits a notice must include the information specified in the notice form to the extent it is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter. However, no person is required to include information which relates solely to exposure of human or ecological populations outside of the United States. The notice form requires the following information relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, and disposal of the new chemical substance:

(a)(1) The specific chemical identity of the substance that the person intends to manufacture or import, which includes the following:

(i) The currently correct Chemical Abstracts (CA) name for the substance, based on the Ninth Collective Index (9CI) of CA nomenclature rules and conventions, and consistent with listings for similar substances in the Inventory. For each substance having a chemical composition that can be represented by a specific, complete chemical structure diagram (a Class 1 substance), a CA Index Name must be provided. For each chemical substance that cannot be fully represented by a complete, specific chemical structure diagram (a Class 2 substance), or if the substance is a polymer, a CA Index Name or CA Preferred Name must be provided (whichever is appropriate based on CA 9CI nomenclature rules and conventions). In addition, for a Class 2 substance, the notice must identify the immediate chemical precursors and reactants by specific chemical name and Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number (CASRN), if the number is available. Tradenames or generic names of chemical precursors or reactants are not acceptable as substitutes for specific chemical names.

(ii) The currently correct CASRN for the substance if a CASRN already exists for the substance.

(iii) For a Class 1 substance and for any Class 2 substance for which a definite molecular formula is known or reasonably ascertainable, the correct molecular formula.

(iv) For a Class 1 substance, a complete, correct chemical structure diagram; for a Class 2 substance or polymer, a correct representative or partial chemical structure diagram, as complete as can be known, if one can be reasonably ascertained.

(2) For a polymer, the submitter must also report the following:

(i) The specific chemical name and CASRN, if the number is available, of each monomer and other reactant used, at any weight percent, to manufacture the polymer. Tradenames or generic names of chemical reactants or monomers are not acceptable as substitutes for specific chemical names.

(ii) The typical percent by weight of each monomer and other reactant in the polymer (weight of the monomer or other reactant expressed as a percentage of the weight of the polymeric chemical substance manufactured), and the maximum residual amount of each monomer present in the polymer.

(iii) For monomers and other reactants used at 2 weight percent or less (based on the dry weight of the polymer manufactured), indicate on the PMN form any such monomers and other reactants that should be included as part of the polymer description on the Inventory, where the weight percent is based on either (A) the weight of monomer or other reactant actually charged to the reaction vessel, or (B) the minimum weight of monomer or other reactant required in theory to account for the actual weight of monomer or other reactant molecules or fragments chemically incorporated (chemically combined) in the polymeric substance manufactured.

(iv) For a determination that 2 weight percent or less of a monomer or other reactant is incorporated (chemically combined) in a polymeric substance manufactured, as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, analytical data or appropriate theoretical calculations (if it can be documented that analytical measurement is not feasible or not necessary) to support this determination must be maintained at the site of manufacture or import of the polymer.

(v) Measured or estimated values of the minimum number-average molecular weight of the polymer and the amount of low molecular weight species below 500 and below 1,000 molecular weight, with a description of how the measured or estimated values were obtained.

(3) The person must use one of the following two methods to develop or obtain the specified chemical identity information reported under paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section and must identify the method used in the notice:
