
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Notice Form
###### ยง 720.40 General.
####### Agency or joint submissions.

(e)(1) A manufacturer (including importer) may designate an agent to assist in submitting the notice. If so, only the manufacturer (including importer), and not the agent, signs the certification on the form.

(2) A manufacturer may authorize another person, (e.g., a supplier or a toll manufacturer) to report some of the information required in the notice to EPA on its behalf. The manufacturer should indicate in a cover letter accompanying the notice which information will be supplied by another person and must identify that other person as a joint submitter where indicated on their notice form. The other person supplying information (i.e., the joint submitter) may submit the information to EPA using either the notice form or a Letter of Support, except that if the joint submitter is not incorporated, licensed, or doing business in the United States, the joint submitter must submit the information to EPA in a Letter of Support only, not in a notice form. The joint submitter must indicate in the notice or Letter of Support the identity of the manufacturer. Any person who submits a notice form or Letter of Support for a joint submission must sign and certify the notice form or Letter of Support.

(3) Only the Authorized Official (AO) of a submitting company can certify initial notices and submit all TSCA section 5 documents.

(i) An AO can authorize other persons to be non-certifying AOs who may conduct all section 5 business on behalf of the submitting company except for certifying and submitting initial notices to EPA via CDX.

(ii) An AO may grant access to a support registrant to edit section 5 documents.
