
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Notice Form
###### ยง 720.50 Submission of test data and other data concerning the health and environmental effects of a substance.
####### Other data concerning the health and environmental effects of the new chemical substance that are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any person who submits a notice must describe the following data, including any data from a health and safety study, if the data are related to the effects on health or the environment of any manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, or disposal of the new chemical substance, of any mixture or article containing the new chemical substance, or of any combination of such activities:

(i) Any data, other than test data, in the submitter's possession or control.

(ii) Any data, including test data, which are not in the submitter's possession or control, but which are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter. For the purposes of this section, data are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter if the data are known to any of its employees or other agents who are associated with the research and development, test marketing, or commercial marketing of the substance.

(2) Data that must be described include data concerning the new chemical substance in a pure, technical grade, or formulated form.

(3) The description of data reported under this paragraph must include:

(i) If the data appear in the open scientific literature, a standard literature citation, which includes the author, title, periodical name, date of publication, volume, and pages.

(ii) If the data are not contained in the open scientific literature, a description of the type of data and summary of the results, if available, and the names and addresses of persons the submitter believes may have possession or control of the data.

(4) All data described by this paragraph are subject to these requirements, regardless of their age, quality, or results; and regardless of whether they are complete at the time the notice is submitted.

(c) [Reserved]
