
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Notice Form
###### ยง 720.45 Information that must be included in the notice form.
####### Method 2.

(ii)Obtain the correct chemical identity information required by paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) from any source. The notice will be incomplete according to ยง 720.65(c)(1)(vi) if the person uses Method 2 and any chemical identity information is determined to be incorrect by EPA.

(4) If an importer submitting the notice cannot provide all the information specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section because it is claimed as confidential by the foreign supplier of the substance, the importer must have the foreign supplier follow the procedures in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and provide the correct chemical identity information specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section directly to EPA in a joint submission or as a letter of support to the notice, which clearly references the importer's notice and PMN User Fee Identification Number. The statutory review process will commence upon receipt of both the notice and the complete, correct information.

(5) If a manufacturer cannot provide all the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section because the new chemical substance is manufactured using a reactant having a specific chemical identity claimed as confidential by its supplier, the manufacturer must submit a notice directly to EPA containing all the information known by the manufacturer about the chemical identity of the reported substance and its proprietary reactant. In addition, the manufacturer must ensure that the supplier of the confidential reactant submit a letter of support directly to EPA providing the specific chemical identity of the confidential reactant, including the CAS number, if available, and the appropriate PMN or exemption number, if applicable. The letter of support must reference the manufacturer's name and PMN Fee Identification Number. The statutory review period will commence upon receipt of both the notice and the letter of support.

(b) The impurities anticipated to be present in the substance by name, CAS Registry number, and weight percent of the total substance.

(c) Known synonyms or trade names of the new chemical substance.

(d) A description of the byproducts resulting from the manufacture, processing, use, and disposal of the new chemical substance.

(e) The estimated maximum amount to be manufactured during the first year of production and the estimated maximum amount to be manufactured during any 12-month period during the first three years of production.

(f) A description of intended categories of use by function and application, the estimated percent of production volume devoted to each category of use, and the percent of the new substance in the formulation for each commercial or consumer use.

(g) For sites controlled by the submitter:

(1) The identity of sites where the new substance will be manufactured, processed, or used.

(2) A process description of each manufacture, processing, and use operation which includes a diagram of the major unit operations and chemical conversions, the identity and entry point of all feedstocks, and the points of release of the new chemical substance.

(3) Worker exposure information, including worker activities, physical form of the new substance to which workers may be exposed, the number of workers, and the duration of activities.

(4) Information on release of the new substance to the environment, including the quantity and media of release and type of control technology used.

(h) For sites not controlled by the submitter, a description of each type of processing and use operation involving the new chemical substance, including identification of the estimated number of processing or use sites, situations in which worker exposure to and/or environmental release of the new chemical substance will occur, the number of workers exposed and the duration of exposure, and controls which limit worker exposure and environmental release.

(i) Any safety data sheet already developed for the new chemical substance, including draft safety data sheets.
