
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Notice Form
###### ยง 720.50 Submission of test data and other data concerning the health and environmental effects of a substance.
####### Test data on the new chemical substance in the possession or control of the submitter.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each notice must contain all test data in the submitter's possession or control which are related to the effects on health or the environment of any manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, or disposal of the new chemical substance or any mixture or article containing the new chemical substance, or any combination of such activities. This includes test data concerning the new chemical substance in a pure, technical grade, or formulated form.

(2) A full report or standard literature citation must be submitted for the following types of test data:

(i) Health effects data.

(ii) Ecological effects data.

(iii) Physical and chemical properties data.

(iv) Environmental fate characteristics.

(v) Monitoring data and other test data related to human exposure to or environmental release of the chemical substance.

(3)(i) If the data do not appear in the open scientific literature, the submitter must provide a full report. A full report includes the experimental methods and materials, results, discussion and data analysis, conclusions, references, and the name and address of the laboratory that developed the data.

(ii) If the data appear in the open scientific literature, the submitter need only provide a standard literature citation. A standard literature citation includes author, title, periodical name, date of publication, volume, and page numbers.

(4)(i) If a study, report, or test is incomplete when a person submits a notice, the submitter must identify the nature and purpose of the study; name and address of the laboratory developing the data; progress to date; types of data collected; significant preliminary results; and anticipated completion date.

(ii) If a test or experiment is completed before the notice review period ends, the person must submit the study, report, or test to the address listed on the notice form, as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, within ten days of receiving it, but no later than five days before the end of the review period. If the test or experiment is completed during the last five days of the review period, the submitter must immediately inform its EPA contact for that notice by telephone.

(5) For test data in the submitter's possession or control which are not listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a person is not required to submit a complete report. The person must submit a summary of the data. If EPA so requests, the person must submit a full report within ten days of the request, but no later than five days before the end of the review period.

(6) All test data described by paragraph (a) are subject to these requirements, regardless of their age, quality, or results.
