
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart E - Confidentiality and Public Access to Information
###### ยง 720.85 Chemical identity.
####### Claims applicable to the period after commencement of manufacture.

(b)(1) Any claim of confidentiality under paragraph (a) of this section is applicable only until the substance is manufactured for commercial purposes and becomes eligible for inclusion on the Inventory. To maintain the confidential status of the chemical identity when the substance is added to the Inventory, a submitter must reassert the confidentiality claim and substantiate the claim in the notice of commencement of manufacture required under ยง 720.102. A submitter may not claim the chemical identity confidential for the period after commencement of manufacture unless the submitter claimed the chemical identity confidential for the period prior to commencement of manufacture under paragraph (a) of this section.

(2)(i) A person who believes that public disclosure of the fact that anyone manufactures the new chemical substance for commercial purposes would reveal confidential business information may assert a claim of confidentiality under this paragraph.

(ii) If the notice includes a health and safety study concerning the new chemical substance, and if the claim for confidentiality with respect to the chemical identity is denied in accordance with ยง 720.90(c), EPA will deny a claim asserted under this paragraph.

(3) Any person who asserts a confidentiality claim for chemical identity must:

(i) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section regarding submission of a generic name.
