
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart E - Confidentiality and Public Access to Information
###### ยง 720.85 Chemical identity.
####### bona fide

(ii) Publication of a generic name on the public Inventory does not create a category for purposes of the Inventory. Any person who has aintent to manufacture a chemical substance which is described by a generic name on the public Inventory may submit an inquiry to EPA under ยง 720.25(b) to determine whether the particular chemical substance is included on the confidential Inventory.

(iii) Upon receipt of a request described in ยง 720.25(b), EPA may require the submitter which originally asserted confidentiality for a chemical substance to submit to EPA the information listed in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.

(iv) Failure to submit any of the information required under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section within ten days of a request by EPA under this paragraph is a waiver of the original submitter's confidentiality claim. In this event, EPA may place the specific chemical identity on the public Inventory without further notice to the original submitter.

(6) If a submitter asserts a claim of confidentiality under this paragraph, EPA will examine the generic chemical name proposed by the submitter.

(i) If EPA determines that the generic name proposed by the submitter is only as generic as necessary to protect the confidential identity of the particular chemical substance, EPA will place that generic name on the public Inventory.

(ii) If EPA determines that the generic name proposed by the submitter is more generic than necessary to protect the confidential identity, EPA will propose in writing, for review by the submitter, an alternative generic name that will reveal the chemical identity of the chemical substance to the maximum extent possible.

(iii) If the generic name proposed by EPA is acceptable to the submitter, EPA will place that generic name on the public Inventory.

(iv) If the generic name proposed by EPA is not acceptable to the submitter, the submitter must explain in detail why disclosure of that generic name would reveal confidential business information and propose another generic name which is only as generic as necessary to protect the confidential identity. If EPA does not receive a response from the submitter within 30 days after the submitter receives the proposed name, EPA will place EPA's chosen generic name on the public Inventory. If the submitter does provide the information requested, EPA will review the response. If the submitter's proposed generic name is acceptable, EPA will publish that generic name on the public Inventory. If the submitter's proposed generic name is not acceptable, EPA will notify the submitter of EPA's choice of a generic name. Thirty days after this notification, EPA will place the chosen generic name on the public Inventory.
