
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart E - Confidentiality and Public Access to Information
###### § 720.80 General provisions.

(a) A person may assert a claim of confidentiality for any information which he or she submits to EPA under this part.

(b) Any claim of confidentiality must accompany the information when it is submitted to EPA.

(1)(i) For information submitted on the notice form, the claim(s) must be asserted on the form in the manner prescribed on the notice form.

(ii) When a person submits information in an attachment, the claim(s) must be asserted in the attachment as described on the notice form.

(2) If any information is claimed as confidential, the person must submit, in addition to the copies specified by § 720.40, a sanitized copy of the notice form (or electronic submission) and any attachments.

(i) The notice and attachments must be complete. The submitter must designate that information which is claimed as confidential in the manner prescribed on the notice form, via EPA's e-PMN software. See § 720.40(a)(2)(iv) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software.

(ii) The sanitized copy must be complete except that all information claimed as confidential in the original must be deleted. EPA will place this sanitized copy in the public file.

(iii) If the person does not provide the sanitized copy, or information in a health and safety study (except information claimed as confidential in accordance with § 720.90), the submission will be deemed incomplete and the notice review period will not begin until EPA receives the sanitized copy or the health and safety study information is included, in accordance with § 720.65(c)(1)(vii).

(c) EPA will disclose information that is subject to a claim of confidentiality asserted under this section only to the extent permitted by the Act, this subpart, and part 2 of this title.

(d) If a notice submitter does not assert a claim of confidentiality for information at the time it is submitted to EPA, EPA may make the information public and place it in the public file without further notice to the submitter.
