
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart E - Confidentiality and Public Access to Information
###### ยง 720.85 Chemical identity.
####### Claims applicable to the period prior to commencement of manufacture.

(a)(1)(i) A person who submits information to EPA under this part may assert a claim of confidentiality for the chemical identity of the new chemical substance. This claim will apply only to the period prior to the commencement of manufacture for commercial purposes. A submitter may assert this claim only if the submitter believes that public disclosure prior to commencement of manufacture of the fact that anyone intends to manufacture the specific chemical substance for commercial purposes would reveal confidential business information.

(ii) If the notice includes a health and safety study concerning the new chemical substance and if the claim for confidentiality with respect to the chemical identity is denied in accordance with ยง 720.90(c), EPA will deny a claim asserted under this paragraph.

(2) Any person who asserts a claim of confidentiality for chemical identity under this paragraph must provide one of the following items at the time the notice is submitted:

(i) The generic name which was accepted by EPA in the prenotice consultation conducted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(ii) One generic name that is only as generic as necessary to protect the confidential chemical identity of the particular chemical substance. The name should reveal the specific chemical identity to the maximum extent possible. The generic name will be subject to EPA review and approval at the time a notice of commencement is submitted.

(3)(i) Any person who intends to assert a claim of confidentiality for the chemical identity of a new chemical substance may seek a determination by EPA of an appropriate generic name for the substance before submitting a notice. For this purpose, the person should submit to EPA:

(A) The chemical identity of the substance.

(B) A proposed generic name(s) which in only as generic as necessary to protect the confidential chemical identity of the new chemical substance. The name(s) should reveal the chemical identity of the substance to the maximum extent possible.

(ii) Within 30 days, EPA will inform the submitter either that one of the proposed generic names is adequate or that none is adequate and further consultation is necessary.

(4) If a submitter claims chemical identity to be confidential under this paragraph, and if the submitter complies with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, EPA will issue for publication in thenotice described in ยง 720.70 the generic name proposed by the submitter or one agreed upon by EPA and the submitter.
