
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart D - Disposition of Notices
###### ยง 720.75 Notice review period.
####### Extension of notice review period.

(c)(1) At any time during the notice review period, EPA may determine that good cause exists to extend the notice review period specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) If EPA makes such a determination, EPA will:

(i) Notify the submitter that EPA is extending the notice review period for a specified length of time, and state the reasons for the extension.

(ii) Issue a notice for publication in thewhich states that EPA is extending the notice review period and gives the reasons for the extension.

(3) The initial extension may be for a period of up to 90 days. If the initial extension is for less than 90 days, EPA may make additional extensions. However, the total period of extensions may not exceed 90 days for any notice.

(4) The following are examples of situations in which EPA may find that good cause exists for extending the notice review period:

(i) EPA has reviewed the notice and determined that there is a significant possibility that the chemical substance will be regulated under section 5(e) or section 5(f) of the Act, but EPA is unable to initiate regulatory action within the initial 90-day period.

(ii) EPA has reviewed the submission and is seeking additional information.

(iii) EPA has received significant additional information during the notice review period.

(iv) The submitter has failed to correct a notice after receiving EPA's request under ยง 720.65(b).
