
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart E - Confidentiality and Public Access to Information
###### ยง 720.85 Chemical identity.
####### bona fide

(ii) Agree that EPA may disclose to a person with aintent to manufacture the chemical substance the fact that the particular chemical substance is included on the confidential Inventory for purposes of notification under section 5(a)(1)(A) of the Act.

(iii) Have available for the particular chemical substance, and agree to furnish to EPA upon request:

(A) An elemental analysis.

(B) Either an X-ray diffraction pattern (for inorganic substances), a mass spectrum (for most other substances), or an infrared spectrum of the particular chemical substance, or if such data do not resolve uncertainties with respect to the identity of the chemical substance, additional or alternative spectra or other data to identify the chemical substance.

(iv) Provide a detailed written substantiation of the claim, by answering the following questions:

(A) What harmful effects to your competitive position, if any, do you think would result if EPA publishes on the Inventory the identity of the chemical substance? How could a competitor use such information given the fact that the identity of the substance otherwise would appear on the Inventory of chemical substances with no link between the substance and your company or industry? How substantial would the harmful effects of disclosure be? What is the casual relationship between the disclosure and the harmful effects?

(B) For what period of time should confidential treatment be given? Until a specific date, the occurrence of a specific event, or permanently? Why?

(C) Has the chemical substance been patented? If so, have you granted licenses to others with respect to the patent as it applies to the chemical substance? If the chemical substance has been patented and therefore disclosed through the patent, why should it be treated as confidential for purposes of the Inventory?

(D) Has the identity of the chemical substance been kept confidential to the extent that your competitors do not know it is being manufactured for a commercial purpose by anyone?

(E) Is the fact that someone is manufacturing this chemical substance for commercial purposes available to the public, e.g., in technical journals or other publications; in libraries; or in State, local, or Federal agency public files?

(F) What measures have you taken to prevent undesired disclosure of the fact that you are manufacturing this substance for a commercial purpose?

(G) To what extent has the fact that you are manufacturing this chemical substance for a commercial purpose been disclosed to others? What precautions have you taken in regard to these disclosures? Has this information been disclosed to the public or to competitors?

(H) In what form does this particular chemical substance leave the site of manufacture, e.g., as part of a product; in an effluent or emission stream? If so, what measures have you taken to guard against discovery of its identity?

(I) If the chemical substance leaves the site of manufacture in a product that is available to either the public or your competitors, can they identify the substance by analyzing the product?

(J) For what purpose do you manufacture the substance?

(K) Has EPA, another Federal agency, or any Federal court made any pertinent confidentiality determinations regarding this chemical substance? If so, copies of such determinations must be included in the substantiation.

(L) If the notice includes a health and safety study concerning the new chemical substance, the submitter must also answer the questions in ยง 720.90(b)(2).

(4) If the submitter does not meet the requirements of this paragraph, EPA will deny the claim of confidentiality.

(5)(i) EPA will publish a generic name on the public Inventory if:

(A) The submitter asserts a claim of confidentiality in accordance with this paragraph.

(B) No claim for confidentiality of the specific chemical identity as part of a health and safety study has been denied in accordance with part 2 of this title or ยง 720.90.
