
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart F - Commencement of Manufacture or Import
###### ยง 720.102 Notice of commencement of manufacture.
####### Information to be reported on form.

(c)(1) The notice must be submitted on EPA Form 7710-56, which is available as part of EPA's e-PMN software. See ยง 720.40(a)(2)(iv) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software. The form must be signed and dated by an Authorized Official (AO). All information specified on the form must be provided. The notice must contain the following information:

(i) The specific chemical identity of the PMN substance.

(ii) A generic chemical name (if the chemical identity is claimed as confidential by the submitter).

(iii) The premanufacture notice (PMN) number assigned by EPA.

(iv) The date of commencement for the submitter's manufacture for a non-exempt commercial purpose (indicating whether the substance was initially manufactured in the United States or imported). The date of commencement is the date of completion of non-exempt manufacture of the first amount (batch, drum, etc.) of new chemical substance identified in the submitter's PMN. For importers, the date of commencement is the date the new chemical substance clears United States customs.

(v) The name and address of the submitter.

(vi) The name of the authorized official.

(vii) The name and telephone number of a technical contact in the United States.

(viii) The address of the site where commencement of manufacture occurred.

(ix) Clear indications of whether the chemical identity, submitter identity, and/or other information are claimed as confidential by the submitter.

(2) If the submitter claims the chemical identity confidential, and wants the identity to be listed on the confidential portion of the Inventory, the claim must be reasserted and substantiated in accordance with ยง 720.85(b). Otherwise, EPA will list the specific chemical identity on the public Inventory. Submitters who did not claim the chemical identity, submitter identity, or other information to be confidential in the PMN cannot claim this information as confidential in the notice of commencement.
