
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart E - Confidentiality and Public Access to Information
###### § 720.90 Data from health and safety studies.
####### Claims applicable to period after commencement of manufacture for commercial purposes.

(2)To maintain the confidential status of the chemical identity of a chemical substance for which a health and safety study was submitted after commencement of manufacture, the claim must be reasserted and substantiated in conjunction with a claim under § 720.85(b). In addition to the questions set forth in § 720.85(b)(3)(iv) of this part, the submitter must answer the following questions:

(i) Would disclosure of the chemical identity disclose processes used in the manufacture or processing of a chemical substance or mixture? Describe how this would occur. In responding to the question in § 720.85(b)(3)(iv)(A), explain what harmful competitive effects would occur from disclosure of this process information.

(ii) Would disclosure of the chemical identity disclose the portion of a mixture comprised by any of the substances in the mixture? Describe how this would occur. In responding to the question in § 720.85(b)(3)(iv)(A), explain what harmful competitive effects would occur from disclosure of this information.

(iii) Do you assert that disclosure of the chemical identity is not necessary to interpret any of the health and safety studies you have submitted? If so, explain how a less specific identity would be sufficient to interpret the studies.
