
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 720 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION
##### Subpart G - Compliance and Inspections
###### ยง 720.120 Compliance.

(a) Failure to comply with any provision of this part is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C 2614).

(b) A person who manufactures a new chemical substance before a notice is submitted and the notice review period expires is in violation of section 15 of the Act even if that person was not required to submit the notice under ยง 720.22.

(c) Using for commercial purposes a chemical substance or mixture which a person knew or had reason to know was manufactured, processed, or distributed in commerce in violation of section 5 of this rule is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(d) Failure or refusal to establish and maintain records or to permit access to or copying of records, as required by the Act, is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(e) Failure or refusal to permit entry or inspection as required by section 11 is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(f) Violators may be subject to the civil and criminal penalties in section 16 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2615) for each violation. Persons who submit materially misleading or false information in connection with the requirements of any provision of this rule may be subject to penalties calculated as if they never filed their notices.

(g) EPA may seek to enjoin the manufacture or processing of a chemical substance in violation of this rule or act to seize any chemical substance manufactured or processed in violation of this rule or take other actions under the authority of section 7 of this Act (15 U.S.C. 2606) or section 17 or this Act (15 U.S.C. 2616).
