
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 721.1 Scope and applicability.

(a) This part identifies uses of chemical substances, except for microorganisms regulated under part 725 of this chapter, which EPA has determined are significant new uses under the authority of section 5(a)(2) of the Toxic Substances Control Act. In addition, it specifies procedures for manufacturers and processors to report on those significant new uses. This subpart A contains general provisions applicable to this part. Subpart B of this part identifies generic requirements for certain significant new uses cross referenced in specific provisions of subpart E of this part. Subpart C of this part identifies generic reporting requirements for certain significant new uses cross referenced in specific provisions of subpart E of this part. Subpart E of this part identifies chemical substances and their significant new uses.

(b) This subpart A contains provisions governing submission and review of notices for the chemical substances and significant new uses identified in subpart E of this part. The provisions of this subpart A apply to the chemical substances and significant new uses identified in subpart E of this part, except to the extent that they are specifically modified or supplanted by specific requirements in subpart E of this part. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this subpart A and the provisions of subpart E of this part, the provisions of subpart E of this part shall govern.

(c) The provisions of part 720 of this chapter apply to this part 721. For purposes of this part 721, wherever the phrase "new chemical substance" appears in part 720 of this chapter, it shall mean the chemical substance subject to this part 721. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of part 720 of this chapter and the provisions of this part 721, the provisions of this part 721 shall govern.
