
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 721.11 Applicability determination when the specific chemical identity is confidential.
####### bona fide,bona fide,bona fide

(b) To establish aintent to manufacture (including import) or process a chemical substance, the person who proposes to manufacture (including import) or process the substance must submit the request to EPA via CDX. Prior to submission to EPA via CDX, suchintents to manufacture (including import) or process must be generated and completed using e-PMN software. See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to access the e-PMN software. Aintent to manufacture (including import) or process must contain:

(1) The specific chemical identity of the chemical substance that the person intends to manufacture (including import) or process.

(2) A signed statement that the person intends to manufacture (including import) or process the chemical substance for commercial purposes.

(3) A description of the research and development activities conducted to date, and the purpose for which the person will manufacture (including import) or process the chemical substance.

(4) An elemental analysis.

(5) Either an X-ray diffraction pattern (for inorganic substances), a mass spectrum (for most other substances), or an infrared spectrum of the particular chemical substance, or, if such data do not resolve uncertainties with respect to the identity of the chemical substance, additional or alternative spectra or other data to identify the substance.

(c) If an importer or processor cannot provide all the information required in paragraph (b) of this section because it is claimed as confidential business information by the importer's or processor's manufacturer or supplier, the manufacturer or supplier may supply the information directly to EPA.

(d) EPA will review the information submitted by the manufacturer (including importer) or processor under paragraph (b) of this section to determine whether that person has shown a bona fide intent to manufacture (including import) or process the chemical substance. If necessary, EPA will compare this information to the information requested for the confidential chemical substance under ยง 720.85(b)(3)(iii) of this chapter.
