
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 721.35 Compliance and enforcement.

(a) Failure to comply with any provision of this part is a violation of section 15(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(b) Using for commercial purposes a chemical substance which a person knew or had reason to know was manufactured or processed in violation of this part is a violation of section 15(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(c) Failure or refusal to permit access to or copying of records, as required by section 11 of the Act, is a violation of section 15(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(d) Failure or refusal to permit entry or inspection, as required by section 11 of the Act, is a violation of section 15(4) of the Act.

(e) Violators of the Act or of this part may be subject to the civil and criminal penalties in section 16 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2615) for each violation. The submission of false or misleading information in connection with the requirement of any provision of this part may subject persons to penalties calculated as if they never filed a notice.

(f) Under the authority of sections 7 and 17 of the Act, EPA may:

(1) Seek to enjoin the manufacture or processing of a chemical substance in violation of this part.

(2) Act to seize any chemical substance which is being manufactured or processed in violation of this part.

(3) Take any other appropriate action.
