
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart B - Certain Significant New Uses
###### ยง 721.63 Protection in the workplace.

(a) Whenever a substance is identified in subpart E of this part as being subject to this section, any manner or method of manufacturing (including importing) or processing associated with any use of the substance is considered a significant new use unless a program is established whereby:

(1) Each person who is reasonably likely to be dermally exposed in the work area to the chemical substance through direct handling of the substance or through contact with equipment on which the substance may exist, or because the substance becomes airborne in the form listed in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, and cited in subpart E of this part for the chemical substance, is provided with, and is required to wear, personal protective equipment that provides a barrier to prevent dermal exposure to the substance in the specific work area where it is selected for use. Each such item of personal protective equipment must be selected and used in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.132 and 1910.133.

(2) In addition to any other personal protective equipment selected in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the following items are required:

(i) Gloves.

(ii) Full body chemical protective clothing.

(iii) Chemical goggles or equivalent eye protection.

(iv) Clothing which covers any other exposed areas of the arms, legs, and torso. Clothing provided under this paragraph need not be tested or evaluated under the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) The employer is able to demonstrate that each item of chemical protective clothing, including gloves, selected provides an impervious barrier to prevent dermal exposure during normal and expected duration and conditions of exposure within the work area by any one or a combination of the following:

(i) Testing the material used to make the chemical protective clothing and the construction of the clothing to establish that the protective clothing will be impervious for the expected duration and conditions of exposure. The testing must subject the chemical protective clothing to the expected conditions of exposure, including the likely combinations of chemical substances to which the clothing may be exposed in the work area.

(ii) Evaluating the specifications from the manufacturer or supplier of the chemical protective clothing, or of the material used in construction of the clothing, to establish that the chemical protective clothing will be impervious to the chemical substance alone and in likely combination with other chemical substances in the work area.

(4) Each person who is reasonably likely to be exposed to the chemical substance by inhalation in the work area in one or more of the forms listed in paragraph (a)(6) of this section and cited in subpart E of this part for the chemical substance, is provided with, and is required to wear, at a minimum, a NIOSH-approved respirator from one of the categories listed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, and the respirator is used in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.134 and 42 CFR part 84.

(5) The following NIOSH-certified respirators meet the requirements for paragraph (a)(4) of this section:

(i) Category 19C Type C supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or other positive pressure mode and equipped with a full facepiece.

(ii) Category 19C Type C supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece.

(iii) Category 19C Type C supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet or tight-fitting facepiece.

(iv) Category 21C air-purifying respirator equipped with a full facepiece and high efficiency particulate filters.

(v) Category 21C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece and high efficiency particulate filters.

(vi) Category 21C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate filters.

(vii) Category 21C air-purifying respirator equipped with a high efficiency particulate filter including disposable respirators.

(viii) Category 23C air-purifying respirator equipped with a full facepiece and combination cartridges approved for paints, lacquers, and enamels. (Approval label may preclude use for some paints, lacquers, or enamels.)

(ix) Category 23C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece and combination cartridges approved for paints, lacquers, and enamels. (Approval label may preclude use for some paints, lacquers, or enamels.)

(x) Category 23C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and combination cartridges approved for paints, lacquers, and enamels. (Approval label may preclude use for some paints, lacquers, or enamels.)

(xi) Category 23C air-purifying respirator equipped with combination cartridges approved for paints, lacquers, and enamels, including disposable respirators. (Approval label may preclude use for some paints, lacquers, or enamels.)

(xii) Category 23C air-purifying respirator equipped with a full facepiece and organic gas/vapor cartridges.

(xiii) Category 23C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece and organic gas/vapor cartridges.

(xiv) Category 23C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and organic gas/vapor cartridges.

(xv) Category 23C air-purifying respirator equipped with organic gas/vapor cartridges, including disposable respirators.

(xvi) NIOSH-certified N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filtering facepiece respirator. (APF =10).

(xvii) NIOSH-certified air-purifying half-mask respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters. (APF =10).

(xviii) NIOSH-certified air-purifying half mask respirator equipped with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges. (APF =10).

(xix) NIOSH-certified air-purifying half-mask respirator equipped with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges in combination with N100, R100, or P100 filters or an appropriate canister incorporating N100, R100, or P100 filters. (APF =10).

(xx) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air respirator equipped with a half-mask. (APF =10).

(xxi) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) equipped with a half mask. (APF =10).

(xxii) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a hood or helmet and HEPA filters. (APF =25).

(xxiii) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator with a hood or helmet equipped with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges. (APF =25).

(xxiv) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator with a hood or helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges in combination with HEPA filters. (APF =25).

(xxv) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose fitting facepiece and HEPA filters. (APF =25).

(xxvi) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose fitting facepiece with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges. (APF =25).

(xxvii) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose fitting facepiece with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges in combination with HEPA filters. (APF =25).

(xxviii) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped with a hood or helmet. (APF =25).

(xxix) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped with a loose fitting facepiece. (APF =25).

(xxx) NIOSH-certified air-purifying full facepiece respirator equipped with N100, R-100, or P-100 filter(s). (APF =50).

(xxxi) NIOSH-certified air-purifying full facepiece respirator equipped with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges or canisters. (APF =50).

(xxxii) NIOSH-certified air-purifying full facepiece respirator equipped with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges in combination with N100, R100, or P100 filters or an appropriate canister incorporating N100, R100, or P100 filters. (APF =50).

(xxxiii) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting half mask and HEPA filters. (APF =50).

(xxxiv) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting half mask and appropriate gas/vapor cartridges or canisters. (APF =50).

(xxxv) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator with a tight-fitting half mask and appropriate gas/vapor cartridges in combination with HEPA filters. (APF =50).

(xxxvi) NIOSH-certified pressure-demand or other positive pressure mode supplied-air respirator equipped with a half-mask. (APF =50).

(xxxvii) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air respirator equipped with a full facepiece. (APF =50).

(xxxviii) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped with a tight-fitting half mask. (APF =50).

(xxxix) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) equipped with a hood or helmet or a full facepiece. (APF =50).

(xl) NIOSH-certified powered air purifying full facepiece respirator equipped with HEPA filters. (APF =1,000).

(xli) NIOSH-certified powered air purifying full facepiece respirator equipped with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges. (APF =1,000).

(xlii) NIOSH-certified powered air purifying fill facepiece respirator equipped with appropriate gas/vapor cartridges in combination with HEPA filters. (APF =1,000).
