
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart B - Certain Significant New Uses
###### ยง 721.72 Hazard communication program.
####### Employee information and training.

(d)Each employer must ensure that employees are provided with information and training on the substance identified in subpart E of this part. This information and training must be provided at the time of each employee's initial assignment to a work area containing the substance and whenever the substance subject to this section is introduced into the employee's work area for the first time.

(1) Information provided to employees under this paragraph shall include:

(i) The requirements of this section.

(ii) Any operations in the work area where the substance is present.

(iii) The location and availability of the written hazard communication program required under paragraph (a) of this section, including the list of substances identified in subpart E of this part as subject to this section, and SDSs required by paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Training provided to employees shall include:

(i) Methods and observations that may be used to detect the presence or release of the substance in or from an employee's work area (such as monitoring conducted by the employer, continuous monitoring devices, visual appearance, or odor of the substance when being released).

(ii) The potential human health and environmental hazards of the substance as specified in subpart E of this part.

(iii) The measures employees can take to protect themselves and the environment from the substance, including specific procedures the employer has implemented to protect employees and the environment from exposure to the substance, including appropriate work practices, emergency procedures, personal protective equipment, engineering controls, and other measures to control worker exposure and/or environmental release required under subpart E of the part, or alternative control measures which EPA has determined under ยง 721.30 provide substantially the same degree of protection as the specified control measures.

(iv) The requirements of the hazard communication program developed by the employer under this section, including an explanation of the labeling system and the SDS required by this section and guidance on obtaining and using appropriate hazard information.
