
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart B - Certain Significant New Uses
###### ยง 721.72 Hazard communication program.
####### Labeling.

(b)(1) Each employer shall ensure that each container of the substance in the workplace is labeled in accordance with this paragraph (b)(1).

(i) The label shall, at a minimum, contain the following information:

(A) A statement of health hazard(s) and precautionary measure(s) for the substance, if any, identified in subpart E of this part or by the employer.

(B) The identity by which the substance may be commonly recognized.

(C) A statement of environmental hazard(s) and precautionary measure(s) for the substance, if any, identified in subpart E of this part or by the employer.

(D) A statement of exposure and precautionary measure(s), if any, identified in subpart E of this part or by the employer.

(ii) The employer may use signs, placards, process sheets, batch tickets, operating procedures, or other such written materials in lieu of affixing labels to individual stationary process containers, as long as the alternative method identifies the containers to which it is applicable and conveys information specified by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. Any written materials must be readily accessible to the employees in their work areas throughout each work shift.

(iii) The employer need not label portable containers into which the substance is transferred from labeled containers, and which are intended only for the immediate use of the employee who performs the transfer.

(iv) The employer shall not remove or deface an existing label on incoming containers of the substance unless the container is immediately relabeled with the information specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) Each employer shall ensure that each container of the substance leaving its workplace for distribution in commerce is labeled in accordance with this paragraph.

(i) The label shall, at a minimum, contain the following information:

(A) The information required under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(B) The name and address of the manufacturer or a responsible party who can provide additional information on the substance for hazard evaluation and any appropriate emergency procedures.

(ii) The label shall not conflict with the requirements of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (18 U.S.C. 1801 et. seq.) and regulations issued under that Act by the Department of Transportation.

(3) The label, or alternative forms of warning, shall be legible and prominently displayed.

(4) The label, or alternative forms of warning, shall be in English; however, the information may be repeated in other languages.

(5) If the label or alternative form of warning is to be applied to a mixture containing a substance identified in subpart E of this part as subject to this section in combination with another substance identified in subpart E of this part and/or a substance defined as a "hazardous chemical" under the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Hazard Communication Standard (29 CFR 1910.1200), the employer may prescribe on the label, SDS, or alternative form of warning, the measures to control worker exposure or environmental release which the employer determines provide the greatest degree of protection. However, should these control measures differ from the applicable measures required under subpart E of this part, the employer must seek a determination of equivalency for such alternative control measures pursuant to ยง 721.30 before prescribing them under this paragraph (b)(5).
