
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart B - Certain Significant New Uses
###### ยง 721.72 Hazard communication program.
####### Safety data sheets.

(c)(1) Each employer must obtain or develop a SDS for the substance.

(2) Each SDS shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) The identity used on the container label of the substance under this section, and, if not claimed confidential, the chemical and common name of the substance. If the chemical and common name are claimed confidential, a generic chemical name must be used.

(ii) Physical and chemical characteristics of the substance known to the employer (such as vapor pressure, flash point).

(iii) The physical hazards of the substance known to the employer, including the potential for fire, explosion, and reactivity.

(iv) The potential human and environmental hazards as specified in subpart E of this part for the substance.

(v) Signs and symptoms of exposure, and any medical conditions which are expected to be aggravated by exposure to the substance known to the employer.

(vi) The primary routes of exposure to the substance.

(vii) Precautionary measures to control worker exposure and/or environmental release identified in subpart E of this part for the substance, or alternative control measures which EPA has determined under ยง 721.30 provide substantially the same degree of protection as the identified control measures.

(viii) Any generally applicable precautions for safe handling and use of the substance which are known to the employer, including appropriate hygienic practices, protective measures during repair and maintenance of contaminated equipment, and procedures for response to spills and leaks.

(ix) Any generally applicable control measures which are known to the employer, such as appropriate engineering controls, work practices, or personal protective equipment.

(x) Emergency first aid procedures known to the employer.

(xi) The date of preparation of the SDS or of its last revision.

(xii) The name, address, and telephone number of the individual preparing or distributing the SDS, or a responsible party who can provide additional information on the substance for hazard evaluation and any appropriate emergency procedures.

(3) If no relevant information is found or known for any given category on the SDS, the employer must mark the SDS to indicate that no applicable information was found.

(4) Where multiple mixtures containing the substance have similar compositions (i.e., the chemical ingredients are essentially the same, but the specific composition varies from mixture to mixture) and similar hazards, the employer may prepare one SDS to apply to all of these multiple mixtures.

(5) If the employer becomes aware of any significant new information regarding the hazards of the substance or ways to protect against the hazards, this new information must be added to the SDS within 3 months from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If the substance is not currently being manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to the SDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.

(6) The employer must ensure that persons receiving the substance from the employer are provided an appropriate SDS with their initial shipment and with the first shipment after an SDS is revised. The employer may either provide the SDS with the shipped containers or send it to the person prior to or at the time of shipment.

(7) The employer must maintain a copy of the SDS in its workplace, and must ensure that it is readily accessible during each work shift to employees when they are in their work areas. (Easy and immediate electronic access and other alternatives to maintaining paper copies of the safety data sheets are permitted as long as complete and accurate versions of the SDS are available immediately to employees in each workplace by such options.)

(8) The SDS may be kept in any form, including as operating procedures, and may be designed to cover groups of substances in a work area where it may be more appropriate to address the potential hazards of a process rather than individual substances. However, in all cases, the required information must be provided for each substance and must be readily accessible during each work shift to employees when they are in their work areas.

(9) The SDS must be in English; however, the information may be repeated in other languages.
