
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart B - Certain Significant New Uses
###### ยง 721.72 Hazard communication program.
####### Written hazard communication program.

(a)Each employer shall develop and implement a written hazard communication program for the substance in each workplace. The written program will, at a minimum, describe how the requirements of this section for labels, SDSs, and other forms of warning material will be satisfied. The employer must make the written hazard communication program available, upon request, to all employees, contractor employees, and their designated representatives. The employer may rely on an existing hazard communication program, including an existing program established under the Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) Hazard Communication Standard in 29 CFR 1910.1200 of 2012 to comply with this paragraph provided that the existing hazard communication program satisfies the requirements of this paragraph. The written program shall include the following:

(1) A list of each substance identified in subpart E of this part as subject to this section known to be present in the work area. The list must be maintained in the work area and must use the identity provided on the appropriate SDS for each substance required under paragraph (c) of this section. The list may be compiled for the workplace or for individual work areas.

(2) The methods the employer will use to inform employees of the hazards of non-routine tasks involving the substance, for example, the cleaning of reactor vessels, and the hazards associated with the substance contained in unlabeled pipes in their work area.

(3) The methods the employer will use to inform contractors of the presence of the substance in the employer's workplace and of the provisions of this part applicable to the substance if employees of the contractor work in the employer's workplace and are reasonably likely to be exposed to the substance while in the employer's workplace.
