
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart B - Certain Significant New Uses
###### ยง 721.91 Computation of estimated surface water concentrations: Instructions.
####### Number of kilograms released.

(a)(1) To calculate the number of kilograms of substance to be released from manufacturing, processing, or use operations, as specified in the numerator of the equation, develop a process description diagram which describes each manufacturing, processing, or use operation involving the substance. The process description must include the major unit operation steps and chemical conversions. A unit operation is a functional step in a manufacturing, processing, or use operation where substances undergo chemical changes and/or changes in location, temperature, pressure, physical state, or similar characteristics. Include steps in which the substance is formulated into mixtures, suspensions, solutions, etc.

(2) Indicate on each diagram the entry point of all feedstocks (e.g., reactants, solvents, and catalysts) used in the operation. Identify each feedstock and specify its approximate weight regardless of whether the process is continuous or batch.

(3) Identify all release points from which the substance or wastes containing the substance will be released into air, land, or water. Indicate these release points on the diagram. Do not include accidental releases or fugitive emissions.

(4) For releases identified in the diagram that are destined for water, estimate the amount of substance that will be released before the substance enters control technology. The kilograms of substance released may be estimated based on:

(i) The mass balance of the operation, i.e., totaling inputs and outputs, including wastes for each part of the process such that outputs equal inputs. The amount released to water may be the difference between the amount of the substance in the starting material (or formed in a reaction) minus the amount of waste material removed from each part of the process and not released to water and the amount of the substance in the final product.

(ii) Physical properties such as water solubility where a known volume of water being discharged is assumed to contain the substance at concentrations equal to its solubility in water. This approach is particularly useful where the waste stream results from separation of organic/water phases or filtration of the substance from an aqueous stream to be discharged.

(iii) Measurements of flow rates of the process/use stream and known concentrations of the substance in the stream.

(5) After releases of a substance to water are estimated for each operation on a site, total the releases of the substance to water from all operations at that site. The value (number of kilograms) specified in the numerator of the equation should reflect total kilograms of substance released to water per day from all operations at a single site.

(6) Use the highest expected daily release of the substance for each site.

(7) When a substance is designated in subpart E of this part with a specific control technology and a percentage removal of the substance from wastewater resulting from use of the specified control technology, you may subtract that percentage from the highest expected daily release if that control technology is applied.
