
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart B - Certain Significant New Uses
###### ยง 721.72 Hazard communication program.
####### Human health, environmental hazard, exposure, and precautionary statements.

(j)In addition to the requirements for the hazard communication program specified in paragraph (i) of this section, whenever referenced in subpart E of this part for a substance, the following human health and environmental hazard, exposure, and precautionary statements shall appear as specified in paragraph (i) of this section.

(1) Human health hazard statements:

(i) Causes skin irritation.

(ii) May cause cancer.

(iii) Immune system effects.

(iv) Developmental effects.

(v) May cause allergy or asthma symptoms or breathing difficulties if inhaled.

(vi) May cause damage to organs (state all organs identified in subpart E of this part for this substance) through prolonged or repeated exposure.

(vii) May damage fertility or the unborn child (state specific effect identified in subpart E of this part for this substance).

(viii) May cause an allergic skin reaction.

(ix) Causes eye irritation.

(2) Human health hazard precautionary statements:

(i) Avoid ingestion.

(ii) Wear protective gloves/protective clothing/eye protection/face protection. (Chemical manufacturer or distributor to specify type of equipment, as required.)

(iii) Wear respiratory protection. (Chemical manufacturer or distributor to specify equipment as required.)

(iv) Avoid breathing dust/fume/gas/mist/vapors/spray. (Chemical manufacturer or distributor to specify applicable conditions.)

(3) Environmental hazard statements: This substance may be:

(i) Toxic to aquatic life.

(ii) Very toxic to aquatic life.

(iii) Harmful to aquatic life.

(iv) Very toxic to aquatic life with long term effects.

(v) Toxic to aquatic life with long lasting effects.

(vi) Harmful to aquatic life with long lasting effects.

(vii) May cause long lasting harmful effects to aquatic life.

(4) Environmental hazard precautionary statements: Notice to users:

(i) Avoid release to the environment (if this is not the intended use.)

(ii) Collect spillage.

(iii) Dispose of contents/container to . . . (Specify disposal requirements in subpart E of this part and whether they apply to contents, container or both.)
