
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart B - Certain Significant New Uses
###### ยง 721.91 Computation of estimated surface water concentrations: Instructions.
####### Receiving stream flow.

(b)(1) The receiving stream flow shall be expressed in million liters per day (MLD). The flow rate data to be used must be for the point of release on the water body that first receives release of the substance whether by direct discharge from a site, or by indirect discharge through a Publicly-Owned Treatment Works (POTW) for each site. The flow rate reported shall be the lowest 7-day average stream flow with a recurrence interval of 10 years (7-Q-10). If the 7-Q-10 flow rate is not available for the actual point of release, the stream flow rate should be used from the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) gauging station that is nearest the point of release that is expected to have a flow rate less than or equal to the receiving stream flow at the point of release.

(2) Receiving stream flow data may be available from the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit for the site or the POTW releasing the substance to surface water, from the NPDES permit-writing authority for the site or the POTW, or from USGS publications, such as the water-data report series.

(3) If receiving stream flow data are not available for a stream, either the value of 10 MLD or the daily flow of wastewater from the site or the POTW releasing the substance must be used as an assumed minimum stream flow. Similarly, if stream flow data are not available because the location of the point of release of the substance to surface water is a lake, estuary, bay, or ocean, then the flow rate to be used must be the daily flow of wastewater from the site or the POTW releasing the substance to surface water. Wastewater flow data may be available from the NPDES permit or NPDES authority for the site or the POTW releasing the substance to water.
