
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart C - Recordkeeping Requirements
###### § 721.125 Recordkeeping requirements.

At the time EPA adds a substance to subpart E of this part, EPA will specify appropriate recordkeeping requirements which correspond to the significant new use designations for the substance selected from subpart B of this part. Each manufacturer and processor of the substance shall maintain the records for 5 years from the date of their creation. In addition to the records specified in § 721.40, the records whose maintenance this section requires may include the following:

(a) Records documenting the manufacturing volume of the substance and the corresponding dates of manufacture.

(b) Records documenting volumes of the substance purchased in the United States by processors of the substance, names and addresses of suppliers, and corresponding dates of purchase.

(c) Records documenting the names and addresses (including shipment destination address, if different) of all persons outside the site of manufacture or processing to whom the manufacturer or processor directly sells or transfers the substance, the date of each sale or transfer, and the quantity of the substance sold or transferred on such date.

(d) Records documenting establishment and implementation of a program for the use of any applicable personal protective equipment required under § 721.63.

(e) Records documenting the determinations required by § 721.63(a)(3) that chemical protective clothing is impervious to the substance.

(f) Records documenting establishment and implementation of the hazard communication program required under § 721.72.

(g) Copies of labels required under § 721.72(b).

(h) Copies of safety data sheets required under § 721.72(c).

(i) Records documenting compliance with any applicable industrial, commercial, and consumer use limitations under § 721.80.

(j) Records documenting compliance with any applicable disposal requirements under § 721.85, including the method of disposal, location of disposal sites, dates of disposal, and volume of the substance disposed. Where the estimated disposal volume is not known to or reasonably ascertainable by the manufacturer or processor, that person must maintain other records which demonstrate establishment and implementation of a program that ensures compliance with any applicable disposal requirements.

(k) Records documenting establishment and implementation of procedures that ensure compliance with any applicable water discharge limitations under § 721.90.
