
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart D - Expedited Process for Issuing Significant New Use Rules for Selected Chemical Substances and Limitation or Revocation of Selected Significant New Use Rules
###### ยง 721.160 Notification requirements for new chemical substances subject to section 5(e) orders.
####### Procedures for issuing significant new use rules.

(c)(1) EPA will issue significant new use rules under this section by one of the following three processes: direct final rulemaking, interim final rulemaking, or notice and comment rulemaking. EPA will use the direct final rulemaking process to issue significant new use rules unless it determines that, in a particular case, one of the other processes is more appropriate.

(2)documents issued to propose or establish significant new uses under this section will contain the following:

(i) The chemical identity of the substance or, if its specific identity is claimed confidential, an appropriate generic chemical name and an accession number assigned by EPA.

(ii) The premanufacture notice number.

(iii) The CAS number, where available and not claimed confidential.

(iv) A summary of EPA's findings under section 5(e)(1)(A) of the Act for the final order issued under section 5(e).

(v) Designation of the significant new uses subject to, or proposed to be subject to, notification and any other applicable requirements.

(vi) Any modifications of subpart A of this part applicable to the specific substance and significant new uses.

(vii) If thedocument establishes a final rule, or notifies the public that a final rule will not be issued after public comment has been received, the document will describe comments received and EPA's response.
