
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart D - Expedited Process for Issuing Significant New Use Rules for Selected Chemical Substances and Limitation or Revocation of Selected Significant New Use Rules
###### § 721.185 Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.
####### Criteria for modification or revocation.

(a)EPA may at any time modify or revoke significant new use notification requirements for a chemical substance which has been added to subpart E of this part using the procedures under § 721.160 or § 721.170. Such action may be taken under this section if EPA makes one of the following determinations, unless other information shows that the requirements should be retained:

(1) Test data or other information obtained by EPA provide a reasonable basis for concluding that activities designated as significant new uses of the substance will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment.

(2) EPA has promulgated a rule under section 4 or 6 of the Act, or EPA or another agency has taken action under another law for the substance that eliminates the need for significant new use notification under section 5(a)(2) of the Act.

(3) EPA has received significant new use notices for some or all of the activities designated as significant new uses of the substance and, after reviewing such notices, concluded that there is no need to require additional notice from persons who propose to engage in identical or similar activities.

(4) EPA has examined new information, or has reexamined the test data or other information or analysis supporting its decision to add the substance to subpart E of this part under § 721.170 and has concluded that the substance does not meet the criteria under § 721.170(b).

(5) For a substance added to subpart E of this part under § 721.160, EPA has examined new information, or has reexamined the test data or other information or analysis supporting its finding under section 5(e)(1)(A)(ii)(I) of the Act, and has concluded that a rational basis no longer exists for the findings that activities involving the substance may present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment required under section 5(e)(1)(A) of the Act.

(6) For a substance added to subpart E of this part under § 721.160, certain activities involving the substance have been designated as significant new uses pending the completion of testing, and adequate test data developed in accordance with applicable procedures and criteria have been submitted to EPA.
