
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart D - Expedited Process for Issuing Significant New Use Rules for Selected Chemical Substances and Limitation or Revocation of Selected Significant New Use Rules
###### § 721.185 Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.
####### Procedures for limitation or revocation.

(b)Modification or revocation of significant new use notification requirements for a substance that has been added to subpart E of this part using the procedures described under § 721.160 or § 721.170 may occur either at EPA's initiative or in response to a written request.

(1) Any affected person may request modification or revocation of significant new use notification requirements for a chemical substance that has been added to subpart E of this part using the procedures described in § 721.160 or § 721.170 by submitting a request that is accompanied by information sufficient to support the request. Persons submitting a request to EPA under this part must submit the request to EPA using e-PMN software in the manner set forth in 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(i). See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain the e-PMN software. Support documents related to these requests must also be submitted to EPA in the manner set forth in 40 CFR 720.40(c).

(2) The Director of the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics will consider the request, make a determination whether to initiate rulemaking to modify the requirements, and notify the requester of that determination by certified letter. If the request is denied, the letter will explain why EPA has concluded that the significant new use notification requirements for that substance should remain in effect.

(3) If EPA concludes that significant new use notification requirements for a substance should be limited or revoked, EPA will propose the changes in thebriefly describe the grounds for the action, and provide interested parties an opportunity to comment.
