
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart D - Expedited Process for Issuing Significant New Use Rules for Selected Chemical Substances and Limitation or Revocation of Selected Significant New Use Rules
###### ยง 721.170 Notification requirements for selected new chemical substances that have completed premanufacture review.
####### Procedures for issuing significant new use rules.

(d)(1) Significant new use requirements designated under this section will be listed in subpart E of this part. For each substance, subpart E of this part will identify:

(i) The chemical name.

(ii) The activities designated as significant new uses, which may include one or more of the activities described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(iii) Other specific requirements applicable to the substance.

(2) When EPA determines that a substance is a candidate for a significant new use rule under this section, it will notify the person that submitted the premanufacture notice for the substance no later than 7 calendar days before the expiration of the notice review period under ยง 720.75 of this chapter. In providing this notice, EPA will describe the health or environmental concerns identified under paragraph (b) of this section and the activities under consideration for designation as significant new uses. Such notice may be by telephone, but in this event will be confirmed in writing no later than 30 days after completion of the notice review period.

(3)documents issued to propose or establish significant new uses under this section will contain the following:

(i) The chemical identity of the substance or, if its specific identity is claimed confidential, an appropriate generic chemical name and an accession number assigned by EPA.

(ii) The premanufacture notice number.

(iii) The CAS number, where available and not claimed confidential.

(iv) A summary of the basis for action under this section.

(v) Designation of the significant new uses subject to, or proposed to be subject to, notification and any other applicable requirements.

(vi) Any modifications of subpart A of this part applicable to the specific substance and significant new uses.

(vii) If thedocument establishes a final rule, or notifies the public that a final rule will not be issued after public comment has been received, the document will describe comments received and EPA's response.

(4) EPA will issue significant new use rules under this section by one of the following three processes: direct final rulemaking, interim final rulemaking, or notice and comment rulemaking. EPA will use the direct final rulemaking process to issue significant new use rules unless it determines that, in a particular case, one of the other processes is more appropriate.

(i)(A) When EPA uses the direct final rulemaking procedure to issue a significant new use rule it will issue a direct final rule in the final rule section of thefollowing its decision to develop a significant new use rule under this section for a specific new chemical substance.

(B) Thedocument will state that, unless written notice is received by EPA within 30 days after the date of publication that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the SNUR will be effective 60 days from date of publication. The written notice of intent to submit adverse or critical comments should state which SNUR(s) will be the subject of the adverse or critical comments, if several SNURs are established through the direct final rule. If notice is received within 30 days after the date of publication that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the section(s) of the direct final rule containing the SNUR(s) for which a notice of intent to comment was received will be withdrawn by EPA issuing a document in the final rule section of theand EPA will issue a proposed rule in the proposed rule section of theThe proposed rule will establish a 30-day comment period.

(C) If EPA, having considered any timely comments submitted in response to the proposal, decides to establish notification requirements under this section, EPA will issue a final rule adding the substance to subpart E of this part and designating the significant new uses subject to notification.

(ii)(A) When EPA uses a notice and comment procedure to issue a significant new use rule, EPA will issue a proposed rule in thefollowing its decision to develop a significant new use rule under this section for a specific new chemical substance. Persons will be given 30 days to comment on whether EPA should establish notification requirements for the substance under this part.

(B) If EPA, having considered any timely comments, decides to establish notification requirements under this section, EPA will issue a final rule adding the substance to subpart E of this part and designating the significant new uses subject to notification.

(iii)(A) When EPA uses the interim final rulemaking procedure to issue a significant new use rule, EPA will issue an interim final rule in the final rule section of thefollowing its decision to develop a significant new use rule for a specific new chemical substance. The document will state EPA's reasons for using the interim final rulemaking procedure.
