
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.145 Visibility protection.
####### Emission limitations and work practice standards.

(4)(i) SOemissions collected by any primary capture system required by paragraph (l)(3) of this section must be controlled by one or more control devices and reduced by at least 99.8 percent, based on a 365-day rolling average.

(ii) SOemissions collected by any secondary capture system required by paragraph (l)(3) of this section must be controlled by one or more control devices and reduced by at least 98.5 percent, based on a 365-day rolling average.

(iii) The owner/operator must not cause or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere from any primary capture system required by paragraph (l)(3) of this section off-gas that contains nonsulfuric acid particulate matter in excess of 6.2 mg/dscm as measured using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 63.1450(b).

(iv) The owner/operator must not cause or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere from any secondary capture system required by paragraph (l)(3) of this section off-gas that contains particulate matter in excess of 23 mg/dscm as measured using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 63.1450(a).

(v) Total NOemissions from anode furnaces #1 and #2 and the batch copper converters shall not exceed 40 tons per 12-continuous month period.

(vi) Anode furnaces #1 and #2 shall only be charged with blister copper or higher purity copper. This charging limitation does not extend to the use or addition of poling or fluxing agents necessary to achieve final casting chemistry.
