
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.145 Visibility protection.
####### Recordkeeping.

(9)The owner/operator shall maintain the following records for at least five years:

(i) All CEMS data, including the date, place, and time of sampling or measurement; parameters sampled or measured; and results.

(ii) Records of quality assurance and quality control activities for emissions measuring systems including, but not limited to, any records required by 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, Procedure 1.

(iii) Records of all major maintenance activities conducted on emission units, air pollution control equipment, and CEMS.

(iv) Any other records required by 40 CFR part 60, subpart F, or 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, Procedure 1.

(v) Records of all monitoring required by paragraph (l)(8) of this section.

(vi) Records of daily sulfuric acid production in tons per day of pure, anhydrous sulfuric acid if the owner/operator chooses to use the alternative compliance determination method in paragraph (l)(7)(i) of this section.

(vii) Records of planned and unplanned bypass events and calculations used to determine emissions from bypass events if the owner/operator chooses to use the alternative compliance determination method in paragraph (l)(7)(ii) of this section.

(viii) Records of daily natural gas consumption in each units identified in paragraph (l)(1) of this section and all calculations performed to demonstrate compliance with the limit in paragraph (l)(4)(vi) of this section.
