
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Arizona
###### ยง 52.145 Visibility protection.
####### Emission capture.

(3)(i) The owner/operator of the batch copper converters identified in paragraph (m)(1) of this section must operate a capture system that has been designed to maximize collection of process off gases vented from each converter. The capture system must include a primary capture system as described in 40 CFR 63.1444(d)(3) and a secondary capture system designed to maximize the collection of emissions not collected by the primary capture system.

(ii) The operation of the batch copper converters, primary capture system, and secondary capture system shall be optimized to capture the maximum amount of process off gases vented from each converter at all times.

(iii) The owner/operator shall prepare a written operation and maintenance plan according to the requirements in paragraph (m)(3)(iv) of this section and submit this plan to the Regional Administrator 180 days prior to the compliance date in paragraph (m)(5) of this section. The Regional Administrator shall approve or disapprove the plan within 180 days of submittal. At all times when one or more converters are blowing, the owner/operator must operate the capture system consistent with this plan.

(iv) The written operations and maintenance plan must address the following requirements as applicable to the capture system or control device.
