
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### ยง 721.1450 1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-ar-methyl.
####### Recordkeeping.

(2)In addition to the requirements of ยง 721.40, manufacturers, importers, and processors must maintain the following records for 5 years after the date they are created:

(i) Any determination that gloves are impervious to the substance.

(ii) Names of persons who have attended safety meetings in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C) of this section, the dates of such meetings, and copies of any written information provided in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C) of this section.

(iii) Copies of any SDSs used.

(iv) Names and addresses of all persons to whom the substance is sold or transferred including shipment destination address if different, the date of each transfer, and the quantity of substance sold or transferred on such date.

(v) Copies of any labels used.

(vi) Any names used for the substance and the corresponding dates of use.

(vii) Quantities of the substance manufactured or imported, with the corresponding dates of manufacture or import.

(viii) Quantities of the substance purchased in the United States by processors of the substance, names and addresses of suppliers, and corresponding dates of purchase.

(ix) Information on disposal of the substance, including dates waste material is disposed of, location of disposal sites, volume of disposed solid material, estimated volume of any disposed liquid wastes containing the substance, and method of disposal.
