
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### ยง 721.6205 Hexamethylenediamine adduct of substituted piperidinyloxy (generic).
####### Protection in the workplace.

(i)Requirements as specified in ยง 721.63 (a)(i), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(5)(x), (a)(5)(xi), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii) (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(5)(xv), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), and (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). The imperviousness of each item pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(i) must be demonstrated by actual testing under paragraph (a)(3) and not by manufacturer specifications. Permeation testing shall be conducted according to the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) F739 "Standard Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases" or its equivalent. Results shall be recorded as a cumulative permeation rate as a function of time, and shall be documented in accordance with ASTM F739 using the format specified in ASTM 1194-89 "Guide for Documenting the Results of Chemical Permeation Testing on Protective Clothing Materials" or its equivalent. Gloves may not be used for a time period longer than they are actually tested and must be replaced at the end of each work shift. The manufacturer, importer, or processor must submit all test data to the Agency and must receive written Agency approval for each type of glove tested prior to use of such gloves. The following gloves have been tested in accordance with the ASTM F739 method and found to satisfy the requirements for use by EPA: Latex (at least 14 mils thick), Nitrile (at least 16 mils thick), and Silvershield (at least 3 mils thick). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the NCEL provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.2 ug/mas an 8-hour time weighted average verified by actual monitoring data.
