
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### ยง 721.9582 Certain perfluoroalkyl sulfonates.
####### Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.

(b)(1) The chemical substances listed in Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, and Table 4 of this section are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The significant new uses are:

(i) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any chemical substance listed in Table 1 of paragraph (a)(1) of this section for any use.

(ii) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any chemical substance listed in Table 2 of paragraph (a)(1) of this section for any use, except as noted in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(iii) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any chemical substance listed in Table 3 of paragraph (a)(1) of this section for any use, except as noted in paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) of this section.

(iv) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any chemical substance listed in Table 4 of paragraph (a)(1) of this section for any use.

(v) Import as part of carpets.

(3) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any chemical substance listed in Table 2 and Table 3 of paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the following specific uses shall not be considered as a significant new use subject to reporting under this section:

(i) Use as an anti-erosion additive in fire-resistant phosphate ester aviation hydraulic fluids.

(ii) Use as a component of a photoresist substance, including a photo acid generator or surfactant, or as a component of an anti-reflective coating, used in a photomicrolithography process to produce semiconductors or similar components of electronic or other miniaturized devices.

(iii) Use in coating for surface tension, static discharge, and adhesion control for analog and digital imaging films, papers, and printing plates, or as a surfactant in mixtures used to process imaging films.

(iv) Use as an intermediate only to produce other chemical substances to be used solely for the uses listed in paragraph (a)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(4) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of tetraethylammonium perfluorooctanesulfonate (CAS No. 56773-42-3) for use as a fume/mist suppressant in metal finishing and plating baths shall not be considered as a significant new use subject to reporting under this section. Examples of such metal finishing and plating baths include: Hard chrome plating; decorative chromium plating; chromic acid anodizing; nickel, cadmium, or lead plating; metal plating on plastics; and alkaline zinc plating.

(5) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of: 1-Pentanesulfonic acid, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-, potassium salt (CAS No. 3872-25-1); Glycine, N-ethyl-N-[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]-, potassium salt (CAS No. 67584-53-6); Glycine, N-ethyl-N-[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]-, potassium salt (CAS No. 67584-62-7); 1-Heptanesulfonic acid, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-pentadecafluoro-, ammonium salt (CAS No. 68259-07-4); 1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-pentadecafluoro- (CAS No. 68957-62-0); Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-[2- [ethyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl] amino]ethyl]-.omega.-methoxy- (CAS No. 68958-60-1); or 1-Hexanesulfonic acid, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-tridecafluoro-, compd. with 2,2&#x2032;-iminobis[ethanol] (1:1) (CAS No. 70225-16-0) for use as a component of an etchant, including a surfactant or fume suppressant, used in the plating process to produce electronic devices shall not be considered a significant new use subject to reporting under this section.
