
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### § 721.9719 Tris carbamoyl triazine (generic).
####### Protection in the workplace.

(i)Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 5. As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 1.0 mg/mas an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order. The following NIOSH-certified respirators meet the requirements for § 721.63(a)(4):

(A) Air purifying, tight-fitting half-face respirator equipped with the appropriate combination cartridges; cartridges should be tested and approved for the gas/vapor substance (i.e., organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific cartridge) and should include a particulate filter (N100 if oil aerosols are absent, R100, or P100);

(B) Air purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with the appropriate combination cartridges; cartridges should be tested and approved for the gas/vapor substance (i.e., organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific cartridge) and should include a particulate filter (N100 if oil aerosols are absent, R100, or P100);

(C) Powered air-purifying respirator equipped with loose-fitting hood or helmet equipped with a High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filter; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) equipped with a HEPA filter;

(D) Supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting face piece (either half-face or full-face).
