
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart E - Arkansas
###### ยง 52.173 Visibility protection.
####### Regional haze.

(a)The regional haze State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions submitted on September 23, 2008 and August 3, 2010, and supplemented on September 27, 2011 are partially approved and partially disapproved.

(1) The identification of sources that are eligible for Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART) is approved, with the exception of the 6A Boiler at the Georgia-Pacific Crossett Mill, which is BART eligible.

(2) The identification of sources subject to BART is approved, with the exception of the 6A and 9A Boilers at the Georgia-Pacific Crossett Mill, which are both subject to BART.

(3) The following BART determinations are disapproved:

(i) The sulfur dioxide (SO), nitrogen dioxide (NO), and particulate matter (PM) BART determinations for the Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation Bailey Plant Unit 1 and the AECC McClellan Plant Unit 1;

(ii) The SOand NOBART determinations for the American Electric Power Flint Creek Plant Boiler No. 1;

(iii) The NOBART determination for the natural gas firing scenario and the SO, NO, and PM BART determinations for the fuel oil firing scenario for the Entergy Lake Catherine Plant Unit 4;

(iv) The SOand NOBART determinations for both the bituminous and sub-bituminous coal firing scenarios for the Entergy White Bluff Plant Units 1 and 2;

(v) The BART determination for the Entergy White Bluff Plant Auxiliary Boiler;

(vi) The SOand NOBART determinations for the Domtar Ashdown Mill Power Boiler No. 1; and

(vii) The SO, NOand PM BART determinations for the Domtar Ashdown Mill Power Boiler No. 2.

(4) The Arkansas Regional Haze Rule, (APCEC Regulation 19, Chapter 15), is partially approved and partially disapproved such that:

(i) The requirement under Reg. 19.104(B) for BART installation and operation as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than 5 years after EPA approval of the Arkansas Regional Haze State Implementation Plan is partially approved and partially disapproved, such that the partial approval is for the BART determinations we are approving and the partial disapproval is for the BART determinations we are disapproving;

(ii) The requirement under Reg. 19.1504(B) for BART installation and operation no later than 6 years after the effective date of the State regulation is disapproved;

(iii) Reg. 19.1505 (A)(1) and (2), (B), (C), (D)(1) and (2), (E), (F)(1) and (2), (G)(1) and (2), (H), (I)(1) and (2), (J)(1) and (2), (K), (L), (M)(1), and (N) are disapproved;

(iv) the Reg. 19.1506 requirement to demonstrate compliance with the BART limits listed in Reg. 19.1505 (A)(1) and (2), (B), (C), (D)(1) and (2), (E), (F)(1) and (2), (G)(1) and (2), (H), (I)(1) and (2), (J)(1) and (2), (K), (L), (M)(1), and (N) is disapproved; and

(v) The remaining portions are approved.

(5) The regional haze long term strategy under 40 CFR 51.308(d)(3) is partially approved and partially disapproved.

(6) The reasonable progress goals are disapproved.
