
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart E - Arkansas
###### ยง 52.173 Visibility protection.
####### Interstate Transport.

(b)The portion of the SIP pertaining to adequate provisions to prohibit emissions from interfering with measures required in another state to protect visibility, submitted on March 28, 2008, and supplemented on September 27, 2011, is partially approved and partially disapproved.

(1) The Arkansas Regional Haze Rule, (APCEC Regulation 19, Chapter 15), is partially approved and partially disapproved such that:

(i) The requirement under Reg. 19.104(B) for BART installation and operation as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than 5 years after EPA approval of the Arkansas Regional Haze State Implementation Plan is partially approved and partially disapproved, such that the partial approval is for the BART determinations we are approving and the partial disapproval is for the BART determinations we are disapproving;

(ii) The requirement under Reg. 19.1504(B) for BART installation and operation no later than 6 years after the effective date of the State regulation is disapproved;

(iii) Reg. 19.1505 (A)(1) and (2), (B), (C), (D)(1) and (2), (E), (F)(1) and (2), (G)(1) and (2), (H), (I)(1) and (2), (J)(1) and (2), (K), (L), (M)(1), and (N) are disapproved;

(iv) The Reg. 19.1506 requirement to demonstrate compliance with the BART limits listed in Reg. 19.1505 (A)(1) and (2), (B), (C), (D)(1) and (2), (E), (F)(1) and (2), (G)(1) and (2), (H), (I)(1) and (2), (J)(1) and (2), (K), (L), (M)(1), and (N) is disapproved; and

(v) The remaining portions are approved.

(2) [Reserved]

(c) [Reserved]
