
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart E - Arkansas
###### ยง 52.173 Visibility protection.
####### Regional Haze Phase II SIP Revision.

(g)A portion of the Regional Haze Phase II SIP Revision submitted on August 8, 2018, is approved as follows:

(1) Identification of the 6A Boiler at the Georgia-Pacific Crossett Mill as BART-eligible and the determination based on the additional information and technical analysis presented in the SIP revision that the Georgia-Pacific Crossett Mill 6A and 9A Boilers are not subject to BART.

(2) SOand PM BART for the AECC Bailey Plant Unit 1; SOand PM BART for the AECC McClellan Plant Unit 1; SOBART for the AEP/SWEPCO Flint Creek Plant Boiler No. 1; SOBART for Entergy White Bluff Units 1 and 2; SO, NO, and PM BART for the Entergy White Bluff Auxiliary Boiler; and the prohibition on burning of fuel oil at Entergy Lake Catherine Unit 4 until SOand PM BART determinations for the fuel oil firing scenario are approved into the SIP by EPA.

(3) The focused reasonable progress analysis and the reasonable progress determination that no additional SOand PM controls are necessary under the reasonable progress requirements for the first implementation period.

(4) The long-term strategy is approved with respect to sources other than the Domtar Ashdown Mill. This includes the BART emission limits contained in the SIP revision and the SOemission limit of 0.60 lb/MMBtu under the long-term strategy provisions for Independence Units 1 and 2 based on the use of low sulfur coal.

(5) Consultation and coordination in the development of the SIP revision with the FLMs and with other states with Class I areas affected by emissions from Arkansas sources.
