
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart E - Arkansas
###### ยง 52.173 Visibility protection.
####### Arkansas Regional Haze Phase III SIP Revision.

(h)The Arkansas Regional Haze Phase III SIP Revision submitted on August 13, 2019, is approved as follows:

(1) The clear weight of evidence determination that the BART alternative for Power Boilers No. 1 and 2 satisfies all of the applicable regional haze provisions set forth in 40 CFR 51.308(e)(2)(i) to (iv) for the Domtar Ashdown Mill with respect to SO, NO, and PM.

(2) The regional haze program-specific plantwide conditions 32 to 43 from section VI of Permit #0287-AOP-R22 are approved for Power Boilers No. 1 and 2 for the Domtar Ashdown Mill, which contain SO, NO, and PMemission limits and conditions for implementing the BART alternative.

(3) The approval of the withdrawal of the current PMBART determination of 0.07 lb/MMBtu for Power Boiler No. 1 in the 2008 Arkansas Regional Haze SIP and replacement with the PMBART alternative limit in the Arkansas Regional Haze Phase III SIP Revision.

(4) The reasonable progress components under 40 CFR 51.308(d)(1) pertaining to the Domtar Ashdown Mill are approved.

(5) The long-term strategy component pertaining to the Domtar Ashdown Mill that includes the emission limits and schedules of compliance component under 40 CFR 51.308(d)(3)(v)(3) is approved.

(6) Consultation and coordination in the development of the SIP revision with the FLMs and with other states with Class I areas affected by emissions from Arkansas sources, as required under 40 CFR 51.308(i)(2) and 40 CFR 51.308(d)(3)(i), is approved.
