
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart E - Arkansas
###### ยง 52.200 Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original "Arkansas Plan for Implementation for Air Pollution Control" and all revisions submitted by Arkansas that were federally approved prior to July 1, 1998.

(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 28, 1972.

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) A certification that the public hearings on the plan were held was submitted by the State Department of Pollution Control and Ecology on January 25, 1972. (Non-regulatory)

(2) State Department of Pollution Control and Ecology letter outlining projected emission reductions, ASA forecasts, source surveillance, legal authority and interstate cooperation was submitted on February 24, 1972. (Non-regulatory)

(3) Revision of section 16 of the State air code was submitted by the Department of Pollution Control and Ecology on July 7, 1972.

(4) June 27, 1975, letter from the Governor submitting sections 1 through 10 of the Regulations and Strategy of the Arkansas Plan of Implementation for Air Pollution Control except those portions relating to delegation of authority to enforce Federal requirements.

(5) August 16, 1976, statement issued by Director of the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology specifying the test and reference methods for determining compliance with emission limitations.

(6) Administrative changes to the Arkansas Air Quality Surveillance Network were submitted by the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology on February 15, 1977, January 10, 1978, and March 27, 1978. (Non-regulatory.)

(7) On April 4, 1979, the Governor submitted the nonattainment area plan for the area designated nonattainment as of March 3, 1978.

(8) On August 14, 1979, the Governor submitted supplemental information clarifying the plan.

(9) Revisions to Arkansas Regulation 4.5(a) for the "Control of Volatile Organic Compounds" showing a final compliance date of June 1, 1981, was submitted by the Arkansas Governor on December 10, 1979.

(10) A modification to the definition for lowest achievable emission rate (LAER), consistent with the definition contained in section 171(3) of the Act, was submitted by the Arkansas Governor on December 10, 1979.

(11) On July 11, 1979, the Governor submitted revisions to section 6(a) malfunction or upset and section 7(e) continuous emission monitoring of the Arkansas Regulations.

(12) Revisions to section 3 (i.e., 3.(a), (b), (k), (l), (n), (o), (z), (bb), (dd), (ee), (ff), and (gg)), section 4 (i.e., 4.1(b), 4.2(a), 4.5(a)(1), 4.5(a)(2), 4.6(c), and 4.6(d)), and section 5 (i.e., 5.4 and 5.5) were adopted by the Arkansas Commission on Pollution Control and Ecology on September 26, 1980 and submitted by the Governor on October 10, 1980.

(13) Revisions to section 3 (i.e., 3.(ii) through 3.(nn)), section 4 (i.e., 4.1, 4.5(a)(1), 4.5(a)(2), and 4.6(e)), and section 5 (i.e., 5.6) of the Arkansas Regulations for the Control of Volatile Organic Compounds were adopted by the Arkansas Commission on Pollution Control and Ecology on April 10, 1981 and submitted by the Governor on April 23, 1981.

(14) A variance to Regulation 8 for Weyerhaeuser Gypsum Plant in Nashville, Arkansas was submitted by the Governor on June 29, 1981.

(15) On April 23, 1981, the Governor submitted revisions to the plan to incorporate Federal Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Regulations 40 CFR 52.21 by reference.

(16) On September 11, 1981, the Governor submitted a revision to section 8 of the Regulations of the Arkansas Plan of Implementation for Air Pollution Control which implements an emission limit for Energy Systems Company of El Dorado, Arkansas.

(17) The Arkansas State Implementation Plan for lead was submitted to EPA on December 10, 1979, by the Governor of Arkansas as adopted by the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology on November 16, 1979. A letter of clarification dated January 5, 1982, also was submitted.

(18) Revisions to the plan for intergovernmental consultation, interstate pollution abatement, and composition of the Arkansas Commission on Pollution Control and Ecology were submitted to EPA by the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology on January 9, 1980.

(19) Revision to the plan for maintenance of employee pay was submitted to EPA by the Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology on January 9, 1980.

(20) On April 24, 1980, the Governor submitted final revisions to the ambient monitoring portion of the plan.

(21) On December 10, 1979, the Governor submitted a revision to Section 5.1(a) of the Regulation of the Arkansas Plan of Implementation for Air Pollution Control, which controls VOC emissions. This revision was adopted by the Arkansas Commission on Pollution Control and Ecology on November 16, 1979.

(22) On July 12, 1985, the Governor submitted a revision entitled, "Protection of Visibility in Mandatory Class I Federal Areas, May 6, 1985." This submittal included new source review regulations and visibility monitoring strategy as adopted by the Arkansas Commission on Pollution Control and Ecology on May 24, 1985.
