
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### § 721.10002 2-Thiazolidinone.
####### Protection in the workplace.

(i)Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 10-25 meet the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting respirator (either half- or full-face) equipped with N100 (if aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face) and HEPA filters; and supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.7 mg/mas an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under 40 CFR 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
