
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.220 Identification of plan - in part.

This section identifies the local and regional air district rules, local ordinances, source-specific requirements, and nonregulatory materials submitted by the State of California and approved as part of the California state implementation plan. This section also identifies California statutes and state regulations submitted by the State of California and approved as part of the California state implementation plan on or prior to April 1, 2016. New or amended California statutes and state regulations approved after April 1, 2016 are identified in ยง 52.220a.

(a) Title of plan: "The State of California Implementation Plan for Achieving and Maintaining the National Ambient Air Quality Standards".

(b) The plan was officially submitted on February 21, 1972.

(1) Mendocino County APCD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 and now deleted without replacement parts XI, XII, and part XIII.

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Part X, Paragraph 3.

(iii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in this paragraph (b) and now deleted without replacement, Part V, Paragraph 4.A.

(2) Placer County APCD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rule 42 (Mountain Counties Air Basin), Rules 40 and 42 (Lake Tahoe Air Basin).

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 40 and 42.

(iii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement for implementation in the Lake Tahoe Air Basin, Rules 2-17, 2-18, 2-19, and 2-20.

(iv) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement for implementation in the Mountain Counties Air Basin, Rules 2-17, 2-18, 2-19, 2-20.
