
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.220 Identification of plan - in part.
####### 1

(vi) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted with replacement in paragraph (c)(389)(i)(B)() of this section for implementation in the Mountain Counties and Sacramento Valley Air Basins: Article 2, Section 15.

(vii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Section 51.

(3) Tehama County APCD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rule 5.1.

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rule 4.13.

(iii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 4:4.

(4) San Bernardino County APCD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Regulation VI, Rules 100 to 104, 109, 110, 120, and 130 to 137.

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Regulation 3, Rules 40, 42, 43, and 44.

(iii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 120.

(5) Ventura County Air Pollution Control District.

(6) Lassen County APCD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 1.4, 3.2, 3.3 (Schedules 1-6), 3.4, and 3.5.

(7) Nevada County APCD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 41.

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 17, 18, and 19.

(iii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement Rules 11 and 51.

(8) Orange County APCD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 120.

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Regulation VI.

(9) Sierra County APCD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 46 and 50.

(10) Siskiyou County APCD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3.

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 2.4, 2.6, and 5.1 to 5.18.

(iii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 4.2.

(11) Yolo-Solano AQMD.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 1.7 and 2.18.

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 2.7.

(iii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 2.5 and 2.6.

(12) California Air Resources Board.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) and deleted without replacement, effective September 10, 1980, chapter 7 ("Legal Considerations") of part I ("State General Plan") of the plan submitted on February 21, 1972, and all of the statutory provisions and other legal documents contained in appendix II ("State Statutes and other Legal Documents Pertinent to Air Pollution Control in California") to chapter 7.

(13) El Dorado County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 77, 78, 79, and 80.

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in this paragraph (b) and now deleted without replacement, Rules 52 and 53.

(14) Imperial County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 110.
