
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.220 Identification of plan - in part.
####### 2,3

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted with replacement paragraphs (c)(457)(i)(C)() and (), respectively: Rule 405 "Permit Conditions" and Rule 04-04 "Exemptions from Permit Requirements."

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in this paragraph (b) and now deleted without replacement, Section 2-1.

(16) Bay Area Air Quality Management District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in this paragraph (b) and now deleted without replacement, Division 11.

(ii) [Reserved]

(17) Riverside County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in this paragraph (b) and now deleted without replacement, Rules 51 and 106.

(ii) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Regulation V.

(18) Monterey-Santa Cruz County Unified Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in this paragraph (b) and now deleted without replacement, Rule 402.

(ii) [Reserved]

(19) San Benito County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 403.

(ii) [Reserved]

(20) Del Norte County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in this paragraph (b) and now deleted without replacement, Regulation IV, introductory paragraph.

(ii) [Reserved]

(21) Humboldt County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in this paragraph (b) and now deleted without replacement, Rule 51.

(ii) [Reserved]

(22) Tulare County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Sections 507, 508 and 515.

(ii) [Reserved]

(23) San Luis Obispo County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 111.

(ii) [Reserved]

(24) Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control District.

(i) Previously approved on May 31, 1972 in paragraph (b) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 17.

(ii) [Reserved]

(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.

(1) Air quality data submitted on April 10, 1972, by the Air Resources Board.

(2) Report on status of regulations submitted on April 19, 1972, by the Air Resources Board.

(3) Emission inventory submitted on April 21, 1972, by the Air Resources Board.

(4) Air quality data submitted on April 26, 1972, by the Air Resources Board.

(5) Air quality data submitted on May 5, 1972, by the Air Resources Board.

(6) Revised regulations for all APCD's submitted on June 30, 1972, by the Governor, except for:

(i) San Diego County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Rule 65 is now removed without replacement as of March 14, 1989.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rules 44, 75, 77 to 80, 82 to 84, and 86 to 91.

(C) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement, Rules 12 and 13.

(D) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 18, 22, 23, and 24.
