
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.220 Identification of plan - in part.
####### 5,6,7,8

(D) Previously approved September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted with replacement in paragraph (c)(182)(i)(F)(), (), (), and (), Rule 2.3 "Transfer," Rule 2.5 "Cancellation of Application," Rule 2.7 "Provision of Sampling and Testing Facilities," and Rule 2.9 "Conditional Approval".

(E) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in this paragraph (c)(6) and now deleted without replacement, Rules 3:2 and 3:6.

(xii) San Joaquin County APCD.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rules 502 and 506 to 509.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 107 and 109.

(C) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 206.

(D) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 418 and 419.

(xiii) Stanislaus County APCD.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rules 303, 304, 502, 505 to 510 and 512 to 517.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 107.

(C) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 206.

(D) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 419.

(xiv) Tulare County APCD.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rules 303, 304, 501, 502, 506 to 514, 516 to 518.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 107 and 109.

(C) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 206.

(D) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 419.

(xv) San Bernardino County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Previously approved on December 21, 1975 and now deleted without replacement Rule 68.

(xvi) Northern Sonoma County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rules 56, 64, 64.1 and 64.2.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 42 and 100.

(C) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 013, 015, 019, 020, 021, and 022.

(D) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 10, 12 and 18.

(E) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in this paragraph (c)(6) and now deleted without replacement, Rules 52, 85, 91 and 96.

(xvii) Los Angeles County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rule 51.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 43, 44, and Rule 120.

(C) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in this paragraph (c)(6) and now deleted without replacement, Rule 51.

(D) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in this paragraph (c)(6) and now deleted without replacement, Regulation VI.

(xviii) Orange County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rules 51, 67.1 and 68.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 45.

(C) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 100, 101, and 102.

(xix) Riverside County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rule 51.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 43 and 44 (Mojave Desert AQMD only).

(xx) Mariposa County APCD.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 17.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 16.

(xxi) Plumas County APCD.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rules 3, 4, and 40.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in this paragraph (c)(6) and now deleted without replacement, Rule 51.

(xxii) Sutter County APCD.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 2.20.

(xxiii) Shasta County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 2.17 and 2.19.

(B) [Reserved]

(xxiv) Ventura County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 22.

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 100.

(C) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 51.

(D) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 and now deleted without replacement Rule 18.

(xxv) Amador County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in this paragraph (c)(6) and now deleted without replacement, Rules 5 and 6.

(B) [Reserved]

(xxvi) Trinity County Air Pollution Control District.

(A) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in this paragraph (c)(6) and now deleted without replacement, Regulation IV, introductory paragraph, and Rules 56, 62, 67 and 68.

(B) [Reserved]

(xxvii) Placer County Air Pollution Control District.
