
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.220 Identification of plan - in part.
####### 1

(B) Previously approved on September 22, 1972 in paragraph (c)(6) of this section and now deleted with replacement in paragraph (c)(389)(i)(B)() of this section for implementation in the Lake Tahoe Air Basin: Article 2, Section 10 (paragraph (b)).

(7) Information (Non-regulatory) regarding air quality surveillance submitted on July 19, 1972, by the Air Resources Board.

(8) Compliance schedules submitted on December 27, 1973, by the Air Resources Board.

(9) Compliance schedules submitted on February 19, 1974, by the Air Resources Board.

(10) Compliance schedules submitted on April 22, 1974, by the Air Resources Board.

(11) Compliance schedules submitted on June 7, 1974, by the Air Resources Board.

(12) Compliance schedules submitted on June 19, 1974, by the Air Resources Board.

(13) Compliance schedules submitted on September 4, 1974, by the Air Resources Board.

(14) Compliance schedules submitted on September 19, 1974, by the Air Resources Board.

(15) Compliance schedules submitted on October 18, 1974, by the Air Resources Board.

(16) Compliance schedules submitted on December 4, 1974, by the Air Resources Board.

(17) Compliance schedules submitted on January 13, 1975, by the Air Resources Board.

(18) Air quality maintenance area designations submitted on July 12, 1974, by the Governor.

(19)-(20) [Reserved]

(21) Revised regulations for the following APCD's submitted on July 25, 1973, by the Governor.

(i) Lassen County APCD.

(A) Appendix A (Implementation Plan for Agricultural Burning) and Appendix B (Enforcement).

(ii) Modoc County APCD.

(A) Rule 3:10A and Regulation V (Rules 5:1 to 5:7).

(iii) Siskiyou County APCD.

(A) Rules 2.13, 4.5, 4.12, 4.13, 4.14, and Implementation Plan for Agricultural Burning.

(iv) Bay Area APCD.

(A) Regulation 1.
