
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### ยง 721.10068 Elemental mercury.
####### Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.

(b)(1) The chemical substance elemental mercury (CAS. No. 7439-97-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) The significant new uses are:

(i) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in convenience light switches in new motor vehicles.

(ii) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in convenience light switches as new aftermarket replacement parts for motor vehicles.

(iii) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in switches in anti-lock brake systems (ABS) in new motor vehicles.

(iv) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in switches in ABS as new aftermarket replacement parts for motor vehicles that were manufactured after January 1, 2003.

(v) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in switches in active ride control systems in new motor vehicles.

(vi) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in switches in active ride control systems as new aftermarket replacement parts for motor vehicles that were manufactured after January 1, 2003.

(vii) Manufacturing or processing of elemental mercury for use in flow meters, natural gas manometers, and pyrometers except for use in these articles when they are in service as of September 11, 2009.

(viii) Manufacturing or processing of elemental mercury for use in barometers, manometers, hygrometers, and psychrometers except for: Natural gas manometers covered by paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section; barometers, manometers, hygrometers, and psychrometers that were in service prior to May 6, 2011; and portable battery powered and motor-aspirated psychrometers that contain fewer than seven grams of elemental mercury.
