
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 52 - APPROVAL AND PROMULGATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - California
###### ยง 52.220 Identification of plan - in part.
####### Plan for Attainment of Standards for Total Suspended Particulates In Ventura County: Interim Report,

(ii) Ventura Air Quality Management Plan, Appendix O,July, 1980.

(iii) Attachment IV-Population Forecasts.

(iv) Attachment VI-Implementation of Emission Reductions Required for Attainment of TSP Standards.

(112) Plan for Attainment of the Federal Secondary Total Suspended Particulate Standard in Santa Clara County, an addendum to the San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin Control Strategy (Chapter 15) submitted on March 16, 1981, by the Governor's designee.

(113) Supplemental material for the San Diego Nonattainment Area Plan submitted on July 13, 1981, by the Governor's designee.

(114) Supplemental material for the San Diego Nonattainment Area Plan submitted on August 31, 1981, by the Governor's designee.

(115) Supplemental material for the San Diego Nonattainment Area Plan submitted on December 8, 1981, by the Governor's designee.

(116) Supplemental material for the South Coast Nonattainment Area Plan submitted on July 24, 1981, by the Governor's designee.

(117) Supplemental material for the South Coast Nonattainment Area Plan submitted on December 24, 1981, by the Governor's designee.

(118) Supplemental material for the South Coast Nonattainment Area Plan submitted on February 18, 1982, by the Governor's designee.

(119) Revised regulations for the following APCDs submitted on April 17, 1980, by the Governor's designee.

(i) El Dorado County APCD (Mountain Counties Air Basin).

(A) New or amended Rules 502-520.

(B) Rule 102.

(C) Previously approved on May 27, 1982 and now deleted without replacement Rules 502 to 508, 510 to 513, 515, 517 to 519, and 521.

(D) Previously approved on May 27, 1982 in paragraph (c)(119)(i)(A) of this section and now deleted without replacement, Rule 509.

(E) Previously approved on May 27, 1982 in paragraph (c)(119)(i)(A) of this section and now deleted without replacement Rule 520.

(ii) Mendocino County APCD.

(A) New or amended Rules 130, 200, 210, 220, 230, 240, 250, and 260.

(B) Previously approved on June 18, 1982 in paragraph (c)(119)(ii)(A) of this section and now deleted without replacement Rule 250.
