
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### § 721.10199 Substituted aliphatic amine (generic).
####### Protection in the workplace.

(i)Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3)(i), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). Ansell NEOX style 9-912 gloves have been shown to satisfy the requirements of § 721.63(a)(3)(i) for up to 110 minutes. Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. The following NIOSH-approved respirators meet the requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): Air purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with the appropriate combination cartridges, cartridges should be tested and approved for the gas/vapor substance (i.e., organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific cartridge) and should include a particulate filter (N100 if oil aerosols are absent, R100, or P100); powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) and the appropriate combination cartridges, cartridges should be tested and approved for the gas/vapor substance (i.e., organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific cartridges) and should include High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a tight-fitting face piece (full-face). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.14 mg/mas an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
