
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### § 721.10411 Alkanenitrile, bis(cyanoalkyl)amino (generic) (P-07-537).
####### Protection in the workplace.

(i)Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 5 meets the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) and HEPA filters; or NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) and HEPA filters.

(A) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 70 microgram/cubic meter (µg/m) as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.

(B) [Reserved]
