
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### § 721.10412 Phosphonic acid ester (generic) (P-07-706).
####### Protection in the workplace.

(i)Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent) and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 15 meet the minimum requirements for § 721.63 (a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with the appropriate gas/vapor cartridges (organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific); NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and the appropriate gas/vapor cartridges (organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific); NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator with a tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) and equipped with the appropriate gas/vapor cartridges (organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific); NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (full-face); or NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet or a tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) if no cartridge service life testing is available.

(A) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 1.0 millgram/cubic meter (mg/m) as an 8-hour time-weighted-average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.

(B) [Reserved]
