
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### ยง 721.10536 Long-chain perfluoroalkyl carboxylate chemical substances.
####### e.g.,

(i) The significant new use for chemical substances identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is: Manufacture (including import) or processing for use as part of carpets or to treat carpets (for use in the carpet aftercare market).

(ii) The significant new use for chemical substances identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is: Manufacture (including import) or processing for any use after December 31, 2015.

(iii) The significant new use for chemical substances identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is: Manufacture (including import) or processing for any use. Import or processing of fluoropolymer dispersions and emulsions, and fluoropolymers as part of articles, containing chemical substances identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall not be considered as a significant new use subject to reporting.

(iv) The significant new use for chemical substances identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except for those chemicals identified in Table 1 of paragraph (b)(2) of this section is: Manufacture (including import) or processing for any use other than the use already covered by paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.

(5) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of certain chemical substances identified in paragraph (b)(1), paragraph (b)(2), and paragraph (b)(3) of this section for the following specific uses shall not be considered as a significant new use subject to reporting under this section:

(i) Use in an antireflective coating, photoresists, or surfactant for use in photomicrolithography and other processes to produce semiconductors or similar components of electronic or other miniaturized devices.

(ii) Use of 2-Propenoic acid, 3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,10-heptadecafluorodecyl ester (CAS No. 27905-45-9) as a coating or component of a hydrophobic and/or oleophobic coating or barrier applied to manufactured articles or components of articles using an energy source or plasma deposition methods, which include a pulse deposition mode. Examples of such articles include: Electronic devices and components thereof, medical consumables and bio-consumables, filtration devices and filtration materials, clothing, footwear and fabrics.

(iii) Use of Silane, trichloro(3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,10-heptadecafluorodecyl)-(CAS No. 78560-44-8) as a surface treatment to make low refractive index resin for optical applications; surface treatment for minerals, particles and inorganic surfaces for hydrophobicity; and monomer to make specialty resins hydrophobic.

(iv) Use of Octanoic acid, 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-pentadecafluoro- (CAS No. 335-67-1) as a surfactant and coating, as part of articles: Stickers, labels, and parts to which those stickers and labels are attached.

(v) Use of 1-Propanesulfonic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-[[1-oxo-3-[(.gamma.-.omega.-perfluoro-C4-16-alkyl)thio]propyl]amino] derivs., sodium salts (CAS No. 68187-47-3); Thiols, C8-20, .gamma.-.omega.-perfluoro, telomers with acrylamide (CAS No. 70969-47-0); or Perfluorinated polyamine (generic) (ACC274147) as a component in fire extinguishing agent.

(vi) Use of Octanoic acid, 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-pentadecafluoro- (CAS No. 335-67-1); Octanoic acid, 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-pentadecafluoro-, sodium salt (1:1) (CAS No. 335-95-5); or Octanoic acid, 2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-pentadecafluoro-, ammonium salt (1:1) (CAS No. 3825-26-1) for use in automotive articles, both in factory assembly and replacement parts.

(vii) Use of Poly(difluoromethylene), .alpha.,.alpha.'-[phosphinicobis(oxy-2,1-ethanediyl)]bis[.omega.-fluoro-, ammonium salt (1:1) (CAS No. 65530-70-3); Poly(difluoromethylene), .alpha.-fluoro-.omega.-[2-(phosphonooxy)ethyl]-, ammonium salt (1:1) (CAS No. 65530-71-4); or Poly(difluoromethylene), .alpha.-fluoro-.omega.-[2-(phosphonooxy)ethyl]-, ammonium salt (1:2) (CAS No. 65530-72-5) for use in the manufacturing or processing of:

(A) Architectural coatings or wood coatings, at a maximum concentration of 0.1% by weight.

(B) Industrial primer coatings for non-spray applications to metal by coil coating application, at a maximum concentration of 0.01% by weight.

(viii) Use of Alcohols, C8-14, .gamma.-.omega.-perfluoro (CAS No. 68391-08-2) in the manufacture or processing of coatings and finishes for a variety of textile, leather, and hard surface treatments, and in the manufacture of wetting agents.

(ix) Use of Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxy-, ether with .alpha.-fluoro-.omega.-(2-hydroxyethyl)poly(difluoromethylene) (1:1) (CAS No. 65545-80-4) in water-based inks.

(x) Use of Poly(difluoromethylene), .alpha.-[2-[(2-carboxyethyl)thio]ethyl]-.omega.-fluoro-, lithium salt (1:1) (CAS No. 65530-69-0) in photo media coatings.

(xi) Use of Ethanol, 2,2'-iminobis-, compd. with .alpha.-fluoro-.omega.-[2-(phosphonooxy) ethyl]poly(difluoromethylene) (2:1) (CAS No. 65530-63-4); Ethanol, 2,2'-iminobis-, compd. with .alpha.,.alpha.'-[phosphinicobis (oxy-2,1-ethanediyl)]bis[.omega.- fluoropoly(difluoromethylene)] (1:1) (CAS No. 65530-64-5); or Ethanol, 2,2'-iminobis-, compd. with .alpha.-fluoro-.omega.-[2-(phosphonooxy)ethyl] poly(difluoromethylene) (1:1) (CAS No. 65530-74-7) in paints and coatings, grouts, and sealers.

(xii) Use of Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxy-, ether with .alpha.-fluoro-.omega.-(2-hydroxyethyl)poly(difluoromethylene) (1:1) (CAS No. 65545-80-4) in paints, coatings, ink jet inks, and ink masterbatch.

(xiii) Use of 1-Propanesulfonic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-[[1-oxo-3-[(.gamma.-.omega.-perfluoro-C4-16-alkyl)thio]propyl]amino] derivs., sodium salts (CAS No. 68187-47-3) in adhesives.
