
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### ยง 721.10862 Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, sodium salt; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, potassium salt; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, ammonium salt; Ethanol, 2-amino-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate; and Ethanol, 2,2&#x2032;2&#x2033;,-nitrilotris-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate.
####### Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.

(a)(1) The chemical substances identified as oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate (P-15-1; CAS No. 73361-29-2); oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, sodium salt (P-15-2; CAS No. 151688-56-1); oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, potassium salt (P-15-3; CAS No. 1456802-88-2); oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, ammonium salt (P-15-4; CAS No. 1456802-89-3); ethanol, 2-amino-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate (P-15-5; CAS No, 1456803-12-5); and ethanol, 2,2&#x2033;2&#x2033;,-nitrilotris-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate (PMN P-15-6; CAS No. 1456803-14-7) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The significant new uses are:
