
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### § 721.10931 Kaolin, reaction products with polysiloxane (generic).
####### Protection in the workplace.,e.g.,

(i)Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(4), (a)(6) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. A NIOSH-certified powered air purifying full facepiece respirator with an Assigned Protection Factor (APF) of at least 1,000 equipped with an appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or substance specific) cartridge in combination with HEPA filters or a NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied air respirator equipped with a full facepiece meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4).

(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.1 mg/mas an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.

(B) [Reserved]
