
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 18 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS AND SPECIAL RESEARCH CONSULTANTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
##### ยง 18.8 Stipends, Allowances, and Benefits.
###### Travel and transportation allowances.

(b)Under conditions prescribed by the Administrator or designee, an individual appointed as an Environmental Protection Research fellow may be authorized travel and transportation or relocation allowances for his or her immediate family under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5 U.S.C. 5701, in conjunction with travel authorized by the Administrator or designee. Included under this part is travel from place of residence, within or outside the continental United States, to first duty station; for any change of duty station ordered by the Administrator or designee during the term of the fellowship; and from last duty station to the place of residence which the individual left to accept the fellowship, or to some other place at no greater cost to the Government. An Environmental Protection Research fellow shall be entitled to travel allowances or transportation and per diem while traveling on official business away from his or her permanent duty station during the term of the fellowship. Except as otherwise provided herein, an Environmental Protection Research fellow shall be entitled to travel and transportation allowances authorized in this part at the same rates as may be authorized by law and regulations for other civilian employees of the EPA. If an Environmental Protection Research fellow dies during the term of a fellowship, and the place of residence that was left by the fellow to accept the fellowship was outside the continental United States, the payment of expenses of preparing the remains for burial and transporting them to the place of residence for interment may be authorized. In the case of deceased fellows whose place of residence was within the continental United States, payment of the expenses of preparing the remains and transporting them to the place of residence for interment may be authorized as provided for other civilian employees of the Agency.
