
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 721 - SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
##### Subpart E - Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances
###### § 721.11544 Halogenated benzoic acid (generic) (P-19-172).
####### Protection in the workplace.,e.g.,,e.g.,

(i)Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (iii), and (iv), (a)(3) through (6), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate, gas/vapor (all substances in the gas form), combination gas/vapor and particulate (gas and liquid/solid physical states are present; a good example is paint spray mist, which contains both liquid droplets and vapor). For purposes of § 721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%.

(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA Order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.0195 mg/mas an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach that are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA Order.

(B) [Reserved]
