
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 723 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION EXEMPTIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Exemptions
###### § 723.50 Chemical substances manufactured in quantities of 10,000 kilograms or less per year, and chemical substances with low environmental releases and human exposures.
####### Exemption notice.

(e)(1) A manufacturer applying for an exemption under either paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section must submit an exemption notice to EPA at least 30 days before manufacture of the new chemical substance begins. Exemption notices and modifications must be submitted to EPA on EPA Form No. 7710-25 via CDX using e-PMN software in the manner set forth in this paragraph. See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software. Notices and any related support documents, must be generated and completed (via CDX) using e-PMN software. See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software.

(2) The notice shall contain the information described below, pursuant to the referenced provisions of § 720.45.

(i) Manufacturer identity.

(ii) Chemical identity (§ 720.45(a)).

(iii) Impurities (§ 720.45(b)).

(iv) Known synonyms or trade names (§ 720.45(c)).

(v) Byproducts (§ 720.45(d)).

(vi) Production volume (§ 720.45(e)). (A) Manufacturers submitting an exemption application under paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be assumed to be manufacturing at an annual production volume of 10,000 kilograms. Manufacturers who intend to manufacture an exempted substance at annual volumes of less than 10,000 kilograms and wish EPA to conduct its risk assessment based upon such lesser annual production level rather than a 10,000-kilograms level, may so specify by writing the lesser annual production volume in the appropriate box on the PMN form and marking the adjacent binding option box. Manufacturers who opt to specify annual production levels below 10,000 kilograms and who mark the production volume binding option box shall not manufacture more than the specific annual amount of the exempted substance unless a new exemption notice for a higher (up to 10,000 kgs) manufacturing volume is submitted and approved pursuant to this section.

(B) Manufacturers submitting an exemption under paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall list the estimated maximum amount to be manufactured during the first year of production and the estimated maximum amount to be manufactured during any 12-month period during the first 3 years of production.

(vii) Description of intended categories of use (§ 720.45(f)).

(viii) For manufacturer-controlled sites, the manufacturer shall supply identity of manufacturing sites, process descriptions, and worker exposure and environmental release information (§ 720.45(g)); for sites not controlled by the manufacturer, processing and use operation descriptions, estimated number of processing and use sites, and worker exposure/environmental release information (§ 720.45(h)). A manufacturer applying for an exemption under paragraph (c)(1) of this section need not provide information on worker exposure and environmental release referenced in paragraphs (e)(2)(viii) of this section if such information is not known or not readily available to the manufacturer. To assist in reporting this information, manufacturers may obtain a copy of EPA's Guidance for Reporting Occupational Exposure and Environmental Release Information under 40 CFR 723.50, available from the Environmental Assistance Division at the address listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Where worker exposure and environmental release information is not supplied by the manufacturer, EPA will generally apply "bounding estimates" (i.e., exposure estimates higher than those incurred by persons in the population with the highest exposure) to account for uncertainties in actual exposure and release scenarios.

(ix) Type and category of notice. The manufacturer must clearly indicate on the first page of the PMN form that the submission is a "TSCA section 5(h)(4) exemption notice," and must indicate whether the notice is being submitted under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section. Manufacturers of chemical substances that qualify for an exemption under both paragraph (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section may apply for either exemption, but not both.

(x) Test data (§ 720.50).

(xi) Certification. In addition to the certifications required in EPA form 7710-25, the following certifications shall be included in notices under this section. The manufacturer must certify that:

(A) The manufacturer intends to manufacture the new chemical substance for commercial purposes, other than in small quantities solely for research and development, under the terms of this section.

(B) The manufacturer is familiar with the terms of this section and will comply with those terms.

(C) The new chemical substance for which the notice is submitted meets all applicable exemption conditions.

(D) For substances manufactured under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the manufacturer intends to commence manufacture of the exempted substance for commercial purposes within 1 year of the date of the expiration of the 30-day review period.

(xii) Sanitized copy of notice. (A) The manufacturer must make all claims of confidentiality in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section. If any information is claimed confidential, the manufacturer must submit a second copy of the notice, with all information claimed as confidential deleted, in accordance with paragraph (l)(3) of this section.

(B) If the manufacturer does not provide the second copy, the submission will be considered incomplete.

(xiii) Safety Data Sheet (§ 720.45(i)).
