
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 723 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION EXEMPTIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Exemptions
###### ยง 723.50 Chemical substances manufactured in quantities of 10,000 kilograms or less per year, and chemical substances with low environmental releases and human exposures.
####### Confidentiality.

(l)(1) If the manufacturer submits information to EPA under this section which the manufacturer claims to be confidential business information, the manufacturer must clearly identify the information at the time of submission to EPA by bracketing, circling, or underlining it and stamping it with "CONFIDENTIAL" or some other appropriate designation. Any information so identified will be treated in accordance with the procedures in part 2 of this chapter. Any information not claimed confidential at the time of submission may be made available to the public without further notice.

(2)(i) Any person who asserts a claim of confidentiality for chemical identity under this paragraph (l) must provide a generic chemical name that is only as generic as necessary to protect the confidential chemical identity of the particular chemical substance. The name should reveal the specific chemical identity to the maximum extent possible.

(ii) The generic name provided by the manufacturer will be subject to EPA review and approval in accordance with the procedures specified in ยง 720.85(b)(6) of this chapter. The generic name provided by the submitter or an alternative selected by EPA under these procedures will be placed on a public list of substances exempt under this section.

(3) If any information is claimed confidential, the manufacturer must submit a second copy of the notice with all information claimed as confidential deleted. EPA will place the second copy in the public file.
