
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 723 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION EXEMPTIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Exemptions
###### ยง 723.50 Chemical substances manufactured in quantities of 10,000 kilograms or less per year, and chemical substances with low environmental releases and human exposures.
####### After the review period.

(2)(i)(A) If at any time after the review period specified in paragraph (g) of this section the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention ("the Assistant Administrator") makes a preliminary determination that manufacture of the new chemical substance does not meet the terms of this section, the Assistant Administrator will notify the manufacturer by certified letter that EPA believes that the new chemical substance does not meet the terms of the section.

(B) The manufacturer may continue to manufacture, process, distribute in commerce, and use the substance after receiving the notice under paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section if the manufacturer was manufacturing, processing, distributing in commerce, or using the substance at the time of the notification and if the manufacturer submits objections or an explanation under paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section. Manufacturers not manufacturing, processing, distributing in commerce, or using the substance at the time of the notification may not begin manufacture until EPA makes its final determination under paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section.

(ii) A manufacturer who has received notice under paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section may submit, within 15 days of receipt of written notification, detailed objections to the determination or an explanation of its diligence and good faith efforts in attempting to comply with the terms of this section.

(iii) The Assistant Administrator will consider any objections or explanation submitted under paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section and will make a final determination. The Assistant Administrator will notify the manufacturer of the final determination by telephone within 15 days of receipt of the objections or explanation, and subsequently by certified letter.

(iv) If the Assistant Administrator determines that manufacture of the new chemical substance meets the terms of this section, the manufacturer may continue or resume manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, and use in accordance with the terms of this section.

(v) If the Assistant Administrator determines that manufacture of the new chemical substance does not meet the terms of this section and that the manufacturer did not act with due diligence and in good faith to meet the terms of this section, the manufacturer must cease any continuing manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, and use of the new chemical substance within 7 days of the written notification under paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section. The manufacturer may not resume manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, and use of the new chemical substance until it submits a notice under section 5(a)(1) of the Act and part 720 of this chapter and the notice review period has ended.

(vi) If the Assistant Administrator determines that manufacture of the new chemical substance does not meet the terms of this section and that the manufacturer acted with due diligence and in good faith to meet the terms of this section, the manufacturer may continue manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, and use of the new chemical substance if:

(A) It was actually manufacturing, processing, distributing in commerce, or using the chemical substance at the time it received the notification specified in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section.

(B) It submits a notice on the new chemical substance under section 5(a)(1) of the Act and part 720 of this chapter within 15 days of receipt of the written notification under paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section. Such manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, and use may continue unless EPA takes action under section 5(e) or 5(f) of the Act.

(3) Action under this paragraph does not preclude action under sections 7, 15, 16, or 17 of the Act.
