
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 723 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION EXEMPTIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Exemptions
###### ยง 723.50 Chemical substances manufactured in quantities of 10,000 kilograms or less per year, and chemical substances with low environmental releases and human exposures.
####### Customer notification.

(k)(1) Manufacturers of new chemical substances described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section must notify processors and industrial users that the substance can be used only for the uses specified in the exemption notice at paragraph (e) of this section. The manufacturer must also inform processors and industrial users of any controls specified in the exemption notice. The manufacturer may notify processors and industrial users by means of a container labeling system, written notification, or any other method that adequately informs them of use restrictions or controls.

(2) A manufacturer of a new chemical substance described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section may distribute the chemical substance only to other persons who agree in writing to not further distribute the substance until it has been reacted, incorporated into an article, or otherwise rendered into a physical form or state in which environmental releases and human exposures above the eligibility criteria in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are not likely to occur.

(3) If the manufacturer learns that a direct or indirect customer is processing or using the new substance in violation of use restrictions or without imposing prescribed worker protection or environmental release controls, the manufacturer must cease distribution of the substance to the customer or the customer's supplier immediately unless the manufacturer is able to document each of the following:

(i) That the manufacturer has, within 5 working days, notified the customer in writing that the customer has failed to comply with the conditions specified in this section and the exemption notice under paragraph (e) of this section.

(ii) That, within 15 working days of notifying the customer of the noncompliance, the manufacturer received from the customer, in writing, a statement of assurance that the customer is aware of the terms of this section and the exemption notice and will comply with those terms.

(4) If, after receiving a statement of assurance from a customer under paragraph (k)(3)(ii) of this section, the manufacturer obtains knowledge that the customer has again failed to comply with any of the conditions specified in this section or the exemption notice, the manufacturer shall cease supplying the new chemical substance to that customer and shall report the failure to comply to EPA within 15 days of obtaining this knowledge. Within 30 days of its receipt of the report, EPA will notify the manufacturer whether, and under what conditions, distribution of the chemical substance to the customer may resume.
