
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 723 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION EXEMPTIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Exemptions
###### ยง 723.250 Polymers.
####### Recordkeeping.

(j)(1) A manufacturer of a new polymer under paragraphs (e) of this section, must retain the records described in this paragraph at the manufacturing site for a period of 5 years from the date of commencement of manufacture.

(2) The records must include the following to demonstrate compliance with the terms of this section:

(i) Chemical identity information as required in paragraph (g) of this section.

(ii) Information to demonstrate that the new polymer is not specifically excluded from the exemption.

(iii) Records of production volume for the first 3 years of manufacture and the date of commencement of manufacture.

(iv) Information to demonstrate that the new polymer meets the exemption criteria in paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3) of this section.

(v) Analytical data, or theoretical calculations (if it can be documented that an analytical determination cannot be made or is not necessary), to demonstrate that the polymer meets the number-average MW exemption criteria in paragraphs (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section. The analytical tests may include gel permeation chromatography (GPC).vapor pressure osmometry (VPO), or other such tests which will demonstrate that the polymer meets the number-average MW criterion.

(vi) Analytical data, or theoretical calculations (if it can be documented that an analytical determination cannot be made or is not necessary), to demonstrate that the polymer meets the criteria in paragraphs (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section, meets the low MW content criteria in paragraphs (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section.

(vii) If applicable, analytical data, or theoretical calculations (if it can be documented that an analytical determination cannot be made or is not necessary) required in paragraph (g) of this section for determining monomers or reactants charged to the reaction vessel at greater than 2 weight percent but incorporated at 2 weight percent or less in the manufactured polymer.

(viii) The certification statements as required under paragraph (h) of this section.

(3) The manufacturer must submit the records listed in paragraph (j)(2) of this section to EPA upon written request by EPA. The manufacturer must provide these records within 15 working days of receipt of this request. In addition, any person who manufactures a new chemical substance under the terms of this section, upon request of EPA, must permit such person at all reasonable times to have access to and to copy these records.
