
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 723 - PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION EXEMPTIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Exemptions
###### ยง 723.250 Polymers.
####### Compliance.

(l)(1) A person who manufactures or imports a new chemical substance and fails to comply with any provision of this section is in violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(2) Using for commercial purposes a chemical substance or mixture which a person knew or had reason to know was manufactured, processed, or distributed in commerce in violation of section 5 of the Act is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(3) Failure or refusal to establish and maintain records or to permit access to or copying of records, as required by this section and section 11 of the Act, is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(4) Failure or refusal to permit entry or inspection as required by section 11 of the Act is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(5) Violators may be subject to the civil and criminal penalties in section 16 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2615) for each violation. Persons who submit materially misleading or false information in connection with the requirements of any provision of this section may be subject to penalties calculated as if they never filed their notices.

(6) EPA may seek to enjoin the manufacture or processing of a chemical substance in violation of this section or act to seize any chemical substance manufactured or processed in violation of this section or take other actions under the authority of section 7 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2606) or section 17 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2616).
