
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions and Applicability
###### ยง 725.3 Definitions.
####### Health and safety study of a microorganism,health and safety study

ormeans any study of any effect of a microorganism or microbial mixture on health or the environment or on both, including underlying data and epidemiological studies, studies of occupational exposure to a microorganism or microbial mixture, toxicological, clinical, and ecological, or other studies of a microorganism or microbial mixture, and any test performed under the Act. Microorganism identity is always part of a health and safety study of a microorganism.

(1) It is intended that the term "health and safety study of a microorganism" be interpreted broadly. Not only is information which arises as a result of a formal, disciplined study included, but other information relating to the effects of a microorganism or microbial mixture on health or the environment is also included. Any data that bear on the effects of a microorganism on health or the environment would be included.

(2) Examples include:

(i) Tests for ecological or other environmental effects on invertebrates, fish, or other animals, and plants, including: Acute toxicity tests, chronic toxicity tests, critical life stage tests, behavioral tests, algal growth tests, seed germination tests, plant growth or damage tests, microbial function tests, bioconcentration or bioaccumulation tests, and model ecosystem (microcosm) studies.

(ii) Long- and short-term tests of mutagenicity, carcinogenicity, or teratogenicity; dermatoxicity; cumulative, additive, and synergistic effects; and acute, subchronic, and chronic effects.

(iii) Assessments of human and environmental exposure, including workplace exposure, and impacts of a particular microorganism or microbial mixture on the environment, including surveys, tests, and studies of: Survival and transport in air, water, and soil; ability to exchange genetic material with other microorganisms, ability to colonize human or animal guts, and ability to colonize plants.

(iv) Monitoring data, when they have been aggregated and analyzed to measure the exposure of humans or the environment to a microorganism.

(v) Any assessments of risk to health and the environment resulting from the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, or disposal of the microorganism.
