
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions and Applicability
###### § 725.1 Scope and purpose.

(a) This part establishes all reporting requirements under section 5 of TSCA for manufacturers, importers, and processors of microorganisms subject to TSCA jurisdiction for commercial purposes, including research and development for commercial purposes. New microorganisms for which manufacturers and importers are required to report under section 5(a)(1)(A) of TSCA are those that are intergeneric. In addition, under section 5(a)(1)(B) of TSCA, manufacturers, importers, and processors may be required to report for any microorganism that EPA determines by rule is being manufactured, imported, or processed for a significant new use.

(b) Any manufacturer, importer, or processor required to report under section 5 of TSCA (see § 725.100 for new microorganisms and § 725.900 for significant new uses) must file a Microbial Commercial Activity Notice (MCAN) with EPA, unless the activity is eligible for a specific exemption as described in this part. The general procedures for filing MCANs are described in subpart D of this part. The exemptions from the requirement to file a MCAN are for certain kinds of contained activities (see §§ 725.424 and 725.428), test marketing activities (see § 725.300), and research and development activities described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Any manufacturer, importer, or processor required to file a MCAN for research and development (R&D) activities may instead file a TSCA Experimental Release Application (TERA) for a specific test (see § 725.250). A TERA is not required for certain R&D activities; however a TERA exemption does not extend beyond the research and development stage, to general commercial use of the microorganism, for which compliance with MCAN requirements is required. The TERA exemptions are for R&D activities subject to other Federal agencies or programs (see § 725.232), certain kinds of contained R&D activities (see § 725.234), and R&D activities using certain listed microorganisms (see § 725.238).

(d) New microorganisms will be added to the Inventory established under section 8 of TSCA once a MCAN has been received, the MCAN review period has expired, and EPA receives a Notice of Commencement (NOC) indicating that manufacture or importation has actually begun. New microorganisms approved for use under a TERA will not be added to the Inventory until a MCAN has been received, the MCAN review period has expired, and EPA has received an NOC.
