
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions and Applicability
###### ยง 725.15 Determining applicability when microorganism identity or use is confidential or uncertain.
####### bona fide,bona fide,bona fide

(2) To establish aintent to manufacture (including import) or process a microorganism, the person who proposes to manufacture (including import) or process the microorganism must submit the request to EPA via CDX. Prior to submission to EPA via CDX, suchintents to manufacture (including import) or process must be generated and completed using e-PMN software. See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to access the e-PMN software. Aintent to manufacture (including import) or process must contain the following information:

(i) Taxonomic designations and supplemental information required by ยง 725.12.

(ii) A signed statement certifying that the submitter intends to manufacture (including import) or process the microorganism for commercial purposes.

(iii) A description of research and development activities conducted with the microorganism to date, demonstration of the submitter's ability to produce or obtain the microorganism from a foreign manufacturer, and the purpose for which the person will manufacture (including import) or process the microorganism.

(iv) An indication of whether a related microorganism was previously reviewed by EPA to the extent known by the submitter.

(v) A specific description of the major intended application or use of the microorganism.

(c) If an importer or processor cannot provide all the information required by paragraph (b) of this section, because it is claimed as confidential business information by its foreign manufacturer or supplier, the foreign manufacturer or supplier may supply the information directly to EPA.
