
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 725.25 General administrative requirements.
####### Agency or joint submissions.

(e)(1) A manufacturer or importer may designate an agent to assist in submitting the MCAN. If so, only the manufacturer or importer, and not the agent, signs the certification on the form.

(2) A manufacturer or importer may authorize another person, (e.g., a supplier or a toll manufacturer) to report some of the information required in the MCAN to EPA on its behalf. The manufacturer or importer should indicate in a cover letter accompanying the MCAN which information will be supplied by another person and identify that other person as a joint submitter where indicated in their MCAN. The other person supplying information (i.e., the joint submitter) may submit the information to EPA either in the MCAN or a Letter of Support, except that if the joint submitter is not incorporated, licensed, or doing business in the United States, the joint submitter must submit the information to EPA in a Letter of Support only, rather than the MCAN. The joint submitter must indicate in the MCAN or Letter of Support the identity of the manufacturer or importer. Any person who submits the MCAN or Letter of Support for a joint submission must sign and certify the MCAN or Letter of Support.

(3) If EPA receives a submission which does not include the information required, which the submitter indicates that it has authorized another person to provide, the review period will not begin until EPA receives all of the required information.
