
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 725.25 General administrative requirements.
####### Microorganisms subject to a section 4 test rule.

(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, if a person intends to manufacture or import a new microorganism which is subject to the notification requirements of this part, and the microorganism is subject to a test rule promulgated under section 4 of the Act before the notice is submitted, section 5(b)(1) of the Act requires the person to submit the test data required by the testing rule with the notice. The person must submit the data in the form and manner specified in the test rule and in accordance with ยง 725.160. If the person does not submit the test data, the submission is incomplete and EPA will follow the procedures in ยง 725.33.

(2) If EPA has granted the submitter an exemption under section 4(c) of the Act from the requirement to conduct tests and submit data, the person may not file a MCAN or TERA until EPA receives the test data.

(3) If EPA has granted the submitter an exemption under section 4(c) of the Act and if another person previously has submitted the test data to EPA, the exempted person may either submit the test data or provide the following information as part of the notice:

(i) The name, title, and address of the person who submitted the test data to EPA.

(ii) The date the test data were submitted to EPA.

(iii) A citation for the test rule.

(iv) A description of the exemption and a reference identifying it.
