
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 725.56 Extension of the review period.

(a) At any time during the review period, EPA may unilaterally determine that good cause exists to extend the review period specified for MCANs, or the exemption requests.

(b) If EPA makes such a determination, EPA:

(1) Will notify the submitter that EPA is extending the review period for a specified length of time and state the reasons for the extension.

(2) For MCANs, EPA may issue a notice for publication in thewhich states that EPA is extending the review period and gives the reasons for the extension.

(c) The total period of the extension may be for a period of up to the same length of time as specified for each type of submission in ยง 725.50. If the initial extension is for less than the total time allowed, EPA may make additional extensions. However, the sum of the extensions may not exceed the total allowed.

(d) The following are examples of situations in which EPA may find that good cause exists for extending the review period:

(1) EPA has reviewed the submission and is seeking additional information.

(2) EPA has received significant additional information during the review period.

(3) The submitter has failed to correct a submission after receiving EPA's request under ยง 725.32.

(4) EPA has reviewed the submission and determined that there is a significant possibility that the microorganism will be regulated under section 5(e) or section 5(f) of the Act, but EPA is unable to initiate regulatory action within the initial review period.
