
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 725.70 Compliance.

(a) Failure to comply with any provision of this part is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(b) A person who manufactures or imports a microorganism before a MCAN is submitted and the MCAN review period expires is in violation of section 15 of the Act even if that person was not required to submit the MCAN under ยง 725.105.

(c) Using a microorganism which a person knew or had reason to know was manufactured, processed, or distributed in commerce in violation of section 5 of the Act or this part is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(d) Failure or refusal to establish and maintain records or to permit access to or copying of records, as required by the Act, is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(e) Failure or refusal to permit entry or inspection as required by section 11 of the Act is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).

(f) Violators may be subject to the civil and criminal penalties in section 16 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2615) for each violation. Persons who submit materially misleading or false information in connection with the requirements of any provision of this part may be subject to penalties calculated as if they never filed their submissions.

(g) EPA may seek to enjoin the manufacture or processing of a microorganism in violation of this part or act to seize any microorganism manufactured or processed in violation of this part or take other actions under the authority of section 7 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2606) or section 17 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2616).
