
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart C - Confidentiality and Public Access to Information
###### ยง 725.85 Microorganism identity.
####### Use of generic name on the public Inventory.

(6)If a submitter asserts a claim of confidentiality under paragraph (b) of this section, EPA will examine the generic microorganism name proposed by the submitter.

(i) If EPA determines that the generic name proposed by the submitter is only as generic as necessary to protect the confidential identity of the particular microorganism, EPA will place that generic name on the public Inventory.

(ii) If EPA determines that the generic name proposed by the submitter is more generic than necessary to protect the confidential identity, EPA will propose in writing, for review by the submitter, an alternative generic name that will reveal the identity of the microorganism to the maximum extent possible.

(iii) If the generic name proposed by EPA is acceptable to the submitter, EPA will place that generic name on the public Inventory.

(iv) If the generic name proposed by EPA is not acceptable to the submitter, the submitter must explain in detail why disclosure of that generic name would reveal confidential business information and propose another generic name which is only as generic as necessary to protect the confidential identity of the microorganism. If EPA does not receive a response from the submitter within 30 days after the submitter receives the proposed name, EPA will place EPA's chosen generic name on the public Inventory. If the submitter does provide the information requested, EPA will review the response. If the submitter's proposed generic name is acceptable, EPA will publish that generic name on the public Inventory. If the submitter's proposed generic name is not acceptable, EPA will notify the submitter of EPA's choice of a generic name. Thirty days after this notification, EPA will place the chosen generic name on the public Inventory.
