
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart C - Confidentiality and Public Access to Information
###### ยง 725.94 Substantiation requirements.
####### General questions.

(c)The following questions must be answered in detail for each confidentiality claim:

(1) For what period of time is a claim of confidentiality being asserted? If the claim is to extend until a certain event or point in time, indicate that event or time period. Explain why the information should remain confidential until such point.

(2) Briefly describe any physical or procedural restrictions within the company or institution relating to the use and storage of the information claimed as confidential. What other steps, if any, apply to use or further disclosure of the information?

(3) Has the information claimed as confidential been disclosed to individuals outside of the company or institution? Will it be disclosed to such persons in the future? If so, what restrictions, if any, apply to use or further disclosure of the information?

(4) Does the information claimed as confidential appear, or is it referred to, in any of the following questions? If the answer is yes to any of these questions, indicate where the information appears and explain why it should nonetheless be treated as confidential.

(i) Advertising or promotional materials for the microorganism or the resulting end product?

(ii) Material safety data sheets or other similar materials for the microorganism or the resulting end product?

(iii) Professional or trade publications?

(iv) Any other media available to the public or to competitors?

(v) Patents?

(vi) Local, State, or Federal agency public files?

(5) Has EPA, another Federal agency, a Federal court, or a State made any confidentiality determination regarding the information claimed as confidential? If so, provide copies of such determinations.

(6) For each type of information claimed confidential, describe the harm to the company's or institution's competitive position that would result if this information were disclosed. Why would this harm be substantial? How could a competitor use such information? What is the causal connection between the disclosure and harm?

(7) If EPA disclosed to the public the information claimed as confidential, how difficult would it be for the competitor to enter the market for the resulting product? Consider such constraints as capital and marketing cost, specialized technical expertise, or unusual processes.
