
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart C - Confidentiality and Public Access to Information
###### ยง 725.94 Substantiation requirements.
####### Claims applicable to the period after commencement of manufacture or import for general commercial use.

(b)(1) If a submitter claimed portions of the microorganism identity confidential in the MCAN and wants the identity to be listed on the confidential Inventory, the claim must be reasserted and substantiated at the time the Notice of Commencement (NOC) is submitted under ยง 725.190. Otherwise, EPA will list the specific microorganism identity on the public Inventory.

(2) The submitter must substantiate the claim for confidentiality of the microorganism identity by answering all of the questions in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) in this section. In addition, the following questions must be answered:

(i) What harmful effects to the company's or institution's competitive position, if any, would result if EPA publishes on the Inventory the identity of the microorganism? How could a competitor use such information given the fact that the identity of the microorganism otherwise would appear on the TSCA Inventory with no link between the microorganism and the company or institution? How substantial would the harmful effects of disclosure be? What is the causal relationship between the disclosure and the harmful effects?

(ii) Has the identity of the microorganism been kept confidential to the extent that competitors do not know it is being manufactured or imported for general commercial use by anyone?
