
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart D - Microbial Commercial Activities Notification Requirements
###### ยง 725.160 Submission of health and environmental effects data.
####### Other data concerning the health and environmental effects of the new microorganism that are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter.

(b)(1) Except as provided in ยง 725.25(h), and in addition to the information required by ยง 725.155(c)(3), any person who submits a MCAN must describe the following data, including any data from a health and safety study of a microorganism, if the data are related to effects on health or the environment of any manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, or disposal of the microorganism, of any microbial mixture or article containing the new microorganism, or of any combination of such activities:

(i) Any data, other than test data, in the submitter's possession or control.

(ii) Any data, including test data, which are not in the submitter's possession or control, but which are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter. For the purposes of this section, data are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter if the data are known to any of its employees or other agents who are associated with the research and development, test marketing, or commercial marketing of the microorganism.

(2) Data that must be described include data concerning the new microorganism in a pure culture or formulated form as used or as intended to be used in one of the activities listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) The description of data reported under paragraph (b) of this section must include:

(i) If the data appear in the open scientific literature, a standard literature citation, which includes the author, title, periodical name, date of publication, volume, and pages.

(ii) If the data are not available in the open scientific literature, a description of the type of data and summary of the results, if available, and the names and addresses of persons the submitter believes may have possession or control of the data.

(4) All data described in paragraph (b) of this section are subject to these requirements, regardless of their age, quality, or results; and regardless of whether they are complete at the time the MCAN is submitted.
