
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart E - Exemptions for Research and Development Activities
###### § 725.235 Conditions of exemption for activities conducted inside a structure.
####### Recordkeeping.

(c)(1) For research conducted in accordance with the NIH Guidelines, a person who manufactures, imports, or processes a microorganism under this section must retain the following records:

(i) Documentation that the NIH Guidelines have been adhered to. Such documentation shall include:

(A) For experiments subject to Institutional Biosafety Committee review, or notification simultaneous with initiation of the experiment, the information submitted for review or notification, along with standard laboratory records, shall satisfy the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 725.234(d)(3).

(B) For experiments exempt from Institutional Biosafety Committee review or notification simultaneous with initiation of the experiment, documentation of the exemption, along with standard laboratory records, shall satisfy the recordkeeping requirement specified in § 725.234(d)(3).

(ii) Documentation of how the following requirements are satisfied under the NIH Guidelines:

(A) Copies or citations to information reviewed and evaluated to determine the need to make any notification of risk.

(B) Documentation of the nature and method of notification of risk, including copies of any labels or written notices used.

(C) The names and addresses of any persons other than the manufacturer, importer, or processor to whom the substance is distributed, the identity of the microorganism, the amount distributed, and copies of the notifications required.

(2) For all other research conducted in accordance with § 725.234, a person who manufacturers, imports, or processes a microorganism under this section, must maintain the following records:

(i) Records describing selection and use of containment and/or inactivation controls required by § 725.234(d)(3) and certification by an authorized official required by § 725.234(d)(2) for each microorganism.

(ii) Copies or citations to information reviewed and evaluated under paragraph (a) of this section to determine the need to make any notification of risk.

(iii) Documentation of the nature and method of notification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, including copies of any labels or written notices used.

(iv) The names and addresses of any persons other than the manufacturer, importer, or processor to whom the substance is distributed, the identity of the microorganism, the amount distributed, and copies of the notifications required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
