
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart E - Exemptions for Research and Development Activities
###### ยง 725.288 Revocation or modification of TERA approval.
####### Significant questions about risk.

(a)(1) If, after approval of a TERA under this subpart, EPA receives information which raises significant questions about EPA's determination that the activity does not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment, EPA will notify the submitter in writing of those questions.

(2) The submitter may, within 10 days of receipt of EPA's notice, provide in writing additional information or arguments concerning the significance of the questions and whether EPA should modify or revoke the approval of the TERA.

(3) After considering any such information and arguments, EPA will decide whether to change its determination regarding approval of the TERA.

(i) If EPA determines that the activity will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment, it will notify the submitter in writing. To make this finding, EPA may prescribe additional conditions which must be followed by the submitter.

(ii) If EPA determines that it can no longer conclude that the activity will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment, it will notify the submitter in writing that EPA is revoking its approval and state its reasons. In that event, the submitter must terminate the research and development activity within 48 hours of receipt of the notice in accordance with directions provided by EPA in the notice.
