
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart E - Exemptions for Research and Development Activities
###### ยง 725.288 Revocation or modification of TERA approval.
####### Evidence of unreasonable risk.

(b)(1) If, after approval of a TERA under this subpart, EPA determines that the proposed research and development activity will present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment, EPA will notify the submitter in writing and state its reasons.

(2) In the notice, EPA may prescribe additional safeguards to address or reduce the risk, or may instruct the submitter to suspend the research and development activities.

(3) Within 48 hours, the submitter must implement the instructions contained in the notice. The submitter may then submit additional information or arguments concerning the matters raised by EPA and whether EPA should modify or revoke the approval of the TERA in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) EPA will consider the information and arguments in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(5) Following consideration of the information and arguments under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if EPA notifies the submitter that the R&D activity must be suspended or terminted, the submitter may resume the activity only upon written notice from EPA that EPA has approved resumption of the activity. In approving resumption of an activity, EPA may prescribe additional conditions which must be followed by the submitter.
