
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart G - General Exemptions for New Microorganisms
###### ยง 725.421 Introduced genetic material.
####### Free of certain sequences.

(d)(1) The introduced genetic material must not contain a functional portion of any of the toxin-encoding sequences described in this paragraph (d).

(i) For the purposes of this section, a functional portion of a toxin-encoding sequence means any sequence which codes for a polypeptide that has one of the following effects:

(A) It directly or indirectly contributes to toxic effects in humans. Directly contributes to toxic effects in humans means those sequences encoding polypeptides that have direct toxicity to target cells. An example of a sequence which directly contributes to toxic effects in humans is one which encodes the portion of diphtheria toxin, listed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, capable of interacting with elongation factor 2, leading to inhibition of protein synthesis in target respiratory, heart, kidney, and nerve tissues. Indirectly contributes to toxic effects in humans means a sequence whose encoded polypeptide is not directly toxic to target cells, yet still adversely affects humans. An example of a sequence which indirectly contributes to toxic effects is the sequence which encodes the portion of the botulinum toxin, listed in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, capable of blocking the release of acetylcholine from gangliosides. Botulinum toxin affects neuromuscular junctions by its blockage of acetylcholine release, leading to irreversible relaxation of muscles and respiratory arrest.

(B) It binds a toxin or toxin precursor to target human cells.

(C) It facilitates intracellular transport of a toxin in target human cells.

(ii) While these toxins are listed (with synonyms in parentheses) in paragraphs (d)(2) through (d)(7) of this section according to the source organism, it is use of the nucleotide sequences that encode the toxins that is being restricted and not the use of the source organisms. The source organisms are listed to provide specificity in identification of sequences whose use is restricted. Although similar or identical sequences may be isolated from organisms other than those listed below in paragraphs (d)(2) through (d)(7) of this section, these comparable toxin sequences, regardless of the organism from which they are derived, must not be included in the introduced genetic material.
