
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart G - General Exemptions for New Microorganisms
###### § 725.424 Requirements for the Tier I exemption.
####### Conditions of exemption.

(a)The manufacture or import of a new microorganism for commercial purposes is not subject to review under this part if all of the following conditions are met for all activities involving the new microorganism:

(1) The recipient microorganism is listed in and meets any requirements specified in § 725.420.

(2) The introduced genetic material meets the criteria under § 725.421.

(3) The physical containment and control technologies of any facility in which the microorganism will be manufactured, processed, or used meet the criteria under § 725.422.

(4) The manufacturer or importer submits a certification described in paragraph (b) of this section to EPA at least 10 days before commencing initial manufacture or import of a new microorganism derived from a recipient microorganism listed in § 725.420.

(5) The manufacturer or importer complies with the recordkeeping requirements of § 725.65 and maintains records for the initial and subsequent uses of the new microorganism that verify compliance with the following:

(i) The certifications made in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) All the eligibility criteria for the Tier I exemption including the criteria for the recipient microorganism, the introduced genetic material, the physical containment and control technologies.
