
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart G - General Exemptions for New Microorganisms
###### ยง 725.455 Information to be included in the Tier II exemption request.
####### Process and containment information.

(d)(1) A description of the process including the following:

(i) Identity and location of the manufacturing site(s).

(ii) Process flow diagram illustrating the production process, including downstream separations, and indicating the containment envelope around the appropriate equipment.

(iii) Identities and quantities of feedstocks.

(iv) Sources and quantities of potential releases to both the workplace and environment, and a description of engineering controls, inactivation procedures, and other measures which will reduce worker exposure and environmental releases.

(v) A description of procedures which will be undertaken to prevent fugitive emissions, i.e. leak detection and repair program.

(vi) A description of procedures/safeguards to prevent and mitigate accidental releases to the workplace and the environment.

(2) Certification of those elements of the containment criteria described in ยง 725.422 with which the manufacturer is in compliance, including stating by number the elements with which the manufacturer is in full compliance.

(e) The site of waste disposal and the type of permits for disposal, the permit numbers and the institutions issuing the permits.

(f) The certification statement required in ยง 725.25(b). Certification of submission of test data is not required for the Tier II exemption.
