
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart L - Additional Procedures for Reporting on Significant New Uses of Microorganisms
###### § 725.912 Exemptions.

Persons identified in § 725.105(c) are not required to submit a MCAN under subpart D of this part for a microorganism identified in subpart M of this part, unless otherwise specified in a specific section in subpart M, if:

(a) The person submits a MCAN for the microorganism prior to the promulgation date of the section in subpart M of this part which identifies the microorganism, and the person receives written notification of compliance from EPA prior to the effective date of such section. The MCAN submitter must comply with any applicable requirement of section 5(b) of the Act. The MCAN must include the information and test data specified in section 5(d)(1) of the Act. For purposes of this exemption, the specific section in subpart M of this part which identifies the microorganism and §§ 725.3, 725.15, 725.65, 725.70, 725.75, 725.100, and 725.900 apply; after the effective date of the section in subpart M of this part which identifies the microorganism, §§ 725.105 and 725.910 apply and § 725.920 continues to apply. EPA will provide the MCAN submitter with written notification of compliance only if one of the following occurs:

(1) EPA is unable to make the finding that the activities described in the MCAN will or may present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment under reasonably foreseeable circumstances, or

(2) EPA and the person negotiate a consent order under section 5(e) of the Act, such order to take effect on the effective date of the section in subpart M of this part which identifies the microorganism.

(b) The person is operating under the terms of a consent order issued under section 5(e) of the Act applicable to that person. If a provision of such section 5(e) order is inconsistent with a specific significant new use identified in subpart M of this part, abiding by the provision of the section 5(e) order exempts the person from submitting a MCAN for that specific significant new use.
