
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart L - Additional Procedures for Reporting on Significant New Uses of Microorganisms
###### § 725.975 EPA approval of alternative control measures.

(a) In certain sections of subpart M of this part, significant new uses for the identified microorganisms are described as the failure to establish and implement programs providing for the use of either: specific measures to control worker exposure to or release of microorganisms which are identified in such sections, or alternative measures to control worker exposure or environmental release which EPA has determined provide substantially the same degree of protection as the specified control measures. Persons who manufacture, import, or process a microorganism identified in such sections and who intend to employ alternative measures to control worker exposure or environmental release must submit a request to EPA for a determination of equivalency before commencing manufacture, import, or processing involving the alternative control measures.

(b) Persons submitting a request for a determination of equivalency to EPA under this part must submit the request to EPA (via CDX) using e-PMN software. See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software. Support documents related to these requests must also be submitted to EPA via CDX using e-PMN software. A request for a determination of equivalency must contain:

(1) The name of the submitter.

(2) The specific identity of the microorganism.

(3) The citation for the specific section in subpart M of this part which pertains to the microorganism for which the request is being submitted.

(4) A detailed description of the activities involved.

(5) The specifications of the alternative worker exposure control measures or environmental release control measures.

(6) A detailed analysis explaining why such alternative control measures provide substantially the same degree of protection as the specific control measures identified in the specific section in subpart M of this part which pertains to the microorganism for which the request is being submitted.

(7) The data and information described in §§ 725.155 and 725.160. If such data and information have already been submitted to EPA's Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, the submitter need only document that it was previously submitted, to whom, and the date it was submitted.

(c) Requests for determinations of equivalency will be reviewed by EPA within 45 days. Determinations under this paragraph will be made by the Director, or a designee. Notice of the results of such determinations will be mailed to the submitter.

(d) If EPA notifies the submitter under paragraph (c) of this section that EPA has determined that the alternative control measures provide substantially the same degree of protection as the specified control measures identified in the specific section of subpart M of this part which pertains to the microorganism for which the request is being submitted, the submitter may commence manufacture, import, or processing in accordance with the specifications for alternative worker exposure control measures or environmental release control measures identified in the submitter's request, and may alter any corresponding notification to workers to reflect such alternative controls. Deviations from the activities described in the EPA notification constitute a significant new use and are subject to the requirements of this part.
