
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart L - Additional Procedures for Reporting on Significant New Uses of Microorganisms
###### ยง 725.980 Expedited procedures for issuing significant new use rules for microorganisms subject to section 5(e) orders.
####### Interim final rulemaking.

(4)(i) EPA will use the interim final rulemaking procedure to issue a significant new use rule, when specific requirements will be based on and be consistent with the provisions included in the final order issued for the microorganism under section 5(e) of the Act. The Agency will issue an interim final rule in thefollowing its decision to develop a significant new use rule for a specific new microorganism. The document will state EPA's reasons for using the interim final rulemaking procedure.

(A) The significant new use rule will take effect on the date of publication.

(B) Persons will be given 30 days from the date of publication to submit comments.

(ii) Interim final rules issued under this section shall cease to be in effect 180 days after publication unless, within the 180-day period, EPA issues a final rule in theresponding to any written comments received during the 30-day comment period specified in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section and promulgating final significant new use notification requirements and other requirements for the microorganism.
