
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart L - Additional Procedures for Reporting on Significant New Uses of Microorganisms
###### ยง 725.980 Expedited procedures for issuing significant new use rules for microorganisms subject to section 5(e) orders.
####### Direct final rulemaking.

(3)(i) EPA will use direct final rulemaking to issue a significant new use rule, when specific requirements will be based on and be consistent with the provisions included in the final order issued for the microorganism under section 5(e) of the Act. EPA will issue a final rule in thefollowing its decision to develop a significant new use rule under this section for a specific new microorganism.

(ii) Thedocument will state that, unless written notice is received by EPA within 30 days of publication that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the rule will be effective 60 days from the date of publication. The written notice of intent to submit adverse or critical comments should state which SNUR(s) will be the subject of the adverse or critical comments, if several SNURs are established through the direct final rule. If notice is received within 30 days that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the section(s) of the direct final rule containing the SNUR(s) for which a notice of intent to comment was received will be withdrawn by EPA issuing a document in the final rule section of theand a proposal will be published in the proposed rule section of theThe proposal will establish a 30-day comment period.

(iii) If EPA, having considered any timely comments submitted in response to the proposal, decides to establish notification requirements under this section, EPA will issue a final rule adding the microorganism to subpart M of this part and designating the significant new uses subject to notification.
