
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 725 - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESSES FOR MICROORGANISMS
##### Subpart L - Additional Procedures for Reporting on Significant New Uses of Microorganisms
###### ยง 725.984 Modification or revocation of certain notification requirements.
####### Procedures for limitation or revocation.

(b)Modification or revocation of significant new use notification requirements for a microorganism that has been added to subpart M of this part using the procedures described in ยง 725.980 may occur either at EPA's initiative or in response to a written request.

(1) Any affected person may request modification or revocation of significant new use notification requirements for a microorganism that has been added to subpart M of this part using the procedures described in ยง 725.980. The request must be accompanied by information sufficient to support the request. Persons submitting a request to EPA under this part must submit the request to EPA (via CDX) using e-PMN software. See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software. Support documents related to these requests must also be submitted to EPA via CDX using e-PMN software.

(2) The Director, or a designee, will consider the request, make a determination whether to initiate rulemaking to modify the requirements, and notify the requester of that determination by certified letter. If the request is denied, the letter will explain why EPA has concluded that the significant new use notification requirements for that microorganism should remain in effect.

(3) If EPA concludes that significant new use notification requirements for a microorganism should be limited or revoked, EPA will propose the changes in a notice in thebriefly describe the grounds for the action, and provide interested parties an opportunity to comment.
