
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart E - Residential Property Renovation
###### ยง 745.84 Information distribution requirements.
####### Comply with one of the following.

(2)(i) Notify in writing, or ensure written notification of, each affected unit and make the pamphlet available upon request prior to the start of renovation. Such notification shall be accomplished by distributing written notice to each affected unit. The notice shall describe the general nature and locations of the planned renovation activities; the expected starting and ending dates; and a statement of how the occupant can obtain the pamphlet and a copy of the records required by ยง 745.86(c) and (d), at no cost to the occupants, or

(ii) While the renovation is ongoing, post informational signs describing the general nature and locations of the renovation and the anticipated completion date. These signs must be posted in areas where they are likely to be seen by the occupants of all of the affected units. The signs must be accompanied by a posted copy of the pamphlet or information on how interested occupants can review a copy of the pamphlet or obtain a copy from the renovation firm at no cost to occupants. The signs must also include information on how interested occupants can review a copy of the records required by ยง 745.86(c) and (d) or obtain a copy from the renovation firm at no cost to the occupants.

(3) Prepare, sign, and date a statement describing the steps performed to notify all occupants of the intended renovation activities and to provide the pamphlet.

(4) If the scope, locations, or expected starting and ending dates of the planned renovation activities change after the initial notification, and the firm provided written initial notification to each affected unit, the firm performing the renovation must provide further written notification to the owners and occupants providing revised information on the ongoing or planned activities. This subsequent notification must be provided before the firm performing the renovation initiates work beyond that which was described in the original notice.
