
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart E - Residential Property Renovation
###### ยง 745.84 Information distribution requirements.
####### Renovations in child-occupied facilities.

(c)No more than 60 days before beginning renovation activities in any child-occupied facility, the firm performing the renovation must:

(1)(i) Provide the owner of the building with the pamphlet, and comply with one of the following:

(A) Obtain, from the owner, a written acknowledgment that the owner has received the pamphlet.

(B) Obtain a certificate of mailing at least 7 days prior to the renovation.

(ii) If the child-occupied facility is not the owner of the building, provide an adult representative of the child-occupied facility with the pamphlet, and comply with one of the following:

(A) Obtain, from the adult representative, a written acknowledgment that the adult representative has received the pamphlet; or certify in writing that a pamphlet has been delivered to the facility and that the firm performing the renovation has been unsuccessful in obtaining a written acknowledgment from an adult representative. Such certification must include the address of the child-occupied facility undergoing renovation, the date and method of delivery of the pamphlet, names of the persons delivering the pamphlet, reason for lack of acknowledgment (e.g., representative refuses to sign), the signature of a representative of the firm performing the renovation, and the date of signature.

(B) Obtain a certificate of mailing at least 7 days prior to the renovation.

(2) Provide the parents and guardians of children using the child-occupied facility with the pamphlet, information describing the general nature and locations of the renovation and the anticipated completion date, and information on how interested parents or guardians of children frequenting the child-occupied facility can review a copy of the records required by ยง 745.86(c) and (d) or obtain a copy from the renovation firm at no cost to the occupants by complying with one of the following:

(i) Mail or hand-deliver the pamphlet and the renovation information to each parent or guardian of a child using the child-occupied facility.

(ii) While the renovation is ongoing, post informational signs describing the general nature and locations of the renovation and the anticipated completion date. These signs must be posted in areas where they can be seen by the parents or guardians of the children frequenting the child-occupied facility. The signs must be accompanied by a posted copy of the pamphlet or information on how interested parents or guardians of children frequenting the child-occupied facility can review a copy of the pamphlet or obtain a copy from the renovation firm at no cost to the parents or guardians. The signs must also include information on how interested parents or guardians of children frequenting the child-occupied facility can review a copy of the records required by ยง 745.86(c) and (d) or obtain a copy from the renovation firm at no cost to the parents or guardians.

(3) The renovation firm must prepare, sign, and date a statement describing the steps performed to notify all parents and guardians of the intended renovation activities and to provide the pamphlet.
