
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart E - Residential Property Renovation
###### ยง 745.90 Renovator certification and dust sampling technician certification.
####### Renovator certification and dust sampling technician certification.

(a)(1) To become a certified renovator or certified dust sampling technician, an individual must successfully complete the appropriate course accredited by EPA under ยง 745.225 or by a State or Tribal program that is authorized under subpart Q of this part. The course completion certificate serves as proof of certification. EPA renovator certification allows the certified individual to perform renovations covered by this section in any State or Indian Tribal area that does not have a renovation program that is authorized under subpart Q of this part. EPA dust sampling technician certification allows the certified individual to perform dust clearance sampling under ยง 745.85(c) in any State or Indian Tribal area that does not have a renovation program that is authorized under subpart Q of this part.

(2) Individuals who have successfully completed an accredited abatement worker or supervisor course, or individuals who successfully completed an EPA, HUD, or EPA/HUD model renovation training course before October 4, 2011 may take an accredited refresher renovator training course that includes hands-on training in lieu of the initial renovator training course to become a certified renovator.

(3) Individuals who have successfully completed an accredited lead-based paint inspector or risk assessor course October 4, 2011 may take an accredited refresher dust sampling technician course in lieu of the initial training to become a certified dust sampling technician. Individuals who are currently certified as lead-based paint inspectors or risk assessors may act as certified dust sampling technicians without further training.

(4) To maintain renovator certification or dust sampling technician certification, an individual must complete a renovator or dust sampling technician refresher course accredited by EPA under ยง 745.225 or by a State or Tribal program that is authorized under subpart Q of this part within 5 years of the date the individual completed the initial course described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the individual does not complete a refresher course within this time, the individual must re-take the initial course to become certified again. Individuals who complete a renovator course accredited by EPA or an EPA authorized program on or before March 31, 2010, must complete a renovator refresher course accredited by EPA or an EPA authorized program on or before March 31, 2016, to maintain renovator certification. Individuals who completed a renovator course accredited by EPA or an EPA authorized program between April 1, 2010 and March 31, 2011, will have one year added to their original 5-year certification. Individuals who take a renovator refresher course that does not include hands-on training will be certified for 3 years from the date they complete the training. Individuals who take a refresher training course that includes hands-on training will be certified for 5 years. Individuals who take the renovator refresher without hands-on training must, for their next refresher course, take a refresher course that includes hands-on training to maintain renovator certification.
