
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart E - Residential Property Renovation
###### § 745.90 Renovator certification and dust sampling technician certification.
####### Renovator responsibilities.

(b)Certified renovators are responsible for ensuring compliance with § 745.85 at all renovations to which they are assigned. A certified renovator:

(1) Must perform all of the tasks described in § 745.85(b) and must either perform or direct workers who perform all of the tasks described in § 745.85(a).

(2) Must provide training to workers on the work practices required by § 745.85(a) that they will be using in performing their assigned tasks.

(3) Must be physically present at the work site when the signs required by § 745.85(a)(1) are posted, while the work area containment required by § 745.85(a)(2) is being established, and while the work area cleaning required by § 745.85(a)(5) is performed.

(4) Must regularly direct work being performed by other individuals to ensure that the work practices required by § 745.85(a) are being followed, including maintaining the integrity of the containment barriers and ensuring that dust or debris does not spread beyond the work area.

(5) Must be available, either on-site or by telephone, at all times that renovations are being conducted.

(6) When requested by the party contracting for renovation services, must use an acceptable test kit to determine whether components to be affected by the renovation contain lead-based paint.

(7) Must have with them at the work site copies of their initial course completion certificate and their most recent refresher course completion certificate.

(8) Must prepare the records required by § 745.86(b)(1)(ii) and (6).
