
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart E - Residential Property Renovation
###### ยง 745.89 Firm certification.
####### EPA action on an application.

(2)After EPA receives a firm's application for re-certification, EPA will review the application and take one of the following actions within 90 days of receipt:

(i) EPA will approve a firm's application if EPA determines that it is timely and complete and that the environmental compliance history of the firm, its principals, or its key employees does not show an unwillingness or inability to maintain compliance with environmental statutes or regulations. When EPA approves a firm's application for re-certification, EPA will issue the firm a new certificate with an expiration date 5 years from the date that the firm's current certification expires. EPA certification allows the firm to perform renovations or dust sampling covered by this section in any State or Indian Tribal area that does not have a renovation program that is authorized under subpart Q of this part.

(ii) EPA will request a firm to supplement its application if EPA determines that the application is incomplete.

(iii) EPA will not approve a firm's application if it is not received or is not complete as of the date that the firm's current certification expires, or if EPA determines that the environmental compliance history of the firm, its principals, or its key employees demonstrates an unwillingness or inability to maintain compliance with environmental statutes or regulations. EPA will send the firm a letter giving the reason for not approving the application. EPA will not refund the application fees. A firm may reapply for certification at any time by filing a new application and paying the correct amount of fees.
