
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.225 Accreditation of training programs: target housing and child occupied facilities.
####### Application process.

(b)The following are procedures a training program must follow to receive EPA accreditation to offer lead-based paint activities courses, renovator courses, or dust sampling technician courses:

(1) A training program seeking accreditation shall submit a written application to EPA containing the following information:

(i) The training program's name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) A list of courses for which it is applying for accreditation. For the purposes of this section, courses taught in different languages and electronic learning courses are considered different courses, and each must independently meet the accreditation requirements.

(iii) The name and documentation of the qualifications of the training program manager.

(iv) The name(s) and documentation of qualifications of any principal instructor(s).

(v) A statement signed by the training program manager certifying that the training program meets the requirements established in paragraph (c) of this section. If a training program uses EPA-recommended model training materials, or training materials approved by a State or Indian Tribe that has been authorized by EPA under subpart Q of this part, the training program manager shall include a statement certifying that, as well.

(vi) If a training program does not use EPA-recommended model training materials, its application for accreditation shall also include:

(A) A copy of the student and instructor manuals, or other materials to be used for each course.

(B) A copy of the course agenda for each course.

(C) When applying for accreditation of a course in a language other than English, a signed statement from a qualified, independent translator that they had compared the course to the English language version and found the translation to be accurate.

(vii) All training programs shall include in their application for accreditation the following:

(A) A description of the facilities and equipment to be used for lecture and hands-on training.

(B) A copy of the course test blueprint for each course.

(C) A description of the activities and procedures that will be used for conducting the assessment of hands-on skills for each course.

(D) A copy of the quality control plan as described in paragraph (c)(9) of this section.

(2) If a training program meets the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, then EPA shall approve the application for accreditation no more than 180 days after receiving a complete application from the training program. In the case of approval, a certificate of accreditation shall be sent to the applicant. In the case of disapproval, a letter describing the reasons for disapproval shall be sent to the applicant. Prior to disapproval, EPA may, at its discretion, work with the applicant to address inadequacies in the application for accreditation. EPA may also request additional materials retained by the training program under paragraph (i) of this section. If a training program's application is disapproved, the program may reapply for accreditation at any time.

(3) A training program may apply for accreditation to offer courses or refresher courses in as many disciplines as it chooses. A training program may seek accreditation for additional courses at any time as long as the program can demonstrate that it meets the requirements of this section.

(4) A training program applying for accreditation must submit the appropriate fees in accordance with ยง 745.238.
