
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.225 Accreditation of training programs: target housing and child occupied facilities.
####### Requirements for the accreditation of refresher training programs.

(e)A training program may seek accreditation to offer refresher training courses in any of the following disciplines: Inspector, risk assessor, supervisor, project designer, abatement worker, renovator, and dust sampling technician. A training program accredited by EPA to offer refresher training must meet the following minimum requirements:

(1) Each refresher course shall review the curriculum topics of the full-length courses listed under paragraph (d) of this section, as appropriate. In addition, to become accredited to offer refresher training courses, training programs shall ensure that their courses of study include, at a minimum, the following:

(i) An overview of current safety practices relating to lead-based paint in general, as well as specific information pertaining to the appropriate discipline.

(ii) Current laws and regulations relating to lead-based paint in general, as well as specific information pertaining to the appropriate discipline.

(iii) Current technologies relating to lead-based paint in general, as well as specific information pertaining to the appropriate discipline.

(2) Refresher courses for inspector, risk assessor, supervisor, and abatement worker must last a minimum of 8 training hours. Refresher courses for project designer, renovator, and dust sampling technician must last a minimum of 4 training hours. Refresher courses for all disciplines except renovator and project designer must include a hands-on component. Renovators must take a refresher course that includes hands-on training at least every other recertification.

(3) Except for renovator and project designer courses, for all other courses offered, the training program shall conduct a hands-on assessment. With the exception of project designer courses, the training program shall conduct a course test at the completion of the course. Renovators must take a refresher course that includes hands-on training at least every other recertification.

(4) A training program may apply for accreditation of a refresher course concurrently with its application for accreditation of the corresponding training course as described in paragraph (b) of this section. If so, EPA shall use the approval procedure described in paragraph (b) of this section. In addition, the minimum requirements contained in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5), (c)(6)(viii) and (c)(7) through (14), and (e)(1) through (3) of this section shall also apply.

(5) A training program seeking accreditation to offer refresher training courses only shall submit a written application to EPA containing the following information:

(i) The refresher training program's name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) A list of courses for which it is applying for accreditation.

(iii) The name and documentation of the qualifications of the training program manager.

(iv) The name(s) and documentation of the qualifications of the principal instructor(s).

(v) A statement signed by the training program manager certifying that the refresher training program meets the minimum requirements established in paragraph (c) of this section, except for the requirements in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. If a training program uses EPA-developed model training materials, or training materials approved by a State or Indian Tribe that has been authorized by EPA under ยง 745.324 to develop its refresher training course materials, the training manager shall include a statement certifying that, as well.

(vi) If the refresher training course materials are not based on EPA-developed model training materials, the training program's application for accreditation shall include:

(A) A copy of the student and instructor manuals to be used for each course.

(B) A copy of the course agenda for each course.

(vii) All refresher training programs shall include in their application for accreditation the following:

(A) A description of the facilities and equipment to be used for lecture and hands-on training.

(B) A copy of the course test blueprint for each course.

(C) A description of the activities and procedures that will be used for conducting the assessment of hands-on skills for each course (if applicable).

(D) A copy of the quality control plan as described in paragraph (c)(9) of this section.

(viii) The requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5), (c)(6)(viii) and (c)(7) through (14) of this section apply to refresher training providers.

(ix) If a refresher training program meets the requirements listed in this paragraph, then EPA shall approve the application for accreditation no more than 180 days after receiving a complete application from the refresher training program. In the case of approval, a certificate of accreditation shall be sent to the applicant. In the case of disapproval, a letter describing the reasons for disapproval shall be sent to the applicant. Prior to disapproval, EPA may, at its discretion, work with the applicant to address inadequacies in the application for accreditation. EPA may also request additional materials retained by the refresher training program under paragraph (i) of this section. If a refresher training program's application is disapproved, the program may reapply for accreditation at any time.
