
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.226 Certification of individuals and firms engaged in lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### Certification of individuals.

(a)(1) Individuals seeking certification by EPA to engage in lead-based paint activities must either:

(i) Submit to EPA an application demonstrating that they meet the requirements established in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section for the particular discipline for which certification is sought; or

(ii) Submit to EPA an application with a copy of a valid lead-based paint activities certification (or equivalent) from a State or Tribal program that has been authorized by EPA pursuant to subpart Q of this part.

(2) Individuals may first apply to EPA for certification to engage in lead-based paint activities pursuant to this section on or after March 1, 1999.

(3) Following the submission of an application demonstrating that all the requirements of this section have been meet, EPA shall certify an applicant as an inspector, risk assessor, supervisor, project designer, or abatement worker, as appropriate.

(4) Upon receiving EPA certification, individuals conducting lead-based paint activities shall comply with the work practice standards for performing the appropriate lead-based paint activities as established in ยง 745.227.

(5) It shall be a violation of TSCA for an individual to conduct any of the lead-based paint activities described in ยง 745.227 after March 1, 2000, if that individual has not been certified by EPA pursuant to this section to do so.

(6) Individuals applying for certification must submit the appropriate fees in accordance with ยง 745.238.
