
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.225 Accreditation of training programs: target housing and child occupied facilities.
####### Suspension, revocation, and modification of accredited training programs.

(g)(1) EPA may, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, suspend, revoke, or modify training program accreditation, including refresher training accreditation, if a training program, training manager, or other person with supervisory authority over the training program has:

(i) Misrepresented the contents of a training course to EPA and/or the student population.

(ii) Failed to submit required information or notifications in a timely manner.

(iii) Failed to maintain required records.

(iv) Falsified accreditation records, instructor qualifications, or other accreditation-related information or documentation.

(v) Failed to comply with the training standards and requirements in this section.

(vi) Failed to comply with Federal, State, or local lead-based paint statutes or regulations.

(vii) Made false or misleading statements to EPA in its application for accreditation or re-accreditation which EPA relied upon in approving the application.

(2) In addition to an administrative or judicial finding of violation, execution of a consent agreement in settlement of an enforcement action constitutes, for purposes of this section, evidence of a failure to comply with relevant statutes or regulations.
