
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.225 Accreditation of training programs: target housing and child occupied facilities.
####### Training program recordkeeping requirements.

(i)(1) Accredited training programs shall maintain, and make available to EPA, upon request, the following records:

(i) All documents specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section that demonstrate the qualifications listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section of the training manager and principal instructors.

(ii) Current curriculum/course materials and documents reflecting any changes made to these materials.

(iii) The course test blueprint.

(iv) Information regarding how the hands-on assessment is conducted including, but not limited to:

(A) Who conducts the assessment.

(B) How the skills are graded.

(C) What facilities are used.

(D) The pass/fail rate.

(v) The quality control plan as described in paragraph (c)(9) of this section.

(vi) Results of the students' hands-on skills assessments and course tests, and a record of each student's course completion certificate.

(vii) Any other material not listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(vi) of this section that was submitted to EPA as part of the program's application for accreditation.

(viii) For renovator refresher and dust sampling technician refresher courses, a copy of each trainee's prior course completion certificate showing that each trainee was eligible to take the refresher course.

(ix) For course modules delivered in an electronic format, a record of each student's log-ins, launches, progress, and completion, and a copy of the electronic learning completion certificate for each student.

(2) The training program must retain records pertaining to renovator, dust sampling technician and lead-based paint activities courses at the address specified on the training program accreditation application (or as modified in accordance with paragraph (i)(3) of this section) for the following minimum periods:

(i) Records pertaining to lead-based paint activities courses must be retained for a minimum of 3 years and 6 months.

(ii) Records pertaining to renovator or dust sampling technician courses offered before April 22, 2010 must be retained until July 1, 2015.

(iii) Records pertaining to renovator or dust sampling technician courses offered on or after April 22, 2010 must be retained for a minimum of 5 years.

(3) The training program shall notify EPA in writing within 30 days of changing the address specified on its training program accreditation application or transferring the records from that address.
