
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.225 Accreditation of training programs: target housing and child occupied facilities.
####### Re-accreditation of training programs.

(f)(1) Unless re-accredited, a training program's accreditation, including refresher training accreditation, shall expire 4 years after the date of issuance. If a training program meets the requirements of this section, the training program shall be reaccredited.

(2) A training program seeking re-accreditation shall submit an application to EPA no later than 180 days before its accreditation expires. If a training program does not submit its application for re-accreditation by that date, EPA cannot guarantee that the program will be re-accredited before the end of the accreditation period.

(3) The training program's application for re-accreditation shall contain:

(i) The training program's name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) A list of courses for which it is applying for re-accreditation.

(iii) The name and qualifications of the training program manager.

(iv) The name(s) and qualifications of the principal instructor(s).

(v) A description of any changes to the training facility, equipment or course materials since its last application was approved that adversely affects the students' ability to learn.

(vi) A statement signed by the program manager stating:

(A) That the training program complies at all times with all requirements in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section, as applicable; and

(B) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements of paragraph (i) of this section shall be followed.

(vii) A payment of appropriate fees in accordance with ยง 745.238.

(4) Upon request, the training program shall allow EPA to audit the training program to verify the contents of the application for re-accreditation as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
