
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.226 Certification of individuals and firms engaged in lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### 2

() At least 2 years of experience in a related field (e.g., lead, asbestos, or environmental remediation work) or in the building trades.

(2) The following documents shall be recognized by EPA as evidence of meeting the requirements listed in (b)(2)(iii) of this paragraph:

(i) Official academic transcripts or diploma, as evidence of meeting the education requirements.

(ii) Resumes, letters of reference, or documentation of work experience, as evidence of meeting the work experience requirements.

(iii) Course completion certificates from lead-specific or other related training courses, issued by accredited training programs, as evidence of meeting the training requirements.

(3) In order to take the certification examination for a particular discipline an individual must:

(i) Successfully complete an accredited course in the appropriate discipline and receive a course completion certificate from an accredited training program.

(ii) Meet or exceed the education and/or experience requirements in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.

(4) The course completion certificate shall serve as interim certification for an individual until the next available opportunity to take the certification exam. Such interim certification shall expire 6 months after issuance.

(5) After passing the appropriate certification exam and submitting an application demonstrating that he/she meets the appropriate training, education, and/or experience prerequisites described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an individual shall be issued a certificate by EPA. To maintain certification, an individual must be re-certified as described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(6) An individual may take the certification exam no more than three times within 6 months of receiving a course completion certificate.

(7) If an individual does not pass the certification exam and receive a certificate within 6 months of receiving his/her course completion certificate, the individual must retake the appropriate course from an accredited training program before reapplying for certification from EPA.
