
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### § 745.226 Certification of individuals and firms engaged in lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### Certification of firms.

(f)(1) All firms which perform or offer to perform any of the lead-based paint activities described in § 745.227 after March 1, 2000, shall be certified by EPA.

(2) A firm seeking certification shall submit to EPA a letter attesting that the firm shall only employ appropriately certified employees to conduct lead-based paint activities, and that the firm and its employees shall follow the work practice standards in § 745.227 for conducting lead-based paint activities.

(3) From the date of receiving the firm's letter requesting certification, EPA shall have 90 days to approve or disapprove the firm's request for certification. Within that time, EPA shall respond with either a certificate of approval or a letter describing the reasons for a disapproval.

(4) The firm shall maintain all records pursuant to the requirements in § 745.227.

(5) Firms may first apply to EPA for certification to engage in lead-based paint activities pursuant to this section on or after March 1, 1999.

(6) Firms applying for certification must submit the appropriate fees in accordance with § 745.238.

(7) To maintain certification a firm shall submit appropriate fees in accordance with § 745.238 every 3 years.
