
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.226 Certification of individuals and firms engaged in lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### Suspension, revocation, and modification of certifications of individuals engaged in lead-based paint activities.

(g)(1) EPA may, after notice and opportunity for hearing, suspend, revoke, or modify an individual's certification if an individual has:

(i) Obtained training documentation through fraudulent means.

(ii) Gained admission to and completed an accredited training program through misrepresentation of admission requirements.

(iii) Obtained certification through misrepresentation of certification requirements or related documents dealing with education, training, professional registration, or experience.

(iv) Performed work requiring certification at a job site without having proof of certification.

(v) Permitted the duplication or use of the individual's own certificate by another.

(vi) Performed work for which certification is required, but for which appropriate certification has not been received.

(vii) Failed to comply with the appropriate work practice standards for lead-based paint activities at ยง 745.227.

(viii) Failed to comply with Federal, State, or local lead-based paint statutes or regulations.

(2) In addition to an administrative or judicial finding of violation, for purposes of this section only, execution of a consent agreement in settlement of an enforcement action constitutes evidence of a failure to comply with relevant statutes or regulations.
