
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.226 Certification of individuals and firms engaged in lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### 3

() Four years of experience in building construction and design or a related field.

(2) The following documents shall be recognized by EPA as evidence of meeting the requirements listed in this paragraph:

(i) Official academic transcripts or diploma, as evidence of meeting the education requirements.

(ii) Resumes, letters of reference, or documentation of work experience, as evidence of meeting the work experience requirements.

(iii) Course completion certificates from lead-specific or other related training courses, issued by accredited training programs, as evidence of meeting the training requirements.

(3) The course completion certificate shall serve as an interim certification until certification from EPA is received, but shall be valid for no more than 6 months from the date of completion.

(4) After successfully completing the appropriate training courses and meeting any other qualifications described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an individual shall be issued a certificate from EPA. To maintain certification, an individual must be re-certified as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
