
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.226 Certification of individuals and firms engaged in lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### Certification based on prior training.

(d)(1) Any individual who received training in a lead-based paint activity between October 1, 1990, and March 1, 1999 shall be eligible for certification by EPA under the alternative procedures contained in this paragraph. Individuals who have received lead-based paint activities training at an EPA-authorized State or Tribal accredited training program shall also be eligible for certification by EPA under the following alternative procedures:

(i) Applicants for certification as an inspector, risk assessor, or supervisor shall:

(A) Demonstrate that the applicant has successfully completed training or on-the-job training in the conduct of a lead-based paint activity.

(B) Demonstrate that the applicant meets or exceeds the education and/or experience requirements in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.

(C) Successfully complete an accredited refresher training course for the appropriate discipline.

(D) Pass a certification exam administered by EPA for the appropriate discipline.

(ii) Applicants for certification as an abatement worker or project designer shall:

(A) Demonstrate that the applicant has successfully completed training or on-the-job training in the conduct of a lead-based paint activity.

(B) Demonstrate that the applicant meets the education and/or experience requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) of this section; and

(C) Successfully complete an accredited refresher training course for the appropriate discipline.

(2) Individuals shall have until March 1, 2000, to apply to EPA for certification under the above procedures. After that date, all individuals wishing to obtain certification must do so through the procedures described in paragraph (a), and paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, according to the discipline for which certification is being sought.
