
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### § 745.227 Work practice standards for conducting lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### http://www.epa.gov/lead.

(vii) Notification must be accomplished using any of the following methods: Written notification, or electronically using the Agency's Central Data Exchange (CDX). Written notification can be accomplished using either the sample form titled "Notification of Lead-Based Paint Abatement Activities" or similar form containing the information required in paragraph (e)(4)(vi) of this section. All written notifications must be delivered by U.S. Postal Service, fax, commercial delivery service, or hand delivery (persons submitting notification by U.S. Postal Service are reminded that they should allow 3 additional business days for delivery in order to ensure that EPA receives the notification by the required date). Instructions and sample forms can be obtained from the NLIC at 1-800-424-LEAD(5323), or on the Internet at

(viii) Lead-based paint abatement activities shall not begin on a date, or at a location other than that specified in either an original or updated notification, in the event of changes to the original notification.

(ix) No firm or individual shall engage in lead-based paint abatement activities, as defined in § 745.223, prior to notifying EPA of such activities according to the requirements of this paragraph.

(5) A written occupant protection plan shall be developed for all abatement projects and shall be prepared according to the following procedures:

(i) The occupant protection plan shall be unique to each residential dwelling or child-occupied facility and be developed prior to the abatement. The occupant protection plan shall describe the measures and management procedures that will be taken during the abatement to protect the building occupants from exposure to any lead-based paint hazards.

(ii) A certified supervisor or project designer shall prepare the occupant protection plan.

(6) The work practices listed below shall be restricted during an abatement as follows:

(i) Open-flame burning or torching of lead-based paint is prohibited;

(ii) Machine sanding or grinding or abrasive blasting or sandblasting of lead-based paint is prohibited unless used with High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) exhaust control which removes particles of 0.3 microns or larger from the air at 99.97 percent or greater efficiency;

(iii) Dry scraping of lead-based paint is permitted only in conjunction with heat guns or around electrical outlets or when treating defective paint spots totaling no more than 2 square feet in any one room, hallway or stairwell or totaling no more than 20 square feet on exterior surfaces; and

(iv) Operating a heat gun on lead-based paint is permitted only at temperatures below 1100 degrees Fahrenheit.

(7) If conducted, soil abatement shall be conducted in one of the following ways:

(i) If the soil is removed:

(A) The soil shall be replaced by soil with a lead concentration as close to local background as practicable, but no greater than 400 ppm.

(B) The soil that is removed shall not be used as top soil at another residential property or child-occupied facility.

(ii) If soil is not removed, the soil shall be permanently covered, as defined in § 745.223.

(8) The following post-abatement clearance procedures shall be performed only by a certified inspector or risk assessor:

(i) Following an abatement, a visual inspection shall be performed to determine if deteriorated painted surfaces and/or visible amounts of dust, debris or residue are still present. If deteriorated painted surfaces or visible amounts of dust, debris or residue are present, these conditions must be eliminated prior to the continuation of the clearance procedures.

(ii) Following the visual inspection and any post-abatement cleanup required by paragraph (e)(8)(i) of this section, clearance sampling for lead in dust shall be conducted. Clearance sampling may be conducted by employing single-surface sampling or composite sampling techniques.

(iii) Dust samples for clearance purposes shall be taken using documented methodologies that incorporate adequate quality control procedures.

(iv) Dust samples for clearance purposes shall be taken a minimum of 1 hour after completion of final post-abatement cleanup activities.

(v) The following post-abatement clearance activities shall be conducted as appropriate based upon the extent or manner of abatement activities conducted in or to the residential dwelling or child-occupied facility:

(A) After conducting an abatement with containment between abated and unabated areas, one dust sample shall be taken from one interior window sill and from one window trough (if present) and one dust sample shall be taken from the floors of each of no less than four rooms, hallways or stairwells within the containment area. In addition, one dust sample shall be taken from the floor outside the containment area. If there are less than four rooms, hallways or stairwells within the containment area, then all rooms, hallways or stairwells shall be sampled.

(B) After conducting an abatement with no containment, two dust samples shall be taken from each of no less than four rooms, hallways or stairwells in the residential dwelling or child-occupied facility. One dust sample shall be taken from one interior window sill and window trough (if present) and one dust sample shall be taken from the floor of each room, hallway or stairwell selected. If there are less than four rooms, hallways or stairwells within the residential dwelling or child-occupied facility then all rooms, hallways or stairwells shall be sampled.

(C) Following an exterior paint abatement, a visible inspection shall be conducted. All horizontal surfaces in the outdoor living area closest to the abated surface shall be found to be cleaned of visible dust and debris. In addition, a visual inspection shall be conducted to determine the presence of paint chips on the dripline or next to the foundation below any exterior surface abated. If paint chips are present, they must be removed from the site and properly disposed of, according to all applicable Federal, State and local requirements.

(vi) The rooms, hallways or stairwells selected for sampling shall be selected according to documented methodologies.

(vii) The certified inspector or risk assessor shall compare the residual lead level (as determined by the laboratory analysis) from each single surface dust sample with clearance levels in paragraph (e)(8)(viii) of this section for lead in dust on floors, interior window sills, and window troughs or from each composite dust sample with the applicable clearance levels for lead in dust on floors, interior window sills, and window troughs divided by half the number of subsamples in the composite sample. If the residual lead level in a single surface dust sample equals or exceeds the applicable clearance level or if the residual lead level in a composite dust sample equals or exceeds the applicable clearance level divided by half the number of subsamples in the composite sample, the components represented by the failed sample shall be recleaned and retested.

(viii) The clearance levels for lead in dust are 10 µg/ftfor floors, 100 µg/ftfor interior window sills, and 400 µg/ftfor window troughs.

(9) In a multi-family dwelling with similarly constructed and maintained residential dwellings, random sampling for the purposes of clearance may be conducted provided:

(i) The certified individuals who abate or clean the residential dwellings do not know which residential dwelling will be selected for the random sample.

(ii) A sufficient number of residential dwellings are selected for dust sampling to provide a 95 percent level of confidence that no more than 5 percent or 50 of the residential dwellings (whichever is smaller) in the randomly sampled population exceed the appropriate clearance levels.

(iii) The randomly selected residential dwellings shall be sampled and evaluated for clearance according to the procedures found in paragraph (e)(8) of this section.

(10) An abatement report shall be prepared by a certified supervisor or project designer. The abatement report shall include the following information:

(i) Start and completion dates of abatement.

(ii) The name and address of each certified firm conducting the abatement and the name of each supervisor assigned to the abatement project.

(iii) The occupant protection plan prepared pursuant to paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(iv) The name, address, and signature of each certified risk assessor or inspector conducting clearance sampling and the date of clearance testing.

(v) The results of clearance testing and all soil analyses (if applicable) and the name of each recognized laboratory that conducted the analyses.

(vi) A detailed written description of the abatement, including abatement methods used, locations of rooms and/or components where abatement occurred, reason for selecting particular abatement methods for each component, and any suggested monitoring of encapsulants or enclosures.
