
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.227 Work practice standards for conducting lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### Lead hazard screen.

(c)(1) A lead hazard screen shall be conducted only by a person certified by EPA as a risk assessor.

(2) If conducted, a lead hazard screen shall be conducted as follows:

(i) Background information regarding the physical characteristics of the residential dwelling or child-occupied facility and occupant use patterns that may cause lead-based paint exposure to one or more children age 6 years and under shall be collected.

(ii) A visual inspection of the residential dwelling or child-occupied facility shall be conducted to:

(A) Determine if any deteriorated paint is present, and

(B) Locate at least two dust sampling locations.

(iii) If deteriorated paint is present, each surface with deteriorated paint, which is determined, using documented methodologies, to be in poor condition and to have a distinct painting history, shall be tested for the presence of lead.

(iv) In residential dwellings, two composite dust samples shall be collected, one from the floors and the other from the windows, in rooms, hallways or stairwells where one or more children, age 6 and under, are most likely to come in contact with dust.

(v) In multi-family dwellings and child-occupied facilities, in addition to the floor and window samples required in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, the risk assessor shall also collect composite dust samples from common areas where one or more children, age 6 and under, are most likely to come into contact with dust.

(3) Dust samples shall be collected and analyzed in the following manner:

(i) All dust samples shall be taken using documented methodologies that incorporate adequate quality control procedures.

(ii) All collected dust samples shall be analyzed according to paragraph (f) of this section to determine if they contain detectable levels of lead that can be quantified numerically.

(4) Paint shall be sampled in the following manner:

(i) The analysis of paint to determine the presence of lead shall be conducted using documented methodologies which incorporate adequate quality control procedures; and/or

(ii) All collected paint chip samples shall be analyzed according to paragraph (f) of this section to determine if they contain detectable levels of lead that can be quantified numerically.

(5) The risk assessor shall prepare a lead hazard screen report, which shall include the following information:

(i) The information required in a risk assessment report as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, including paragraphs (d)(11)(i) through (d)(11)(xiv), and excluding paragraphs (d)(11)(xv) through (d)(11)(xviii) of this section. Additionally, any background information collected pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section shall be included in the risk assessment report; and

(ii) Recommendations, if warranted, for a follow-up risk assessment, and as appropriate, any further actions.
