
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.226 Certification of individuals and firms engaged in lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### Procedures for suspension, revocation, or modification of the certification of individuals or firms.

(i)(1) If EPA decides to suspend, revoke, or modify the certification of any individual or firm, it shall notify the affected entity in writing of the following:

(i) The legal and factual basis for the suspension, revocation, or modification.

(ii) The commencement date and duration of the suspension, revocation, or modification.

(iii) Actions, if any, which the affected entity may take to avoid suspension, revocation, or modification or to receive certification in the future.

(iv) The opportunity and method for requesting a hearing prior to final EPA action to suspend, revoke, or modify certification.

(v) Any additional information, as appropriate, which EPA may provide.

(2) If a hearing is requested by the certified individual or firm, EPA shall:

(i) Provide the affected entity an opportunity to offer written statements in response to EPA's assertion of the legal and factual basis and any other explanations, comments, and arguments it deems relevant to the proposed action.

(ii) Provide the affected entity such other procedural opportunities as EPA may deem appropriate to ensure a fair and impartial hearing.

(iii) Appoint an official of EPA as Presiding Officer to conduct the hearing. No person shall serve as Presiding Officer if he or she has had any prior connection with the specific matter.

(3) The Presiding Officer shall:

(i) Conduct a fair, orderly, and impartial hearing within 90 days of the request for a hearing;

(ii) Consider all relevant evidence, explanation, comment, and argument submitted; and

(iii) Notify the affected entity in writing within 90 days of completion of the hearing of his or her decision and order. Such an order is a final EPA action subject to judicial review.

(4) If EPA determines that the public health, interest, or welfare warrants immediate action to suspend the certification of any individual or firm prior to the opportunity for a hearing, it shall:

(i) Notify the affected entity of its intent to immediately suspend certification for the reasons listed in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. If a suspension, revocation, or modification notice has not previously been issued, it shall be issued at the same time the immediate suspension notice is issued.

(ii) Notify the affected entity in writing of the grounds upon which the immediate suspension is based and why it is necessary to suspend the entity's accreditation before an opportunity for a hearing to suspend, revoke, or modify the individual's or firm's certification.

(iii) Notify the affected entity of the commencement date and duration of the immediate suspension.

(iv) Notify the affected entity of its right to request a hearing on the immediate suspension within 15 days of the suspension taking place and the procedures for the conduct of such a hearing.

(5) Any notice, decision, or order issued by EPA under this section, transcript or other verbatim record of oral testimony, and any documents filed by a certified individual or firm in a hearing under this section shall be available to the public, except as otherwise provided by section 14 of TSCA or by part 2 of this title. Any such hearing at which oral testimony is presented shall be open to the public, except that the Presiding Officer may exclude the public to the extent necessary to allow presentation of information which may be entitled to confidential treatment under section 14 of TSCA or part 2 of this title.
