
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.227 Work practice standards for conducting lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### Inspection.

(b)(1) An inspection shall be conducted only by a person certified by EPA as an inspector or risk assessor and, if conducted, must be conducted according to the procedures in this paragraph.

(2) When conducting an inspection, the following locations shall be selected according to documented methodologies and tested for the presence of lead-based paint:

(i) In a residential dwelling and child-occupied facility, each component with a distinct painting history and each exterior component with a distinct painting history shall be tested for lead-based paint, except those components that the inspector or risk assessor determines to have been replaced after 1978, or to not contain lead-based paint; and

(ii) In a multi-family dwelling or child-occupied facility, each component with a distinct painting history in every common area, except those components that the inspector or risk assessor determines to have been replaced after 1978, or to not contain lead-based paint.

(3) Paint shall be sampled in the following manner:

(i) The analysis of paint to determine the presence of lead shall be conducted using documented methodologies which incorporate adequate quality control procedures; and/or

(ii) All collected paint chip samples shall be analyzed according to paragraph (f) of this section to determine if they contain detectable levels of lead that can be quantified numerically.

(4) The certified inspector or risk assessor shall prepare an inspection report which shall include the following information:

(i) Date of each inspection.

(ii) Address of building.

(iii) Date of construction.

(iv) Apartment numbers (if applicable).

(v) Name, address, and telephone number of the owner or owners of each residential dwelling or child-occupied facility.

(vi) Name, signature, and certification number of each certified inspector and/or risk assessor conducting testing.

(vii) Name, address, and telephone number of the certified firm employing each inspector and/or risk assessor, if applicable.

(viii) Each testing method and device and/or sampling procedure employed for paint analysis, including quality control data and, if used, the serial number of any x-ray fluorescence (XRF) device.

(ix) Specific locations of each painted component tested for the presence of lead-based paint.

(x) The results of the inspection expressed in terms appropriate to the sampling method used.
