
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart L - Lead-Based Paint Activities
###### ยง 745.227 Work practice standards for conducting lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-occupied facilities.
####### Abatement.

(e)(1) An abatement shall be conducted only by an individual certified by EPA, and if conducted, shall be conducted according to the procedures in this paragraph.

(2) A certified supervisor is required for each abatement project and shall be onsite during all work site preparation and during the post-abatement cleanup of work areas. At all other times when abatement activities are being conducted, the certified supervisor shall be onsite or available by telephone, pager or answering service, and able to be present at the work site in no more than 2 hours.

(3) The certified supervisor and the certified firm employing that supervisor shall ensure that all abatement activities are conducted according to the requirements of this section and all other Federal, State and local requirements.

(4) A certified firm must notify EPA of lead-based paint abatement activities as follows:

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, EPA must be notified prior to conducting lead-based paint abatement activities. The original notification must be received by EPA at least 5 business days before the start date of any lead-based paint abatement activities.

(ii) Notification for lead-based paint abatement activities required in response to an elevated blood lead level (EBL) determination, or Federal, State, Tribal, or local emergency abatement order should be received by EPA as early as possible before, but must be received no later than the start date of the lead-based paint abatement activities. Should the start date and/or location provided to EPA change, an updated notification must be received by EPA on or before the start date provided to EPA. Documentation showing evidence of an EBL determination or a copy of the Federal/State/Tribal/local emergency abatement order must be included in the written notification to take advantage of this abbreviated notification period.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, updated notification must be provided to EPA for lead-based paint abatement activities that will begin on a date other than the start date specified in the original notification, as follows:

(A) For lead-based paint abatement activities beginning prior to the start date provided to EPA an updated notification must be received by EPA at least 5 business days before the new start date included in the notification.

(B) For lead-based paint abatement activities beginning after the start date provided to EPA an updated notification must be received by EPA on or before the start date provided to EPA.

(iv) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, updated notification must be provided to EPA for any change in location of lead-based paint abatement activities at least 5 business days prior to the start date provided to EPA.

(v) Updated notification must be provided to EPA when lead-based paint abatement activities are canceled, or when there are other significant changes including, but not limited to, when the square footage or acreage to be abated changes by more than 20%. This updated notification must be received by EPA on or before the start date provided to EPA, or if work has already begun, within 24 hours of the change.

(vi) The following must be included in each notification:

(A) Notification type (original, updated, cancellation).

(B) Date when lead-based paint abatement activities will start.

(C) Date when lead-based paint abatement activities will end (approximation using best professional judgement).

(D) Firm's name, EPA certification number, address, telephone number.

(E) Type of building (e.g., single family dwelling, multi-family dwelling, child-occupied facilities) on/in which abatement work will be performed.

(F) Property name (if applicable).

(G) Property address including apartment or unit number(s) (if applicable) for abatement work.

(H) Documentation showing evidence of an EBL determination or a copy of the Federal/State/Tribal/local emergency abatement order, if using the abbreviated time period as described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.

(I) Name and EPA certification number of the project supervisor.

(J) Approximate square footage/acreage to be abated.

(K) Brief description of abatement activities to be performed.

(L) Name, title, and signature of the representative of the certified firm who prepared the notification.
