
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart Q - State and Indian Tribal Programs
###### § 745.320 Scope and purpose.

(a) This subpart establishes the requirements that State or Tribal programs must meet for authorization by the Administrator to administer and enforce the standards, regulations, or other requirements established under TSCA section 402 and/or section 406 and establishes the procedures EPA will follow in approving, revising, and withdrawing approval of State or Tribal programs.

(b) For State or Tribal lead-based paint training and certification programs, a State or Indian Tribe may seek authorization to administer and enforce §§ 745.225, 745.226, and 745.227. The provisions of §§ 745.220, 745.223, 745.233, 745.235, 745.237, and 745.239 shall be applicable for the purposes of such program authorization.

(c) A State or Indian Tribe may seek authorization to administer and enforce all of the provisions of subpart E of this part, just the pre-renovation education provisions of subpart E of this part, or just the training, certification, accreditation, and work practice provisions of subpart E of this part. The provisions of §§ 745.324 and 745.326 apply for the purposes of such program authorizations.

(d) A State or Indian Tribe applying for program authorization may seek either interim approval or final approval of the compliance and enforcement portion of the State or Tribal lead-based paint program pursuant to the procedures at § 745.327(a).

(e) State or Tribal submissions for program authorization shall comply with the procedures set out in this subpart.

(f) Any State or Tribal program approved by the Administrator under this subpart shall at all times comply with the requirements of this subpart.

(g) In many cases States will lack authority to regulate activities in Indian Country. This lack of authority does not impair a State's ability to obtain full program authorization in accordance with this subpart. EPA will administer the program in Indian Country if neither the State nor Indian Tribe has been granted program authorization by EPA.
