
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart Q - State and Indian Tribal Programs
###### ยง 745.324 Authorization of State or Tribal programs.
####### Application content and procedures.

(a)(1) Any State or Indian Tribe that seeks authorization from EPA to administer and enforce the provisions of subpart E or subpart L of this part must submit an application to the Administrator in accordance with this paragraph.

(2) Before developing an application for authorization, a State or Indian Tribe shall disseminate a public notice of intent to seek such authorization and provide an opportunity for a public hearing.

(3) A State or Tribal application shall include:

(i) A transmittal letter from the State Governor or Tribal Chairperson (or equivalent official) requesting program approval.

(ii) A summary of the State or Tribal program. This summary will be used to provide notice to residents of the State or Tribe.

(iii) A description of the State or Tribal program in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(iv) An Attorney General's or Tribal Counsel's (or equivalent) statement in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(v) Copies of all applicable State or Tribal statutes, regulations, standards, and other materials that provide the State or Indian Tribe with the authority to administer and enforce a lead-based paint program.

(4) After submitting an application, the Agency will publish anotice that contains an announcement of the receipt of the State or Tribal application, the summary of the program as provided by the State or Tribe, and a request for public comments to be mailed to the appropriate EPA Regional Office. This comment period shall last for no less than 45 days. EPA will consider these comments during its review of the State or Tribal application.

(5) Within 60 days of submission of a State or Tribal application, EPA will, if requested, conduct a public hearing in each State or Indian Country seeking program authorization and will consider all comments submitted at that hearing during the review of the State or Tribal application.
