
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart Q - State and Indian Tribal Programs
###### § 745.324 Authorization of State or Tribal programs.
####### Program description.

(b)A State or Indian Tribe seeking to administer and enforce a program under this subpart must submit a description of the program. The description of the State or Tribal program must include:

(1)(i) The name of the State or Tribal agency that is or will be responsible for administering and enforcing the program, the name of the official in that agency designated as the point of contact with EPA, and addresses and phone numbers where this official can be contacted.

(ii) Where more than one agency is or will be responsible for administering and enforcing the program, the State or Indian Tribe must designate a primary agency to oversee and coordinate administration and enforcement of the program and serve as the primary contact with EPA.

(iii) In the event that more than one agency is or will be responsible for administering and enforcing the program, the application must also include a description of the functions to be performed by each agency. The desciption shall explain and how the program will be coordinated by the primary agency to ensure consistency and effective administration of the within the State or Indian Tribe.

(2) To demonstrate that the State or Tribal program is at least as protective as the Federal program, fulfilling the criteria in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the State or Tribal application must include:

(i) A description of the program that demonstrates that the program contains all of the elements specified in § 745.325, § 745.326, or both; and

(ii) An analysis of the State or Tribal program that compares the program to the Federal program in subpart E or subpart L of this part, or both. This analysis must demonstrate how the program is, in the State's or Indian Tribe's assessment, at least as protective as the elements in the Federal program at subpart E or subpart L of this part, or both. EPA will use this analysis to evaluate the protectiveness of the State or Tribal program in making its determination pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) To demonstrate that the State or Tribal program provides adequate enforcement, fulfilling the criteria in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, the State or Tribal application must include a description of the State or Tribal lead-based paint compliance and enforcement program that demonstrates that the program contains all of the elements specified at § 745.327. This description shall include copies of all policies, certifications, plans, reports, and other materials that demonstrate that the State or Tribal program contains all of the elements specified at § 745.327.

(4)(i) The program description for an Indian Tribe shall also include a map, legal description, or other information sufficient to identify the geographical extent of the territory over which the Indian Tribe exercises jurisdiction.

(ii) The program description for an Indian Tribe shall also include a demonstration that the Indian Tribe:

(A) Is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.

(B) has an existing government exercising substantial governmental duties and powers.

(C) has adequate civil regulatory jurisdiction (as shown in the Tribal legal certification in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) over the subject matter and entities regulated.

(D) is reasonably expected to be capable of administering the Federal program for which it is seeking authorization.

(iii) If the Administrator has previously determined that an Indian Tribe has met the prerequisites in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section for another EPA program, the Indian Tribe need provide only that information unique to the lead-based paint program required by paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(C) and (D) of this section.
