
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart Q - State and Indian Tribal Programs
###### ยง 745.324 Authorization of State or Tribal programs.
####### Withdrawal of authorization.

(i)(1) If EPA concludes that a State or Indian Tribe is not administering and enforcing an authorized program in compliance with the standards, regulations, and other requirements of sections 401 through 412 of TSCA and this subpart, the Administrator shall notify the primary agency for the State or Indian Tribe in writing and indicate EPA's intent to withdraw authorization of the program.

(2) The Notice of Intent to Withdraw shall:

(i) Identify the program aspects that EPA believes are inadequate and provide a factual basis for such findings.

(ii) Include copies of relevant documents.

(iii) Provide an opportunity for the State or Indian Tribe to respond either in writing or at a meeting with appropriate EPA officials.

(3) EPA may request that an informal conference be held between representatives of the State or Indian Tribe and EPA officials.

(4) Prior to issuance of a withdrawal, a State or Indian Tribe may request that EPA hold a public hearing. At this hearing, EPA, the State or Indian Tribe, and the public may present facts bearing on whether the State's or Indian Tribe's authorization should be withdrawn.

(5) If EPA finds that deficiencies warranting withdrawal did not exist or were corrected by the State or Indian Tribe, EPA may rescind its Notice of Intent to Withdraw authorization.

(6) Where EPA finds that deficiencies in the State or Tribal program exist that warrant withdrawal, an agreement to correct the deficiencies shall be jointly prepared by the State or Indian Tribe and EPA. The agreement shall describe the deficiencies found in the program, specify the steps the State or Indian Tribe has taken or will take to remedy the deficiencies, and establish a schedule, no longer than 180 days, for each remedial action to be initiated.

(7) If the State or Indian Tribe does not respond within 60 days of issuance of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw or an agreement is not reached within 180 days after EPA determines that a State or Indian Tribe is not in compliance with the Federal program, the Agency shall issue an order withdrawing the State's or Indian Tribe's authorization.

(8) By the date of such order, the Administrator will establish and enforce the provisions of subpart E or subpart L of this part, or both, as the Federal program for that State or Indian Country.
