
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart Q - State and Indian Tribal Programs
###### ยง 745.324 Authorization of State or Tribal programs.
####### Program certification.

(d)(1) At the time of submitting an application, a State may also certify to the Administrator that the State program meets the requirements contained in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(2) If this certification is contained in a State's application, the program shall be deemed to be authorized by EPA until such time as the Administrator disapproves the program application or withdraws the program authorization. A program shall not be deemed authorized pursuant to this subpart to the extent that jurisdiction is asserted over Indian Country, including non-member fee lands within an Indian reservation.

(3) If the application does not contain such certification, the State program will be authorized only after the Administrator authorizes the program in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) This certification shall take the form of a letter from the Governor or the Attorney General to the Administrator. The certification shall reference the program analysis in paragraph (b)(3) of this section as the basis for concluding that the State program is at least as protective as the Federal program, and provides adequate enforcement.
