
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart Q - State and Indian Tribal Programs
###### ยง 745.324 Authorization of State or Tribal programs.
####### Attorney General's statement.

(c)(1) A State or Indian Tribe must submit a written statement signed by the Attorney General or Tribal Counsel (or equivalent) certifying that the laws and regulations of the State or Indian Tribe provide adequate legal authority to administer and enforce the State or Tribal program. This statement shall include citations to the specific statutes and regulations providing that legal authority.

(2) The Tribal legal certification (the equivalent to the Attorney General's statement) may also be submitted and signed by an independent attorney retained by the Indian Tribe for representation in matters before EPA or the courts pertaining to the Indian Tribe's program. The certification shall include an assertion that the attorney has the authority to represent the Indian Tribe with respect to the Indian Tribe's authorization application.

(3) If a State application seeks approval of its program to operate in Indian Country, the required legal certification shall include an analysis of the applicant's authority to implement its provisions in Indian Country. The applicant shall include a map delineating the area over which it seeks to operate the program.
