
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart Q - State and Indian Tribal Programs
###### ยง 745.325 Lead-based paint activities: State and Tribal program requirements.
####### Work practice standards for the conduct of lead-based paint activities.

(d)The State or Indian Tribe must have requirements or standards that ensure that lead-based paint activities are conducted reliably, effectively, and safely. At a minimum the State's or Indian Tribe's work practice standards for conducting inspections, risk assessments, and abatements must contain the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section.

(1) The work practice standards for the inspection for the presence of lead-based paint must require that:

(i) Inspections are conducted only by individuals certified by the appropriate State or Tribal authority to conduct inspections.

(ii) Inspections are conducted in a way that identifies the presence of lead-based paint on painted surfaces within the interior or on the exterior of a residential dwelling or child-occupied facility.

(iii) Inspections are conducted in a way that uses documented methodologies that incorporate adequate quality control procedures.

(iv) A report is developed that clearly documents the results of the inspection.

(v) Records are retained by the certified inspector or the firm.

(2) The work practice standards for risk assessment must require that:

(i) Risk assessments are conducted only by individuals certified by the appropriate State or Tribal authority to conduct risk assessments.

(ii) Risk assessments are conducted in a way that identifies and reports the presence of lead-based paint hazards.

(iii) Risk assessments consist of, at least:

(A) An assessment, including a visual inspection, of the physical characteristics of the residential dwelling or child-occupied facility;

(B) Environmental sampling for lead in paint, dust, and soil;

(C) Environmental sampling requirements for lead in paint, dust, and soil that allow for comparison to the standards for lead-based paint hazards established or revised by the State or Indian Tribe pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section; and

(D) A determination of the presence of lead-based paint hazards made by comparing the results of visual inspection and environmental sampling to the standards for lead-based paint hazards established or revised by the State or Indian Tribe pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.

(iv) The program elements required in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(C) and (d)(2)(iii)(D) of this section shall be adopted in accordance with the schedule for the demonstration required in paragraph (e) of this section.

(v) The risk assessor develops a report that clearly presents the results of the assessment and recommendations for the control or elimination of all identified hazards.

(vi) The certified risk assessor or the firm retains the appropriate records.

(3) The work practice standards for abatement must require that:

(i) Abatements are conducted only by individuals certified by the appropriate State or Tribal authority to conduct or supervise abatements.

(ii) Abatements permanently eliminate lead-based paint hazards and are conducted in a way that does not increase the hazards of lead-based paint to the occupants of the dwelling or child-occupied facility.

(iii) Abatements include post-abatement lead in dust clearance sampling and conformance with clearance levels established or adopted by the State or Indian Tribe.

(iv) The abatement contractor develops a report that describes areas of the residential dwelling or child-occupied facility abated and the techniques employed.

(v) The certified abatement contractor or the firm retains appropriate records.
