
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart Q - State and Indian Tribal Programs
###### ยง 745.326 Renovation: State and Tribal program requirements.
####### Certification of individuals and/or renovation firms.

(d)To be considered at least as protective as the Federal program, the State or Tribal program must:

(1) Establish procedures and requirements that ensure that individuals who perform or direct renovations are properly trained. These procedures and requirements must include:

(i) A requirement that renovations be performed and directed by at least one individual who has been trained by an accredited training program.

(ii) Procedures and requirements for accredited refresher training for these individuals.

(iii) Procedures and requirements for individuals who have received accredited training to provide on-the-job training for those individuals who perform renovations but do not receive accredited training. A State and Tribal program is not required to include procedures and requirements for on-the-job training for renovation workers if the State or Tribal program requires accredited initial and refresher training for all persons who perform renovations.

(2) Establish procedures and requirements for the formal certification and re-certification of renovation firms.

(3) Establish procedures for the suspension, revocation, or modification of certifications.
