
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 745 - LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
##### Subpart Q - State and Indian Tribal Programs
###### ยง 745.327 State or Indian Tribal lead-based paint compliance and enforcement programs.
####### Final approval.

(2)Final approval of the compliance and enforcement program portion of a State or Tribal lead-based paint program can be granted by EPA either through the application process described at ยง 745.324(a), or, for States or Indian Tribes which previously received interim approval as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, through a separate application addressing only the compliance and enforcement program portion of a State or Tribal lead-based paint program.

(i) For the compliance and enforcement program to be considered adequate for final approval through the application described at ยง 745.324(a), a State or Indian Tribe must, in its application:

(A) Demonstrate it has the legal authority and ability to immediately implement the elements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(B) Submit a statement of resources which identifies what resources the State or Indian Tribe intends to devote to the administration of its lead-based paint compliance and enforcement program.

(C) Agree to submit to EPA the Summary on Progress and Performance of lead-based paint compliance and enforcement activities as described at paragraph (d) of this section.

(ii) For States or Indian Tribes which previously received interim approval as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, in order for the State or Tribal compliance and enforcement program to be considered adequate for final approval through a separate application addressing only the compliance and enforcement program portion of a State or Tribal lead-based paint program, a State or Indian Tribe must, in its application:

(A) Demonstrate that it has the legal authority and ability to immediately implement the elements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(B) Submit a statement which identifies the resources the State or Indian Tribe intends to devote to the administration of its lead-based paint compliance and enforcement program.

(C) Agree to submit to EPA the Summary on Progress and Performance of lead-based paint compliance and enforcement activities as described at paragraph (d) of this section.

(D) To the extent not previously submitted through the application described at ยง 745.324(a), submit copies of all applicable State or Tribal statutes, regulations, standards, and other material that provide the State or Indian Tribe with authority to administer and enforce the lead-based paint compliance and enforcement program, and copies of the policies, certifications, plans, reports, and any other documents that demonstrate that the program meets the requirements established in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
