
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 747 - METALWORKING FLUIDS
##### Subpart B - Specific Use Requirements for Certain Chemical Substances
###### ยง 747.195 Triethanolamine salt of a substituted organic acid.
####### insert distributor's trade name or other identifier for product containing P-84-310

(i) A letter that includes the following statements: A substance, identified generically as a triethanolamine salt of a substituted organic acid, contained in the product () has been regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency, at 40 CFR 747.195, as published in theof June 14, 1984. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. The regulation prohibits the addition of any nitrosating agent, including nitrites, to the triethanolamine salt of a substituted organic acid, when the substance is or could be used in metalworking fluids. The addition of nitrites or other nitrosating agents to this substance leads to formation of a substance known to cause cancer in laboratory animals. The triethanolamine salt of a substituted organic acid has been specifically designed to be used without nitrites. Consult the enclosed regulation for further information.

(ii) A copy of this ยง 747.195.

(2)(i) Any person who distributes in commerce a metalworking fluid containing P-84-310 must affix a label to each container containing the fluid.

(ii) The label shall contain a warning statement which shall consist only of the following language:

(iii) The first word of the warning statement shall be capitalized, and the type size for the first word shall be no smaller than six point type for a label five square inches or less in area, ten point type for a label above five but below ten square inches in area, twelve point type for a label above ten but below fifteen square inches in area, fourteen point type for a label above fifteen but below thirty square inches in area, or eighteen point type for a label over thirty square inches in area. The type size of the remainder of the warning statement shall be no smaller than six point type. All required label text shall be of sufficient prominence, and shall be placed with such conspicuousness relative to other label text and graphic material, to insure that the warning statement is read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use.
