
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 749 - WATER TREATMENT CHEMICALS
##### Subpart D - Air Conditioning and Cooling Systems
###### ยง 749.68 Hexavalent chromium-based water treatment chemicals in cooling systems.
####### Reporting.

(i)(1) Each person who distributes in commerce any hexavalent chromium-based water treatment chemicals for use in cooling systems shall report to the Regional Administrator of the EPA Region in which the distibutor headquarters is located. The report shall be postmarked not later than February 20, 1990, or 30 days after the person first begins the distribution in commerce of hexavalent chromium-based water treatment chemicals, whichever is later, and shall include:

(i) For the headquarters, the distributor name, address, telephone number, and the name of a contact.

(ii) For the shipment offices through which hexavalent chromium-based water treatment chemicals are sold for use in cooling systems, the distributor name, address, telephone number, and the name of a contact.

(2) The report identified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section shall be updated as changes occur in the distributor headquarters or shipment office information. The updated report shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator and postmarked no later than 10 calendar days after the change occurs.

(3) A person may assert a claim of confidentiality for any information submitted to EPA in connection with this rule. Any claim of confidentiality must accompany the information when submitted to EPA. Persons claiming information as confidential should do so by circling, bracketing, or underlining it and marking it with "CONFIDENTIAL." EPA will disclose information subject to a claim of confidentiality only to the extent permitted by section 14 of TSCA and 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. If a person does not assert a claim of confidentiality for information at the time it is submitted to EPA, EPA may make the information public without further notice to that person.
