
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 750 - PROCEDURES FOR RULEMAKING UNDER SECTION 6 OF THE TOXIC SUBSTANCES CONTROL ACT
##### Subpart B - Interim Procedural Rules for Manufacturing Exemptions
###### ยง 750.11 Filing of petitions for exemption.
####### Content of petition.

(c)Each petition shall contain the following:

(1) Name, address and telephone number of petitioner.

(2) Description of PCB ban exemption requested, including items to be manufactured and nature of manufacturing process-such as smelting.

(3) Location(s) of manufacturing sites requiring exemption.

(4) Length of time requested for exemption (maximum length of exemption is 1 year).

(5) Amount of PCB chemical substance or PCB mixture (by pounds and/or volume) to be manufactured or used during requested exemption period and the manner of release of PCB's into the environment associated with such manufacture or use.

(6) The basis for the petitioner's contention that under section 6(e)(3)(B)(i) of TSCA "an unreasonable risk of injury to health or environment would not result" from the granting of his petition for exemption.

(7) The basis for the petitioner's contention that he meets the criterion of section 6(e)(3)(B)(ii) of TSCA concerning substitutes for PCB's.

(8) Quantification of the reasonably ascertainable economic consequences of denial of the petition for exemption from the 1979 manufacturing ban and an explanation of the manner of computation.
