
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 750 - PROCEDURES FOR RULEMAKING UNDER SECTION 6 OF THE TOXIC SUBSTANCES CONTROL ACT
##### Subpart B - Interim Procedural Rules for Manufacturing Exemptions
###### ยง 750.14 Confidentiality.

The Agency encourages the submission of nonconfidential information by petitioners and commenters. The Agency does not wish to have unnecessary restrictions on access to the rulemaking record. However, if a petitioner or commenter believes that he can only state his position through the use of information claimed to be confidential, he may submit it. Such information must be separately submitted for the rulemaking record and marked "confidential" by the submitter. For the information claimed to be confidential, the Agency will list only the date and the name and address of the petitioner or commenter in the public file, noting that the petitioner or commenter has requested confidential treatment. The information claimed to be confidential will be placed in a confidential file. A petitioner must also file a nonconfidential petition with a nonconfidential summary of the confidential information to be placed in the public file. Similarly, a commenter must supply a nonconfidential summary of the information claimed to be confidential to be placed in the public file. Any information not marked as confidential will be placed in the public file. Information marked confidential will be treated in accordance with the procedures in part 2, subpart B of this title.
