
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 750 - PROCEDURES FOR RULEMAKING UNDER SECTION 6 OF THE TOXIC SUBSTANCES CONTROL ACT
##### Subpart C - Interim Procedural Rules for Processing and Distribution in Commerce Exemptions
###### ยง 750.31 Filing of petitions for exemption.
####### Renewal requests.

(e)(1) Any petitioner who has been granted an exemption under 40 CFR 761.80, except paragraph (g) of 40 CFR 761.80, on or after May 25, 1994, and who seeks to renew that exemption without changing its terms, must submit a letter by certified mail to EPA requesting that the exemption be granted for the following year.

(i) This letter must contain a certification by the petitioner that the type of activities, the procedures for handling the PCBs, the amount of PCBs handled, and any other aspect of the exemption have not changed from the original exemption petition request.

(ii) This letter must be received by EPA at least 6 months prior to the expiration of the existing exemption.

(iii) If a petitioner fails to make a submission or the submission is not timely under this section, the exemption will expire 1 year from the effective date of granting that exemption.

(iv) EPA will address a timely submission of a renewal request by rulemaking and either grant or deny the request.

(2) Any petitioner who has been granted an exemption on or after May 25, 1994, and who seeks to increase the amount of PCBs handled or to change the type of activities, the procedures for handling the PCBs, and any other aspect of their existing exemption must submit a new exemption petition to EPA. The existing exemption activity may continue until the new submission is addressed by rulemaking, provided the activity conforms to the terms of the current exemption approved by EPA, and the petitioner complies with the conditions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(3) Any petitioner who has been granted a TSCA section 6(e)(3)(B) exemption in a rule prior to May 25, 1994, and who seeks to increase the amount of PCBs handled or to change the type of activities, the procedures for handling the PCBs, and any other aspect of their existing exemption must submit a new exemption petition to EPA. The existing exemption activity may continue until the new submission is addressed by rulemaking, provided the activity conforms to the terms of the original exemption approved by EPA.
