
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 750 - PROCEDURES FOR RULEMAKING UNDER SECTION 6 OF THE TOXIC SUBSTANCES CONTROL ACT
##### Subpart C - Interim Procedural Rules for Processing and Distribution in Commerce Exemptions
###### ยง 750.31 Filing of petitions for exemption.
####### Content of petition.

(c)Each petition must contain the following:

(1) Name, address and telephone number of petitioner. See also paragraphs (a) (1) through (9) of this section for additional identification requirements applicable to certain consolidated petitions.

(2) Description of PCB processing or distribution in commerce exemption requested, including a description of the chemical substances, mixtures or items to be processed or distributed in commerce and, if processing is involved, the nature of the processing.

(3) For processing petitions, location(s) of sites requiring exemption.

(4) Length of time requested for exemption (maximum length of exemption is one year).

(5) Estimated amount of PCBs (by pound and/or volume) to be processed, distributed in commerce, or used during requested exemption period and the manner of release of PCBs into the environment associated with such processing, distribution in commerce, or use. Where the PCB concentration is less than 500 ppm, both the total liquid volume and the total PCB volume must be provided.

(6) The basis for the petitioner's contention that under section 6(e)(3)(B)(i) of TSCA "an unreasonable risk of injury to health or environment would not result" from the granting of the petition for exemption.

(7) The basis for the petitioner's contention that under section 6(e)(3)(B)(ii) "good faith efforts have been made to develop a chemical substance which does not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment and which may be substituted for" the PCB.

(8) Quantification of the reasonably ascertainable economic consequences of denying the petition for exemption and an explanation of the manner of computation.

(9) In addition to the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(8) of this section, certain petitions must contain additional information as follows:

(i) Persons who process or distribute in commerce dielectric fluids containing 50 ppm or greater PCB for use in PCB Transformers, railroad transformers, or PCB electromagnets must also state the expected number of PCB Transformers, railroad transformers, or PCB electromagnets to be serviced under the exemption. In addition, a person must identify all the facilities which he owns or operates where he services PCB transformers, railroad transformers, or PCB electromagnets.

(ii) Persons filing petitions under paragraph (a)(1) of this section (Processing and Distribution in Commerce of PCB-Contaminated Transformer Dielectric Fluid) must also provide the expected number of PCB-Contaminated Transformers to be serviced under the requested exemption and the expected method of disposal of waste dielectric fluid. In addition, a person must identify all the facilities which he owns or operates where he services PCB-Contaminated Transformers. This information, as well as the information required by paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(3), and (c)(5) of this section, must be provided for each person represented by the petition. All other information may be provided on a group basis.

(iii) Persons filing petitions under paragraphs (a)(2) (Contaminated Substances and Mixtures-Processing) and (a)(3) (Contaminated Substances and Mixtures-Distribution in Commerce) must also provide a justification for the class grouping selected and a description of the uses and the human and environmental exposure associated with each use of the PCB-contaminated chemical substance or mixture for which an exemption is sought. Information may be provided on a group basis, except that the information required by paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(3) and (c)(5) of this section, must be provided for each person represented by a petition under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(iv) Persons filing petitions under paragraph (a)(4) of this section (PCB Capacitor Distribution for Purposes of Repair) must also provide an estimate of the expected total number of PCB Capacitors to be distributed in commerce under the requested exemption. All information may be provided on a group basis.

(v) Persons filing petitions under paragraphs (a) (7) and (8) of this section (Processing of PCB Articles into PCB Equipment and Processing of PCB Equipment into Other PCB Equipment) must provide a description of each type of PCB Equipment (including the amount of PCBs by poundage and/or volume in the PCB Equipment) to be processed and/or distributed in commerce under the exemption, the number of each type of equipment expected to be processed and/or distributed in commerce, and the approximate number of distributors or further processors covered by the petition. All information may be provided on a group basis. However, in the case of a petition under paragraph (a)(7) of this section, the processor of PCB Articles into PCB Equipment must be identified in the petition. In the case of a petition under paragraph (a)(8) of this section, the processor of PCB Equipment who files the petition must be identified.

(vi) Persons filing petitions under paragraph (a)(9) of this section (Distribution of PCB Equipment) must provide a description of each type of PCB Equipment (including the amount of PCBs by poundage and/or volume in the PCB Equipment) to be distributed in commerce under the exemption, the number of each type of equipment to be distributed in commerce, and the approximate number of distributors covered by the petition. All information may be provided on a group basis.

(vii) Persons filing petitions under paragraphs (a) (5) and (6) of this section must provide the information required by paragraphs (c) (1) through (8) of this section for each petitioner named in the petition.

(d) EPA reserves the right to request further information as to each petition where necessary to determine whether the petition meets the statutory tests of section 6(e)(3)(B) of TSCA prior to or after publication of the notice of proposed rulemaking required by ยง 750.33 of these rules.
