
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 750 - PROCEDURES FOR RULEMAKING UNDER SECTION 6 OF THE TOXIC SUBSTANCES CONTROL ACT
##### Subpart C - Interim Procedural Rules for Processing and Distribution in Commerce Exemptions
###### ยง 750.34 Confidentiality.

EPA encourages the submission of non-confidential information by petitioners and commentors. EPA does not wish to have unnecessary restrictions on access to the rulemaking record. However, if a petitioner or commentor believes that he can only state his position through the use of information claimed to be confidential, he may submit it. Such information must be separately submitted for the rulemaking record and marked "confidential" by the submitter. For the information claimed to be confidential, EPA will list only the date and the name and address of the petitioner or commentor in the public file, noting that the petitioner or commentor has requested confidential treatment. The information claimed to be confidential will be placed in a confidential file. A petitioner must also file a non-confidential petition with a non-confidential summary of the confidential information to be placed in the public file. Similarly, a commentor must supply a non-confidential summary of the information claimed to be confidential to be placed in the public file. Any information not marked as confidential will be placed in the public file. Information marked confidential will be treated in accordance with the procedures in part 2, subpart B of this title.
