
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 751 - REGULATION OF CERTAIN CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES AND MIXTURES UNDER SECTION 6 OF THE TOXIC SUBSTANCES CONTROL ACT
##### Subpart E - Persistent, Bioaccumulative, and Toxic Chemicals
###### ยง 751.405 DecaBDE.
####### Phase-in of Prohibitions for Specific Uses of decaBDE and decaBDE-containing Products or Articles.

(2)(i) After July 6, 2022, all persons are prohibited from all manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce decaBDE for use in curtains in the hospitality industry, and the curtains to which decaBDE has been added.

(ii) After January 6, 2023, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distribution in commerce of decaBDE for use in wire and cable insulation in nuclear power generation facilities, and decaBDE-containing wire and cable insulation.

(iii) After January 8, 2024, all persons are prohibited from all manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of decaBDE for use in parts installed in and distributed as part of new aerospace vehicles, and the parts to which decaBDE has been added for such vehicles. After the end of the aerospace vehicles service lives, all persons are prohibited from all importing, processing, and distribution in commerce of aerospace vehicles manufactured before January 8, 2024 that contain decaBDE in any part. After the end of the aerospace vehicles service lives, all persons are prohibited from all manufacture, processing and distribution in commerce of decaBDE for use in replacement parts for aerospace vehicles, and the replacement parts to which decaBDE has been added for such vehicles.

(iv) After the end of the vehicles service lives or 2036, whichever is earlier, all persons are prohibited from all manufacture, processing and distribution in commerce of decaBDE for use in replacement parts for motor vehicles, and the replacement parts to which decaBDE has been added for such vehicles.

(v) After the end of the pallets' service life, all persons are prohibited from all distribution in commerce of plastic shipping pallets that contain decaBDE and were manufactured prior March 8, 2021.
