
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 761.3 Definitions.
####### Commercial storer of PCB waste

means the owner or operator of each facility that is subject to the PCB storage unit standards of ยง 761.65(b)(1) or (c)(7) or meets the alternate storage criteria of ยง 761.65(b)(2), and who engages in storage activities involving either PCB waste generated by others or that was removed while servicing the equipment owned by others and brokered for disposal. The receipt of a fee or any other form of compensation for storage services is not necessary to qualify as a commercial storer of PCB waste. A generator who only stores its own waste is subject to the storage requirements of ยง 761.65, but is not required to obtain approval as a commercial storer. If a facility's storage of PCB waste generated by others at no time exceeds a total of 500 gallons of liquid and/or non-liquid material containing PCBs at regulated levels, the owner or operator is a commercial storer but is not required to seek EPA approval as a commercial storer of PCB waste. Storage of one company's PCB waste by a related company is not considered commercial storage. A "related company" includes, but is not limited to: a parent company and its subsidiaries; sibling companies owned by the same parent company; companies owned by a common holding company; members of electric cooperatives; entities within the same Executive agency as defined at 5 U.S.C. 105; and a company having a joint ownership interest in a facility from which PCB waste is generated (such as a jointly owned electric power generating station) where the PCB waste is stored by one of the co-owners of the facility. A "related company" does not include another voluntary member of the same trade association. Change in ownership or title of a generator's facility, where the generator is storing PCB waste, does not make the new owner of the facility a commercial storer of PCB waste.
