
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 761.3 Definitions.
####### Recycled PCBs

means those PCBs which appear in the processing of paper products or asphalt roofing materials from PCB-contaminated raw materials. Processes which recycle PCBs must meet the following requirements:

(1) There are no detectable concentrations of PCBs in asphalt roofing material products leaving the processing site.

(2) The concentration of PCBs in paper products leaving any manufacturing site processing paper products, or in paper products imported into the United States, must have an annual average of less than 25 ppm with a 50 ppm maximum.

(3) The release of PCBs at the point at which emissions are vented to ambient air must be less than 10 ppm.

(4) The amount of Aroclor PCBs added to water discharged from an asphalt roofing processing site must at all times be less than 3 micrograms per liter (µg/L) for total Aroclors (roughly 3 parts per billion (3 ppb)). Water discharges from the processing of paper products must at all times be less than 3 micrograms per liter (µg/L) for total Aroclors (roughly 3 ppb), or comply with the equivalent mass-based limitation.

(5) Disposal of any other process wastes at concentrations of 50 ppm or greater must be in accordance with subpart D of this part.
