
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use of PCBs and PCB Items
###### ยง 761.30 Authorizations.
####### Use conditions.

(1)(i) As of October 1, 1985, the use and storage for reuse of PCB Transformers that pose an exposure risk to food or feed is prohibited.

(ii) As of October 1, 1990, the use of network PCB Transformers with higher secondary voltages (secondary voltages equal to or greater than 480 volts, including 480/277 volt systems) in or near commercial buildings is prohibited. Network PCB Transformers with higher secondary voltages which are removed from service in accordance with this requirement must either be reclassified to PCB Contaminated or non PCB status, placed into storage for disposal, or disposed.

(iii) Except as otherwise provided, as of October 1, 1985, the installation of PCB Transformers, which have been placed into storage for reuse or which have been removed from another location, in or near commercial buildings is prohibited.

(A) Retrofilled mineral oil PCB Transformers may be installed for reclassification purposes indefinitely after October 1, 1990.

(B) Once a retrofilled transformer has been installed for reclassification purposes, it must be tested 3 months after installation to ascertain the concentration of PCBs. If the PCB concentration is below 50 ppm, the transformer can be reclassified as a non-PCB Transformer. If the PCB concentration is between 50 and 500 ppm, the transformer can be reclassified as a PCB-Contaminated transformer. If the PCB concentration remains at 500 ppm or greater, the entire process must either be repeated until the transformer has been reclassified to a non-PCB or PCB-Contaminated transformer in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section or the transformer must be removed from service.

(iv) As of October 1, 1990, all higher secondary voltage radial PCB Transformers, in use in or near commercial buildings, and lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformers not located in sidewalk vaults in or near commercial buildings (network transformers with secondary voltages below 480 volts) that have not been removed from service as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(B) of this section, must be equipped with electrical protection to avoid transformer ruptures caused by high current faults. As of February 25, 1991, all lower secondary voltage radial PCB Transformers, in use in or near commercial buildings, must be equipped with electrical protection to avoid transformer ruptures caused by high current faults.

(A) Current-limiting fuses or other equivalent technology must be used to detect sustained high current faults and provide for the complete deenergization of the transformer (within several hundredths of a second in the case of higher secondary voltage radial PCB Transformers and within tenths of a second in the case of lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformers), before transformer rupture occurs. Lower secondary voltage radial PCB Transformers must be equipped with electrical protection as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(E) of this section. The installation, setting, and maintenance of current-limiting fuses or other equivalent technology to avoid PCB Transformer ruptures from sustained high current faults must be completed in accordance with good engineering practices.

(B) All lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformers not located in sidewalk vaults (network transformers with secondary voltages below 480 volts), in use in or near commercial buildings, which have not been protected as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(A) of this section by October 1, 1990, must be removed from service by October 1, 1993.

(C) As of October 1, 1990, owners of lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformers, in use in or near commercial buildings which have not been protected as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(A) of this section and which are not located in sidewalk vaults, must register in writing those transformers with the EPA Regional Administrator in the appropriate region. The information required to be provided in writing to the Regional Administrator includes:
