
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use of PCBs and PCB Items
###### ยง 761.20 Prohibitions and exceptions.
####### Restrictions on marketing.

(1)Used oil containing any quantifiable level of PCBs (2 ppm) may be marketed only to:

(i) Qualified incinerators as defined in 40 CFR 761.3.

(ii) Marketers who market off-specification used oil for energy recovery only to other marketers who have notified EPA of their used oil management activities, and who have an EPA identification number where an identification number is required by 40 CFR 279.73. This would include persons who market off-specification used oil who are subject to the requirements at 40 CFR part 279 and the notification requirements of 40 CFR 279.73.

(iii) Burners identified in 40 CFR 279.61(a)(1) and (2). Only burners in the automotive industry may burn used oil generated from automotive sources in used oil-fired space heaters provided the provisions of 40 CFR 279.23 are met. The Regional Administrator may grant a variance for a boiler that does not meet the 40 CFR 279.61(a)(1) and (2) criteria after considering the criteria listed in 40 CFR 260.32 (a) through (f). The applicant must address the relevant criteria contained in 40 CFR 260.32 (a) through (f) in an application to the Regional Administrator.
