
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use of PCBs and PCB Items
###### ยง 761.30 Authorizations.
####### 6

() Signature of the owner, operator, or other authorized representative certifying the accuracy of the information submitted.

(C) A transformer owner must retain a record of each PCB Transformer's registration (e.g., a copy of the registration and the return receipt signed by EPA) with the inspection and maintenance records required for each PCB Transformer under paragraph (a)(1)(xii)(I) of this section.

(D) A transformer owner must comply with all requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(vi)(A) of this section to continue the PCB-Transformer's authorization for use, or storage for reuse, pursuant to this section and TSCA section 6(e)(2)(B).

(vii) As of December 1, 1985, PCB Transformers in use in or near commercial buildings must be registered with building owners. For PCB Transformers located in commercial buildings, PCB Transformer owners must register the transformers with the building owner of record. For PCB Transformers located near commercial buildings, PCB Transformer owners must register the transformers with all owners of buildings located within 30 meters of the PCB Transformer(s). Information required to be provided to building owners by PCB Transformer owners includes but is not limited to:

(A) The specific location of the PCB Transformer(s).

(B) The principal constituent of the dielectric fluid in the transformer(s) (e.g., PCBs, mineral oil, or silicone oil).

(C) The type of transformer installation (e.g., 208/120 volt network, 208/120 volt radial, 208 volt radial, 480 volt network, 480/277 volt network, 480 volt radial, 480/277 volt radial).

(viii) As of December 1, 1985, combustible materials, including, but not limited to paints, solvents, plastics, paper, and sawn wood must not be stored within a PCB Transformer enclosure (i.e., in a transformer vault or in a partitioned area housing a transformer); within 5 meters of a transformer enclosure, or, if unenclosed (unpartitioned), within 5 meters of a PCB Transformer.

(ix) A visual inspection of each PCB Transformer (as defined in the definition of "PCB Transformer" under ยง 761.3) in use or stored for reuse shall be performed at least once every 3 months. These inspections may take place any time during the 3-month periods: January-March, April-June, July-September, and October-December as long as there is a minimum of 30 days between inspections. The visual inspection must include investigation for any leak of dielectric fluid on or around the transformer. The extent of the visual inspections will depend on the physical constraints of each transformer installation and should not require an electrical shutdown of the transformer being inspected.

(x) If a PCB Transformer is found to have a leak which results in any quantity of PCBs running off or about to run off the external surface of the transformer, then the transformer must be repaired or replaced to eliminate the source of the leak. In all cases any leaking material must be cleaned up and properly disposed of according to disposal requirements of subpart D of this part. Cleanup of the released PCBs must be initiated as soon as possible, but in no case later than 48 hours of its discovery. Until appropriate action is completed, any active leak of PCBs must be contained to prevent exposure of humans or the environment and inspected daily to verify containment of the leak. Trenches, dikes, buckets, and pans are examples of proper containment measures.

(xi) If a PCB Transformer is involved in a fire-related incident, the owner of the transformer must immediately report the incident to the National Response Center (toll-free 1-800-424-8802; in Washington, DC 202-426-2675). A fire-related incident is defined as any incident involving a PCB Transformer which involves the generation of sufficient heat and/or pressure (by any source) to result in the violent or non-violent rupture of a PCB Transformer and the release of PCBs. Information must be provided regarding the type of PCB Transformer installation involved in the fire-related incident (e.g., high or low secondary voltage network transformer, high or low secondary voltage simple radial system, expanded radial system, primary selective system, primary loop system, or secondary selective system or other systems) and the readily ascertainable cause of the fire-related incident (e.g., high current fault in the primary or secondary or low current fault in secondary). The owner of the PCB Transformer must also take measures as soon as practically and safely possible to contain and control any potential releases of PCBs and incomplete combustion products into water. These measures include, but are not limited to:

(A) The blocking of all floor drains in the vicinity of the transformer.

(B) The containment of water runoff.

(C) The control and treatment (prior to release) of any water used in subsequent cleanup operations.

(xii) Records of inspection and maintenance history shall be maintained at least 3 years after disposing of the transformer and shall be made available for inspection, upon request by EPA. Such records shall contain the following information for each PCB Transformer:

(A) Its location.

(B) The date of each visual inspection and the date that leak was discovered, if different from the inspection date.

(C) The person performing the inspection.

(D) The location of any leak(s).

(E) An estimate of the amount of dielectric fluid released from any leak.

(F) The date of any cleanup, containment, repair, or replacement.

(G) A description of any cleanup, containment, or repair performed.

(H) The results of any containment and daily inspection required for uncorrected active leaks.

(I) Record of the registration of PCB Transformer(s).

(J) Records of transfer of ownership in compliance with ยง 761.180(a)(2)(ix).

(xiii) A reduced visual inspection frequency of at least once every 12 months applies to PCB Transformers that utilize either of the following risk reduction measures. These inspections may take place any time during the calendar year as long as there is a minimum of 180 days between inspections.

(A) A PCB Transformer which has impervious, undrained, secondary containment capacity of at least 100 percent of the total dielectric fluid volume of all transformers so contained or

(B) A PCB Transformer which has been tested and found to contain less than 60,000 ppm PCBs (after 3 months of in service use if the transformer has been serviced for purposes of reducing the PCB concentration).

(xiv) An increased visual inspection frequency of at least once every week applies to any PCB Transformer in use or stored for reuse which poses an exposure risk to food or feed. The user of a PCB Transformer posing an exposure risk to food is responsible for the inspection, recordkeeping, and maintenance requirements under this section until the user notifies the owner that the transformer may pose an exposure risk to food or feed. Following such notification, it is the owner's ultimate responsibility to determine whether the PCB Transformer poses an exposure risk to food or feed.

(xv) In the event a mineral oil transformer, assumed to contain less than 500 ppm of PCBs as provided in ยง 761.2, is tested and found to be contaminated at 500 ppm or greater PCBs, it will be subject to all the requirements of this part 761. In addition, efforts must be initiated immediately to bring the transformer into compliance in accordance with the following schedule:

(A) Report fire-related incidents, effective immediately after discovery.

(B) Mark the PCB transformer within 7 days after discovery.

(C) Mark the vault door, machinery room door, fence, hallway or other means of access to the PCB Transformer within 7 days after discovery.

(D) Register the PCB Transformer in writing with the building owner within 30 days of discovery.

(E) Install electrical protective equipment on a radial PCB Transformer and a non-sidewalk vault, lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformer in or near a commercial building within 18 months of discovery or by October 1, 1990, whichever is later.

(F) Remove a non-sidewalk vault, lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformer in or near a commercial building, if electrical protective equipment is not installed, within 18 months of discovery or by October 1, 1993, whichever is later.

(G) Remove a lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformer located in a sidewalk vault in or near a commercial building, within 18 months of discovery or by October 1, 1993, whichever is later.

(H) Retrofill and reclassify a radial PCB Transformer or a lower or higher secondary voltage network PCB Transformer, located in other than a sidewalk vault in or near a commercial building, within 18 months or by October 1, 1990, whichever is later. This is an option in lieu of installing electrical protective equipment on a radial or lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformer located in other than a sidewalk vault or of removing a higher secondary voltage network PCB Transformer or a lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformer, located in a sidewalk vault, from service.

(I) Retrofill and reclassify a lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformer, located in a sidewalk vault, in or near a commercial building within 18 months or by October 1, 1993, whichever is later. This is an option in lieu of installing electrical protective equipment or removing the transformer from service.

(J) Retrofill and reclassify a higher secondary voltage network PCB Transformer, located in a sidewalk vault, in or near a commercial building within 18 months or by October 1, 1990, whichever is later. This is an option in lieu of other requirements.
