
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use of PCBs and PCB Items
###### ยง 761.30 Authorizations.
####### 3

() The identification number(s) of the PCB Transformer(s).

(D) As of October 1, 1993, all lower secondary voltage network PCB Transformers located in sidewalk vaults (network transformers with secondary voltages below 480 volts) in use near commercial buildings must be removed from service.

(E) As of February 25, 1991, all lower secondary voltage radial PCB Transformers must be equipped with electrical protection, such as current-limiting fuses or other equivalent technology, to detect sustained high current faults and provide for the complete deenergization of the transformer or complete deenergization of the faulted phase of the transformer within several hundredths of a second. The installation, setting, and maintenance of current-limiting fuses or other equivalent technology to avoid PCB Transformer ruptures from sustained high current faults must be completed in accordance with good engineering practices.

(v) As of October 1, 1990, all radial PCB Transformers with higher secondary voltages (480 volts and above, including 480/277 volt systems) in use in or near commercial buildings must, in addition to the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(A) of this section, be equipped with protection to avoid transformer ruptures caused by sustained low current faults.

(A) Pressure and temperature sensors (or other equivalent technology which has been demonstrated to be effective in early detection of sustained low current faults) must be used in these transformers to detect sustained low current faults.

(B) Disconnect equipment must be provided to insure complete deenergization of the transformer in the event of a sensed abnormal condition (e.g., an overpressure or overtemperature condition in the transformer), caused by a sustained low current fault. The disconnect equipment must be configured to operate automatically within 30 seconds to 1 minute of the receipt of a signal indicating an abnormal condition from a sustained low current fault, or can be configured to allow for manual deenergization from a manned on-site control center upon the receipt of an audio or visual signal indicating an abnormal condition caused by a sustained low current fault. Manual deenergization from a manned on-site control center must occur within 1 minute of the receipt of the audio or visual signal indicating an abnormal condition caused by a sustained low current fault. If automatic operation is selected and a circuit breaker is utilized for disconnection, it must also have the capability to be manually opened if necessary.

(C) The enhanced electrical protective system required for the detection of sustained low current faults and the complete and rapid deenergization of transformers must be properly installed, maintained, and set sensitive enough (in accordance with good engineering practices) to detect sustained low current faults and allow for rapid and total deenergization prior to PCB Transformer rupture (either violent or non violent rupture) and release of PCBs.

(vi)(A) No later than December 28, 1998 all owners of PCB Transformers, including those in storage for reuse, must register their transformers with the Environmental Protection Agency, National Program Chemicals Division, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (7404), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460. This registration requirement is subject to the limitations in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
