
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use of PCBs and PCB Items
###### § 761.30 Authorizations.
####### Use conditions.

(1)(i) After October 1, 1985, the use and storage for reuse of any electromagnet which poses an exposure risk to food or feed is prohibited if the electromagnet contains greater than 500 ppm PCBs.

(ii) Use and storage for reuse of voltage regulators which contain 1.36 kilograms (3 lbs) or more of dielectric fluid with a PCB concentration of ≥500 ppm are subject to the following provisions:

(A) The owner of the voltage regulator must mark its location in accordance with § 761.40.

(B) If a voltage regulator is involved in a fire-related incident, the owner must immediately report the incident to the National Response Center (Toll-free: 1-800-424-8802; in Washington, DC: 202-426-2675). A fire-related incident is defined as any incident that involves the generation of sufficient heat and/or pressure, by any source, to result in the violent or non-violent rupture of the voltage regulator and the release of PCBs.

(C) The owner of the voltage regulator must inspect it in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(ix), (a)(1)(xiii), and (a)(1)(xiv) of this section that apply to PCB Transformers.

(D) The owner of the voltage regulator must comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements at § 761.180.

(iii) The owner of a voltage regulator that assumes it contains <500 ppm PCBs as provided in § 761.2, and discovers by testing that it is contaminated at ≥500 ppm PCBs, must comply with paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section 7 days after the discovery, and paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(B), (h)(1)(ii)(C), and (h)(1)(ii)(D) of this section immediately upon discovery.
