
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use of PCBs and PCB Items
###### § 761.30 Authorizations.
####### 1,2,3,4

(E) The owner or operator of a natural gas pipeline system may use historical data to fulfill the requirements of paragraphs (i)(1)(iii)(A)(), (i)(1)(iii)(A)() and (i)(1)(iii)(A)() of this section. They may use documented historical actions taken to reduce PCB concentrations in known sources; decontaminate components or segments of natural gas pipeline systems; or otherwise to reduce PCB levels to fulfill the requirements of paragraph (i)(1)(iii)(A)() of this section.

(2) Any person may reuse PCB-Contaminated natural gas pipe and appurtenances in a natural gas pipeline system, provided all free-flowing liquids have been removed.

(3) Any person may use PCB-Contaminated natural gas pipe, drained of all free-flowing liquids, in the transport of liquids (e.g., bulk hydrocarbons, chemicals, petroleum products, or coal slurry), as casing to provide secondary containment or protection (e.g., protection for electrical cable), as industrial structural material (e.g., fence posts, sign posts, or bridge supports), as temporary flume at construction sites, as equipment skids, as culverts under transportation systems in intermittent flow situations, for sewage service with written consent of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW), for steam service, as irrigation systems (<20 inch diameter) of less than 200 miles in length, and in a totally enclosed compressed air system.

(4) Any person characterizing PCB contamination in natural gas pipe or natural gas pipeline systems must do so by analyzing organic liquids collected at existing condensate collection points in the pipe or pipeline system. The level of PCB contamination found at a collection point is assumed to extend to the next collection point downstream. Any person characterizing multi-phasic liquids must do so in accordance with § 761.1(b)(4); if no liquids are present, they must use standard wipe samples in accordance with subpart M of this part.

(5)(i) Any person disposing of liquids containing PCBs ≥50 ppm removed, spilled, or otherwise released from a natural gas pipeline system must do so in accordance with § 761.61(a)(5)(iv) based on the PCB concentration at the time of removal from the system. Any person disposing of materials contaminated by spills or other releases of PCBs ≥50 ppm from a natural gas pipeline systems, must do so in accordance with §§ 761.61 or 761.79, as applicable.

(ii) Any person who markets or burns for energy recovery liquids containing PCBs at concentrations <50 ppm PCBs at the time of removal from a natural gas pipeline system must do so in accordance with the provisions pertaining to used oil at § 761.20(e). No other use of liquid containing PCBs at concentrations above the quantifiable level/level of detection removed from a natural gas pipeline system is authorized.
