
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use of PCBs and PCB Items
###### § 761.30 Authorizations.
####### 3,2,3,4,6

(B) Owners or operators of natural gas pipeline systems which do not include potential sources of PCB contamination as described in paragraph (i)(1)(iii)(A)() of this section containing ≥50 ppm PCB are not subject to paragraphs (i)(1)(iii)(A)(), (i)(1)(iii)(A)(), (i)(1)(iii)(A)(), or (i)(1)(iii)(A)() of this section. Owners or operators of these systems, however, must comply with the other provisions of this section (e.g., sampling of any collected PCB liquids and recordkeeping).

(C) The owner or operator of a natural gas pipeline system must document in writing all data collected and actions taken, or not taken, pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (i)(1)(iii)(A) of this section. They must maintain the information for 3 years after the PCB concentration in the component or segment is reduced to <50 ppm, and make it available to EPA upon request.

(D) The Director, National Program Chemicals Division, after consulting with the appropriate EPA Region(s) may, based on a finding of no unreasonable risk, modify in writing the requirements of paragraph (i)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, including extending any compliance date, approving alternative formats for documentation, waiving one or more requirements for a segment or component, requiring sampling and analysis, and requiring implementation of engineering measures to reduce PCB concentrations. EPA will make such modifications based on the natural gas pipeline system size, configuration, and current operating conditions; nature, extent or source of contamination; proximity of contamination to end-users; or previous sampling, monitoring, remedial actions or documentation of activities taken regarding compliance with this authorization or other applicable Federal, State, or local laws and regulations. The Director, National Program Chemicals Division, may defer the authority described in this paragraph, upon request, to the appropriate EPA Region.
