
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use of PCBs and PCB Items
###### § 761.30 Authorizations.
####### Research and development.

(j)For purposes of this section, authorized research and development (R&D) activities include, but are not limited to: the chemical analysis of PCBs, including analyses to determine PCB concentration; determinations of the physical properties of PCBs; studies of environmental transport processes; studies of biochemical transport processes; studies of effects of PCBs on the environment; and studies of the health effects of PCBs, including direct toxicity and toxicity of metabolic products of PCBs. Authorized R&D activities do not include research, development, or analysis for the development of any PCB product. Any person conducting R&D activities under this section is also responsible for determining and complying with all other applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations. Although the use of PCBs and PCBs in analytical reference samples derived from waste material is authorized in conjunction with PCB-disposal related activities, R&D for PCB disposal (as defined under § 761.3) is addressed in § 761.60(j). PCBs and PCBs in analytical reference samples derived from waste materials are authorized for use, in a manner other than a totally enclosed manner, provided that:

(1) They obtain the PCBs and PCBs in analytical reference samples derived from waste materials from sources authorized under § 761.80 to manufacture, process, and distribute PCBs in commerce and the PCBs are packaged in compliance with the Hazardous Materials Regulations at 49 CFR parts 171 through 180.

(2) They store all PCB wastes resulting from R&D activities (e.g., spent laboratory samples, residuals, contaminated media such as clothing, etc.) in compliance with § 761.65(b) and dispose of all PCB wastes in compliance with § 761.64.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) No person may manufacture, process, or distribute in commerce PCBs for research and development unless they have been granted an exemption to do so under TSCA section 6(e)(3)(B).
