
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.50 Applicability.
####### General PCB disposal requirements.

(a)Any person storing or disposing of PCB waste must do so in accordance with subpart D of this part. The following prohibitions and conditions apply to all PCB waste storage and disposal:

(1) No person may open burn PCBs. Combustion of PCBs approved under § 761.60 (a) or (e), or otherwise allowed under part 761, is not open burning.

(2) No person may process liquid PCBs into non-liquid forms to circumvent the high temperature incineration requirements of § 761.60(a).

(3) No person may discharge water containing PCBs to a treatment works (as defined § 503.9(aa) of this chapter) or to navigable waters unless the PCB concentration is <3 µg/L (approximately 3 ppb), or unless the discharge is in accordance with a PCB discharge limit included in a permit issued under section 307(b) or 402 of the Clean Water Act.

(4) Spills and other uncontrolled discharges of PCBs at concentrations of ≥50 ppm constitute the disposal of PCBs.

(5) Any person land disposing of non-liquid PCBs may avoid otherwise-applicable sampling requirements by presuming that the PCBs disposed of are ≥500 ppm (or ≥100 µg/100 cmif no free-flowing liquids are present).

(6) Any person storing or disposing of PCBs is also responsible for determining and complying with all other applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations.
