
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturing, Processing, Distribution in Commerce, and Use of PCBs and PCB Items
###### § 761.30 Authorizations.
####### Use of PCBs in air compressor systems.

(s)(1) Any person may use PCBs in air compressor systems at concentrations <50 ppm.

(2) Any person may use PCBs in air compressor systems (or components thereof) at concentrations ≥50 ppm provided that:

(i) All free-flowing liquids containing PCBs ≥50 ppm are removed from the air compressor crankcase and the crankcase is refilled with non-PCB liquid.

(ii) Other air compressor system components contaminated with PCBs ≥50 ppm, are decontaminated in accordance with § 761.79 or disposed of in accordance with subpart D of this part.

(iii) Air compressor piping with a nominal inside diameter of <2 inches is decontaminated by continuous flushing for 4 hours, at no <300 gallons per hour (§ 761.79 contains solvent requirements).

(3) The requirements in paragraph (s)(2) of this section must be completed by August 30, 1999 or within 1 year of the date of discovery of PCBs at ≥50 ppm in the air compressor system, whichever is later. The EPA Regional Administrator for the EPA Region in which an air compressor system is located may, at his/her discretion and in writing, extend this timeframe.
