
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.50 Applicability.
####### PCB remediation waste.

(3)PCB remediation waste, including PCB sewage sludge, is regulated for cleanup and disposal in accordance with § 761.61.

(i) Any person responsible for PCB waste at as-found concentrations ≥50 ppm that was either placed in a land disposal facility, spilled, or otherwise released into the environment prior to April 18, 1978, regardless of the concentration of the spill or release; or placed in a land disposal facility, spilled, or otherwise released into the environment on or after April 18, 1978, but prior to July 2, 1979, where the concentration of the spill or release was ≥50 ppm but <500 ppm, must dispose of the waste as follows:

(A) Sites containing these wastes are presumed not to present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment from exposure to PCBs at the site. However, the EPA Regional Administrator may inform the owner or operator of the site that there is reason to believe that spills, leaks, or other uncontrolled releases or discharges, such as leaching, from the site constitute ongoing disposal that may present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment from exposure to PCBs at the site, and may require the owner or operator to generate data necessary to characterize the risk. If after reviewing any such data, the EPA Regional Administrator makes a finding, that an unreasonable risk exists, then he or she may direct the owner or operator of the site to dispose of the PCB remediation waste in accordance with § 761.61 such that an unreasonable risk of injury no longer exists.

(B) Unless directed by the EPA Regional Administrator to dispose of PCB waste in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section, any person responsible for PCB waste at as-found concentrations ≥50 ppm that was either placed in a land disposal facility, spilled, or otherwise released into the environment prior to April 18, 1978, regardless of the concentration of the spill or release; or placed in a land disposal facility, spilled, or otherwise released into the environment on or after April 18, 1978, but prior to July 2, 1979, where the concentration of the spill or release was ≥50 ppm but <500 ppm, who unilaterally decides to dispose of that waste (for example, to obtain insurance or to sell the property), is not required to clean up in accordance with § 761.61. Disposal of the PCB remediation waste must comply with § 761.61. However, cleanup of those wastes that is not in complete compliance with § 761.61 will not afford the responsible party with relief from the applicable PCB regulations for that waste.

(ii) Any person responsible for PCB waste at as-found concentrations ≥50 ppm that was either placed in a land disposal facility, spilled, or otherwise released into the environment on or after April 18, 1978, but prior to July 2, 1979, where the concentration of the spill or release was ≥500 ppm; or placed in a land disposal facility, spilled, or otherwise released into the environment on or after July 2, 1979, where the concentration of the spill or release was ≥50 ppm, must dispose of it in accordance with either of the following:

(A) In accordance with the PCB Spill Cleanup Policy (Policy) at subpart G of this part, for those PCB remediation wastes that meet the criteria of the Policy. Consult the Policy for a description of the spills it covers and its notification and timing requirements.

(B) In accordance with § 761.61. Complete compliance with § 761.61 does not create a presumption against enforcement action for penalties for any unauthorized PCB disposal.

(iii) The owner or operator of a site containing PCB remediation waste has the burden of proving the date that the waste was placed in a land disposal facility, spilled, or otherwise released into the environment, and the concentration of the original spill.
