
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.60 Disposal requirements.
####### PCB Capacitors.

(2)(i) The disposal of any capacitor shall comply with all requirements of this subpart unless it is known from label or nameplate information, manufacturer's literature (including documented communications with the manufacturer), or chemical analysis that the capacitor does not contain PCBs.

(ii) Any person may dispose of PCB Small Capacitors as municipal solid waste, unless that person is subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.

(iii) Any PCB Large High or Low Voltage Capacitor which contains 500 ppm or greater PCBs, owned by any person, shall be disposed of in accordance with either of the following:

(A) Disposal in an incinerator that complies with § 761.70; or

(B) Until March 1, 1981, disposal in a chemical waste landfill that complies with § 761.75.

(iv) Any person who manufactures or at any time manufactured PCB Capacitors or PCB Equipment, and acquired the PCB Capacitor in the course of such manufacturing, shall place the PCB Small Capacitors in a container meeting the DOT packaging requirements at 49 CFR parts 171 through 180 and dispose of them in accordance with either of the following:

(A) Disposal in an incinerator which complies with § 761.70; or

(B) Until March 1, 1981, disposal in a chemical waste landfill which complies with § 761.75.

(v) Notwithstanding the restrictions imposed by paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(B) or (b)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, PCB capacitors may be disposed of in PCB chemical waste landfills that comply with § 761.75 subsequent to March 1, 1981, if EPA publishes a notice in thedeclaring that those landfills are available for such disposal and explaining the reasons for the extension or reopening. An extension or reopening for disposal of PCB capacitors that is granted under this subsection shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Assistant Administrator may prescribe and shall be in effect for such period as the Assistant Administrator may prescribe. EPA may permit disposal of PCB capacitors in EPA-approved chemical waste landfills after March 1, 1981, if in its opinion,

(A) Adequate incineration capability for PCB capacitors is not available, or

(B) The incineration of PCB capacitors will significantly interfere with the incineration of liquid PCBs, or

(C) There is other good cause shown.

(vi) Any person disposing of large PCB capacitors or small PCB capacitors described in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section in a chemical waste landfill approved under § 761.75, shall first place them in a container meeting the DOT packaging requirements at 49 CFR parts 171 through 180. In all cases, the person must fill the interstitial space in the container with sufficient absorbent material (such as soil) to absorb any liquid PCBs remaining in the capacitors.
