
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.60 Disposal requirements.
####### PCB hydraulic machines.

(3)(i) Any person disposing of PCB hydraulic machines containing PCBs at concentrations of ≥50 ppm, such as die casting machines, shall do so by one of the following methods:

(A) In accordance with § 761.79.

(B) In a facility which is permitted, licensed, or registered by a State to manage municipal solid waste subject to part 258 of this chapter or non-municipal non-hazardous waste subject to §§ 257.5 through 257.30 of this chapter, as applicable (excluding thermal treatment units).

(C) In a scrap metal recovery oven or smelter operating in compliance with § 761.72.

(D) In a disposal facility approved under this part.

(ii) All free-flowing liquid must be removed from each machine and the liquid must be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. If the PCB liquid contains ≥1,000 ppm PCB, then the hydraulic machine must be decontaminated in accordance with § 761.79 or flushed prior to disposal with a solvent listed at paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section which contains <50 ppm PCB. The solvent must be disposed of in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section or § 761.79.
