
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.60 Disposal requirements.
####### Testing procedures.

(g)(1) Owners or users of mineral oil dielectric fluid electrical equipment may use the following procedures to determine the concentration of PCBs in the dielectric fluid:

(i) Dielectric fluid removed from mineral oil dielectric fluid electrical equipment may be collected in a common container, provided that no other chemical substances or mixtures are added to the container. This common container option does not permit dilution of the collected oil. Mineral oil that is assumed or known to contain at least 50 ppm PCBs must not be mixed with mineral oil that is known or assumed to contain less than 50 ppm PCBs to reduce the concentration of PCBs in the common container. If dielectric fluid from untested, oil-filled circuit breakers, reclosers, or cable is collected in a common container with dielectric fluid from other oil-filled electrical equipment, the entire contents of the container must be treated as PCBs at a concentration of at least 50 ppm, unless all of the fluid from the other oil-filled electrical equipment has been tested and shown to contain less than 50 ppm PCBs.

(ii) For purposes of complying with the marking and disposal requirements, representative samples may be taken from either the common containers or the individual electrical equipment to determine the PCB concentration, except that if any PCBs at a concentration of 500 ppm or greater have been added to the container or equipment then the total container contents must be considered as having a PCB concentration of 500 ppm or greater for purposes of complying with the disposal requirements of this subpart. For purposes of this subparagraph, representative samples of mineral oil dielectric fluid are either samples taken in accordance with ASTM D 923-86 or ASTM D 923-89 or samples taken from a container that has been thoroughly mixed in a manner such that any PCBs in the container are uniformly distributed throughout the liquid in the container.

(iii) Unless otherwise specified in this part, any person conducting the chemical analysis of PCBs shall do so using gas chromatography. Any gas chromatographic method that is appropriate for the material being analyzed may be used, including EPA Method 608, "Organochlorine Pesticides and PCBs" at 40 CFR part 136, Appendix A;" EPA Method 8082, "Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) by Capillary Column Gas Chromatography" of SW-846, "OSW Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste," which is available from NTIS; and ASTM Standard D-4059, "Standard Test Method for Analysis of Polychlorinated Biphenyls in Insulating Liquids by Gas Chromatography," which is available from ASTM.

(2) Owners or users of waste oil may use the following procedures to determine the PCB concentration of waste oil:

(i) Waste oil from more than one source may be collected in a common container, provided that no other chemical substances or mixtures, such as non-waste oils, are added to the container.
