
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.60 Disposal requirements.
####### PCB Containers.

(c)(1) Unless decontaminated in compliance with § 761.79 or as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a PCB container with PCB concentrations at 500 ppm or greater shall be disposed of:

(i) In an incinerator which complies with § 761.70, or

(ii) In a chemical waste landfill that complies with § 761.75; provided that if there are PCBs in a liquid state, the PCB Container shall first be drained and the PCB liquid disposed of in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Any PCB Container used to contain only PCBs at a concentration less than 500 ppm shall be disposed of as municipal solid wastes; provided that if the PCBs are in a liquid state, the PCB Container shall first be drained and the PCB liquid shall be disposed of in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) Prior to disposal, a PCB container with PCB concentrations at 50 ppm or greater shall be stored in a unit which complies with § 761.65.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) Any person who is required to incinerate any PCBs and PCB items under this subpart and who can demonstrate that an alternative method of destroying PCBs and PCB items exists and that this alternative method can achieve a level of performance equivalent to an incinerator approved under § 761.70 or a high efficiency boiler operating in compliance with § 761.71, must submit a written request to the Regional Administrator or the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, for a waiver from the incineration requirements of § 761.70 or § 761.71. Requests for approval of alternate methods that will be operated in more than one Region must be submitted to the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, except for research and development activities involving less than 500 pounds of PCB material (see paragraph (i)(2) of this section). Requests for approval of alternate methods that will be operated in only one Region must be submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator. The applicant must show that his or her method of destroying PCBs will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. On the basis of such information and any available information, EPA may, in its discretion, approve the use of the alternate method if it finds that the alternate disposal method provides PCB destruction equivalent to disposal in a § 761.60 incinerator or a § 761.61 high efficiency boiler and will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. Any approval must be stated in writing and may include such conditions and provisions as EPA deems appropriate. The person to whom such waiver is issued must comply with all limitations contained in such determination. No person may use the alternate method of destroying PCBs or PCB items prior to obtaining permission from the appropriate EPA official.

(f)(1) Each operator of a chemical waste landfill, incinerator, or alternative to incineration approved under paragraph (e) of this section shall give the following written notices to the state and local governments within whose jurisdiction the disposal facility is located:

(i) Notice at least thirty (30) days before a facility is first used for disposal of PCBs required by these regulations; and

(ii) At the request of any state or local government, annual notice of the quantities and general description of PCBs disposed of during the year. This annual notice shall be given no more than thirty (30) days after the end of the year covered.

(iii) The Regional Administrator may reduce the notice period required by paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section from thirty days to a period of no less than five days in order to expedite interim approval of the chemical waste landfill located in Sedgwick County, Kansas.

(2) [Reserved]
