
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.60 Disposal requirements.
####### Self-implementing requirements for research and development (R&D) for PCB disposal.

(j)(1) Any person may conduct R&D for PCB disposal without prior written approval from EPA if they meet the following conditions:

(i) File a notification and obtain an EPA identification number pursuant to subpart K of this part.

(ii) Notify in writing the EPA Regional Administrator, the State environmental protection agency, and local environmental protection agency, having jurisdiction where the R&D for PCB disposal activity will occur at least 30 days prior to the commencement of any R&D for PCB disposal activity conducted under this section. Each written notification shall include the EPA identification number of the site where the R&D for PCB disposal activities will be conducted, the quantity of PCBs to be treated, the type of R&D technology to be used, the general physical and chemical properties of material being treated, and an estimate of the duration of the PCB activity. The EPA Regional Administrator, the State environmental protection agency, and the local environmental protection agency may waive notification in writing prior to commencement of the research.

(iii) The amount of material containing PCBs treated annually by the facility during R&D for PCB disposal activities does not exceed 500 gallons or 70 cubic feet of liquid or non-liquid PCBs and does not exceed a maximum concentration of 10,000 ppm PCBs.

(iv) No more than 1 kilogram total of pure PCBs per year is disposed of in all R&D for PCB disposal activities at a facility.

(v) Each R&D for PCB disposal activity under this section lasts no more than 1 calendar year.

(vi) Store all PCB wastes (treated and untreated PCB materials, testing samples, spent laboratory samples, residuals, untreated samples, contaminated media or instrumentation, clothing, etc.) in compliance with § 761.65(b) and dispose of them according to the undiluted PCB concentration prior to treatment. However, PCB materials not treated in the R&D for PCB disposal activity may be returned either to the physical location where the samples were collected or a location where other regulated PCBs from the physical location where the samples were collected are being stored for disposal.

(vii) Use manifests pursuant to subpart K of this part for all R&D PCB wastes being transported from the R&D facility to an approved PCB storage or disposal facility. However, §§ 761.207 through 761.219 do not apply if the residuals or treated samples are returned either to the physical location where the samples were collected or a location where other regulated PCBs from the physical location where the samples were collected are being stored for disposal.

(viii) Package and ship all PCB wastes pursuant to DOT requirements under 49 CFR parts 171 through 180.

(ix) Comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 761.180.

(2) Do not exceed material limitations set out in paragraphs (j)(1) (iii) and (iv) of this section and the time limitation set out in paragraph (j)(1)(v) of this section without prior written approval from EPA. Requests for approval to exceed the material limitations for PCBs in R&D for PCB disposal activities as specified in this section must be submitted in writing to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the facility conducting R&D for PCB disposal activities is located. Each request shall specify the quantity or concentration requested or additional time needed for disposal and include a justification for each increase. For extensions to the duration of the R&D for PCB disposal activity, the request shall also include a report on the accomplishments and progress of the previously authorized R&D for PCB disposal activity for which the extension is sought. The EPA Regional Administrator may grant a waiver in writing for an increase in the volume of PCB material, the maximum concentration of PCBs, the total amount of pure PCBs, or the duration of the R&D activity. Approvals will state all requirements applicable to the R&D for PCB disposal activity.

(3) The EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which an R&D for PCB disposal activity is conducted may determine, at any time, that an R&D PCB disposal approval is required under paragraphs (e) and (i)(2) of this section or § 761.70(d) to ensure that any R&D for PCB disposal activity does not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.
