
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.61 PCB remediation waste.
####### Notification and certification.

(3)(i) At least 30 days prior to the date that the cleanup of a site begins, the person in charge of the cleanup or the owner of the property where the PCB remediation waste is located shall notify, in writing, the EPA Regional Administrator, the Director of the State or Tribal environmental protection agency, and the Director of the county or local environmental protection agency where the cleanup will be conducted. The notice shall include:

(A) The nature of the contamination, including kinds of materials contaminated.

(B) A summary of the procedures used to sample contaminated and adjacent areas and a table or cleanup site map showing PCB concentrations measured in all pre-cleanup characterization samples. The summary must include sample collection and analysis dates. The EPA Regional Administrator may require more detailed information including, but not limited to, additional characterization sampling or all sample identification numbers from all previous characterization activities at the cleanup site.

(C) The location and extent of the identified contaminated area, including topographic maps with sample collection sites cross referenced to the sample identification numbers in the data summary from paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B) of this section.

(D) A cleanup plan for the site, including schedule, disposal technology, and approach. This plan should contain options and contingencies to be used if unanticipated higher concentrations or wider distributions of PCB remediation waste are found or other obstacles force changes in the cleanup approach.

(E) A written certification, signed by the owner of the property where the cleanup site is located and the party conducting the cleanup, that all sampling plans, sample collection procedures, sample preparation procedures, extraction procedures, and instrumental/chemical analysis procedures used to assess or characterize the PCB contamination at the cleanup site, are on file at the location designated in the certificate, and are available for EPA inspection. Persons using alternate methods for chemical extraction and chemical analysis for site characterization must include in the certificate a statement that such a method will be used and that a comparison study which meets or exceeds the requirements of subpart Q of this part, and for which records are on file, has been completed prior to verification sampling.

(ii) Within 30 calendar days of receiving the notification, the EPA Regional Administrator will respond in writing approving of the self-implementing cleanup, disapproving of the self-implementing cleanup, or requiring additional information. If the EPA Regional Administrator does not respond within 30 calendar days of receiving the notice, the person submitting the notification may assume that it is complete and acceptable and proceed with the cleanup according to the information the person provided to the EPA Regional Administrator. Once cleanup is underway, the person conducting the cleanup must provide any proposed changes from the notification to the EPA Regional Administrator in writing no less than 14 calendar days prior to the proposed implementation of the change. The EPA Regional Administrator will determine in his or her discretion whether to accept the change, and will respond to the change notification verbally within 7 calendar days and in writing within 14 calendar days of receiving it. If the EPA Regional Administrator does not respond verbally within 7 calendar days and in writing within 14 calendar days of receiving the change notice, the person who submitted it may deem it complete and acceptable and proceed with the cleanup according to the information in the change notice provided to the EPA Regional Administrator.

(iii) Any person conducting a cleanup activity may obtain a waiver of the 30-day notification requirement, if they receive a separate waiver, in writing, from each of the agencies they are required to notify under this section. The person must retain the original written waiver as required in paragraph (a)(9) of this section.
