
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.61 PCB remediation waste.
####### Risk-based disposal approval.

(c)(1) Any person wishing to sample, cleanup, or dispose of PCB remediation waste in a manner other than prescribed in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, or store PCB remediation waste in a manner other than prescribed in ยง 761.65, must apply in writing to the Regional Administrator in the Region where the sampling, cleanup, disposal, or storage site is located, for sampling, cleanup, disposal, or storage occurring in a single EPA Region; or to the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, for sampling, cleanup, disposal, or storage occurring in more than one EPA Region. Each application must include information described in the notification required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section. EPA may request other information that it believes necessary to evaluate the application. No person may conduct cleanup activities under this paragraph prior to obtaining written approval by EPA.

(2) EPA will issue a written decision on each application for a risk-based method for PCB remediation wastes. EPA will approve such an application if it finds that the method will not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.
