
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.62 Disposal of PCB bulk product waste.
####### Risk-based disposal approval.

(c)(1) Any person wishing to sample or dispose of PCB bulk product waste in a manner other than prescribed in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, or store PCB bulk product waste in a manner other than prescribed in ยง 761.65, must apply in writing to the Regional Administrator in the Region where the sampling, disposal, or storage site is located, for sampling, disposal, or storage occurring in a single EPA Region; or to the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, for sampling, disposal, or storage occurring in more than one EPA Region. Each application must contain information indicating that, based on technical, environmental, or waste-specific characteristics or considerations, the proposed sampling, disposal, or storage methods or locations will not pose an unreasonable risk or injury to health or the environment. EPA may request other information that it believes necessary to evaluate the application. No person may conduct sampling, disposal, or storage activities under this paragraph prior to obtaining written approval by EPA.

(2) EPA will issue a written decision on each application for a risk-based sampling, disposal, or storage method for PCB bulk product wastes. EPA will approve such an application if it finds that the method will not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.
