
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.62 Disposal of PCB bulk product waste.
####### Disposal in solid waste landfills.

(b)(1) Any person may dispose of the following PCB bulk product waste in a facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a State as a municipal or non-municipal non-hazardous waste landfill:

(i) Plastics (such as plastic insulation from wire or cable; radio, television and computer casings; vehicle parts; or furniture laminates); preformed or molded rubber parts and components; applied dried paints, varnishes, waxes or other similar coatings or sealants; caulking; Galbestos; non-liquid building demolition debris; or non-liquid PCB bulk product waste from the shredding of automobiles or household appliances from which PCB small capacitors have been removed (shredder fluff).

(ii) Other PCB bulk product waste, sampled in accordance with the protocols set out in subpart R of this part, that leaches PCBs at <10 µg/L of water measured using a procedure used to simulate leachate generation.

(2) Any person may dispose of PCB bulk product waste other than those materials meeting the conditions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, (e.g., paper or felt gaskets contaminated by liquid PCBs in a facility that is permitted, licensed, or registered by a State to manage municipal solid waste subject to part 258 of this chapter or non-municipal non-hazardous waste subject to §§ 257.5 through 257.30 of this chapter, as applicable, if:

(i) The PCB bulk product waste is segregated from organic liquids disposed of in the landfill unit.

(ii) Leachate is collected from the landfill unit and monitored for PCBs.

(3) Any release of PCBs (including but not limited to leachate) from the landfill unit shall be cleaned up in accordance with § 761.61.

(4)(i) Any person disposing off-site of PCB bulk product waste regulated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section at a waste management facility not having a commercial PCB storage or disposal approval must provide written notice to the facility a minimum of 15 days in advance of the first shipment from the same disposal waste stream. The notice shall state that the PCB bulk product waste may include components containing PCBs at ≥50 ppm based on analysis of the waste in the shipment or application of a general knowledge of the waste stream (or similar material) which is known to contain PCBs at those levels, and that the PCB bulk product waste is known or presumed to leach <10 µg/L PCBs.

(ii) Any person disposing off-site of PCB bulk product waste regulated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section at a waste management facility not having a commercial PCB storage or disposal approval must provide written notice to the facility a minimum of 15 days in advance of the first shipment from the same disposal waste stream and with each shipment thereafter. The notice shall state that the PCB bulk product waste may include components containing PCBs at ≥50 ppm based on analysis of the waste in the shipment or application of a general knowledge of the waste stream (or similar material) which is known to contain PCBs at those levels, and that the PCB bulk product waste is known or presumed to leach ≥10 µg/L PCBs.

(5) Any person disposing of PCB bulk product waste must maintain a written record of all sampling and analysis of PCBs or notifications made under this paragraph for 3 years from the date of the waste's generation. The records must be made available to EPA upon request.

(6) Requirements in subparts C, J, and K of this part do not apply to waste disposed of under paragraph (b) of this section.
