
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.65 Storage for disposal.
####### One-year extension.

(2)Any person storing PCB waste that is subject to the 1-year time limit for storage and disposal in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may provide written notification to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the PCB waste is stored that their continuing attempts to dispose of or secure disposal for their waste within the 1-year time limit have been unsuccessful. Upon receipt of the notice by the EPA Regional Administrator, the time for disposal is automatically extended for 1 additional year (2 years total) if the following conditions are met:

(i) The notification is received by the EPA Regional Administrator at least 30 days before the initial 1-year time limit expires and the notice identifies the storer, the types, volumes, and locations of the waste and the reasons for failure to meet the initial 1-year time limit.

(ii) A written record documenting all continuing attempts to secure disposal is maintained until the waste is disposed of.

(iii) The written record required by paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section is available for inspection or submission if requested by EPA.

(iv) Continuing attempts to secure disposal were initiated within 270 days after the time the waste was first subject to the 1-year time limit requirement, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Failure to initiate and continue attempts to secure disposal throughout the total time the waste is in storage shall automatically disqualify the notifier from receiving an automatic extension under this section.
