
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.65 Storage for disposal.
####### Flammable and combustible liquids.,f

(i) The containers are designed, constructed, and operated in compliance with Occupational Safety and Health Standards, 29 CFR 1910.106,Before using these containers for storing PCBs, the design of the containers must be reviewed to determine the effect on the structural safety of the containers that will result from placing liquids with the specific gravity of PCBs into the containers (see 29 CFR 1910.106(b)(1)(i)()).

(ii) The owners or operators of any facility using containers described in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section, shall prepare and implement a Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan as described in part 112 of this title. In complying with 40 CFR part 112, the owner or operator shall read "oil(s)" as "PCB(s)" whenever it appears. The exemptions for storage capacity, 40 CFR 112.1(d)(2), and the amendment of SPCC plans by the Regional Administrator, 40 CFR 112.4, shall not apply unless some fraction of the liquids stored in the container are oils as defined by section 311 of the Clean Water Act.

(8) PCB Items shall be dated on the item when they are removed from service for disposal. The storage shall be managed so that the PCB Items can be located by this date. Storage containers provided in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, shall have a record that includes for each batch of PCBs the quantity of the batch and date the batch was added to the container. The record shall also include the date, quantity, and disposition of any batch of PCBs removed from the container.

(9) Bulk PCB remediation waste or PCB bulk product waste may be stored at the clean-up site or site of generation for 180 days subject to the following conditions:

(i) The waste is placed in a pile designed and operated to control dispersal of the waste by wind, where necessary, by means other than wetting.

(ii) The waste must not generate leachate through decomposition or other reactions.

(iii) The storage site must have:

(A) A liner that is designed, constructed, and installed to prevent any migration of wastes off or through the liner into the adjacent subsurface soil, ground water or surface water at any time during the active life (including the closure period) of the storage site. The liner may be constructed of materials that may allow waste to migrate into the liner. The liner must be:
