
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.65 Storage for disposal.
####### Approval of commercial storers of PCB waste.

(d)(1) All commercial storers of PCB waste shall have interim approval to operate commercial facilities for the storage of PCB waste until August 2, 1990. Commercial storers of PCB waste are prohibited from storing any PCB waste at their facilities after August 2, 1990 unless they have submitted by August 2, 1990 a complete application for a final storage approval under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The period of interim approval shall continue until EPA makes a final decision on the storage application at which time such interim approval shall terminate.

(2) The Regional Administrator for the region in which the storage facility is located (or the appropriate official at EPA Headquarters, if the commercial storage area is ancillary to a disposal facility for which an official at EPA Headquarters has approval authority)shall grant written, final approval to engage in the commercial storage of PCB waste upon a determination that the criteria in paragraph (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(vii) of this section have been met by the applicant:

(i) The applicant, its principals, and its key employees responsible for the establishment or operation of the commercial storage facility are qualified to engage in the business of commercial storage of PCB waste.

(ii) The facility possesses the capacity to handle the quantity of PCB waste which the owner or operator of the facility has estimated will be the maximum quantity of PCB waste that will be handled at any one time at the facility.

(iii) The owner or operator of the unit has certified compliance with the storage facility standards in paragraphs (b) and (c)(7) of this section.

(iv) The owner or operator has developed a written closure plan for the facility that is deemed acceptable by the Regional Administrator (or the appropriate official at EPA Headquarters, if the commercial storage area is ancillary to a disposal facility permitted by an official at EPA Headquarters) under the closure plan standards of paragraph (e) of this section.

(v) The owner or operator has included in the application for final approval a demonstration of financial responsibility for closure that meets the financial responsibility standards of paragraph (g) of this section.

(vi) The operation of the storage facility will not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.

(vii) The environmental compliance history of the applicant, its principals, and its key employees may be deemed to constitute a sufficient basis for denial of approval whenever in the judgment of the appropriate EPA official that history of environmental civil violations or criminal convictions evidences a pattern or practice of noncompliance that demonstrates the applicant's unwillingness or inability to achieve and maintain compliance with the regulations.

(3) Applicants for storage approvals shall submit a written application that includes any relevant information bearing upon the qualifications of the facility's principals and key employees to engage in the business of commercial storage of PCB wastes. This information shall include, but is not limited to:

(i) The identification of the owner and the operator of the facility, including all general partners of a partnership, any limited partner of a partnership, any stockholder of a corporation or any participant in any other type of business organization or entity who owns or controls, directly or indirectly, more than 5 percent of each partnership, corporation, or other business organization and all officials of the facility who have direct management responsibility for the facility.

(ii) The identification of the person responsible for the overall operations of the facility (i.e., a plant manager, superintendent, or a person of similar responsibility) and the supervisory employees who are or will be responsible for the operation of the facility.

(iii) Information concerning the technical qualifications and experience of the persons responsible for the overall operation of the facility and the employees responsible for handling PCB waste or other wastes.

(iv) Information concerning any past State or Federal environmental violations involving the same business or another business with which the principals or supervisory employees were affiliated directly that occurred within 5 years preceding the date of submission and which relate directly to violations that resulted in either a civil penalty (irrespective of whether the matter was disposed of by an adjudication or by a without prejudice settlement) or judgment of conviction whether entered after trial or a plea, either of guilt or nolo contendere or civil injunctive relief and involved storage, disposal, transport, or other waste handling activities.

(v) A list of all companies currently owned or operated in the past by the principals or key employees identified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (d)(3)(ii) of this section that are or were directly or indirectly involved with waste handling activities.

(vi) The owner's or operator's estimate of maximum PCB waste quantity to be handled at the facility.

(vii) A written statement certifying compliance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section and containing a certification as defined in ยง 761.3.

(viii) A written closure plan for the facility, as described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(ix) The current closure cost estimate for the facility, as described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(x) A demonstration of financial responsibility to close the facility, as described in paragraph (g) of this section.

(4) The written approval issued by EPA shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

(i) The determination that the applicant has satisfied the requirements set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and a brief statement setting forth the basis for the determination.

(ii) Incorporation of the closure plan submitted by the facility owner or operator and approved by EPA.

(iii) A condition imposing a maximum PCB storage capacity which the facility shall not exceed during its PCB waste storage operations. The maximum storage capacity imposed under this condition shall not be greater than the estimated maximum inventory of PCB waste included in the owner's or operator's application for final approval.

(iv) Such other conditions as deemed necessary by EPA to ensure that the operations of the PCB storage facility will not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.

(5) Storage areas at transfer facilities are exempt from the requirement to obtain approval as a commercial storer of PCB waste under this paragraph, unless the same PCB waste is stored at these facilities for a period of time greater than 10 consecutive days between destinations.

(6) Storage areas at RCRA-permitted facilities may be exempt from the separate TSCA storage approval requirements in this paragraph (d) upon a showing to the Regional Administrator's satisfaction that the facility's existing RCRA closure plan is substantially equivalent to this rule's closure plan standards, and that such facility's closure cost estimate and financial assurance demonstration account for maximum PCB waste inventories, and the requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(i) through (d)(3)(v) and (d)(3)(vii) of this section are met. A pay-in period of longer than 3 years after approval of the storage facility pursuant to this rule, will be acceptable to EPA if that pay-in period has already been established for a valid RCRA facility or previously approved TSCA facility.

(7) Storage areas ancillary to TSCA-approved disposal facilities may be exempt from a separate facility approval provided all of the following conditions are met:

(i) The current disposal approval contains an expiration date.

(ii) The current disposal approval's closure and financial responsibility conditions specifically extend to storage areas ancillary to disposal.

(iii) The current disposal approval's closure and financial responsibility conditions provide for annual adjustments for inflation, and for modification when changes in operation would affect closure costs.

(iv) The current disposal approval contains conditions on closure and financial responsibility that are at least as stringent as those in paragraphs (e) and (g) of this section. However, the provision for a 3-year closure trust pay-in period, as specified in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, would be waived in a case in which an approved TSCA facility or RCRA facility that covers PCB storage has a longer pay-in period for the trust.

(v) The current disposal approval satisfies the requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(i) through (d)(3)(v) of this section.

(8) The approval of any existing TSCA-approved disposal facility ancillary to a commercial storage facility that is deficient in any of the conditions of paragraph (d)(7)(i) through (d)(7)(v) of this section shall be called in by the Regional Administrator (or the appropriated official at EPA Headquarters, if approval was granted by an official at EPA Headquarters). The approval shall be modified to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(7) of this section within 180 days of the effective date of this final rule, or a separate application for approval of the storage facility may be submitted to the Regional Administrator or the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, in the cases where an official at EPA Headquarters issued the approval.
