
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.65 Storage for disposal.
####### Closure.

(e)(1) A commercial storer of PCB waste shall have a written closure plan that identifies the steps that the owner or operator of the facility shall take to close the PCB waste storage facility in a manner that eliminates the potential for post-closure releases of PCBs which may present an unreasonable risk to human health or the environment. An acceptable closure plan must include, at a minimum, all of the following:

(i) A description of how the PCB storage areas of the facility will be closed in a manner that eliminates the potential for post-closure releases of PCBs into the environment.

(ii) An identification of the maximum extent of storage operations that will be open during the active life of the facility, including an identification of the extent of PCB storage operations at the facility relative to other wastes that will be handled at the facility.

(iii) An estimate of the maximum inventory of PCB wastes that could be handled at one time at the facility over its active life, and a detailed description of the methods or arrangements to be used during closure for removing, transporting, storing, or disposing of the facility's inventory of PCB waste, including an identification of any off-site facilities that will be used.

(iv) A detailed description of the steps needed to remove or decontaminate PCB waste residues and contaminated containment system components, equipment, structures, and soils during closure in accordance with the levels specified in the PCB Spills Cleanup Policy in subpart G of this part, including a description of the methods for sampling and testing of surrounding soils, and the criteria for determining the extent of removal or decontamination.

(v) A detailed description of other activities necessary during the closure period to ensure that any post-closure releases of PCBs will not present unreasonable risks to human health or the environment. This includes activities such as ground-water monitoring, run-on and run-off control, and facility security.

(vi) A schedule for closure of each area of the facility where PCB waste is stored or handled, including the total time required to close each area of PCB waste storage or handling, and the time required for any intervening closure activities.

(vii) An estimate of the expected year of closure of the PCB waste storage areas, if a trust fund is opted for as the financial mechanism.

(2) A written closure plan determined to be acceptable by EPA under this section shall become a condition of any approval granted under paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) A separate and new closure plan need not be submitted in cases where a facility is currently covered by a TSCA approval or a RCRA permit, upon a showing to the satisfaction of the Regional Administrator (or the appropriate official at EPA Headquarters, if the commercial storage area is ancillary to a disposal facility for which an official at EPA Headquarters has approval authority) that the existing closure plan is substantially equivalent to closure plans required under paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section, and that the plan adequately accounts for PCB waste inventories.

(4) The commercial storer of PCB waste shall submit a written request to the Regional Administrator (or the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, if an official at EPA Headquarters approved the closure plan) for a modification to its storage approval to amend its closure plan, whenever:

(i) Changes in ownership, operating plans, or facility design affect the existing closure plan.

(ii) There is a change in the expected date of closure, if applicable.

(iii) In conducting closure activities, unexpected events require a modification of the approved closure plan.

(5) The Regional Administrator or the Director, appropriate official at EPA Headquarters, if an official at EPA Headquarters approved the closure plan, may modify the existing closure plan under the conditions described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(6) Commercial storers of PCB waste shall comply with the following closure schedule:

(i) The commercial storer shall notify in writing the Regional Administrator or the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, if an official at EPA Headquarters approved the closure plan, at least 60 days prior to the date on which final closure of its PCB storage facility is expected to begin.

(ii) The date when a commercial storer of PCB waste "expects to begin closure" shall be no later than 30 days after the date on which the storage facility received its final quantities of PCB waste. For good cause shown, EPA may extend the date for commencement of closure for an additional 30-day period.

(iii) Within 90 days after receiving the final quantity of PCB waste for storage, a commercial storer of PCB waste shall remove all PCB waste in storage at the facility from the facility in accordance with the approved closure plan. For good cause shown, EPA may approve a reasonable extension to the period for removal of the PCB waste.

(iv) A commercial storer of PCB waste shall complete closure activities in accordance with the approved closure plan and within 180 days after receiving the final quantity of PCB waste for storage at the facility. For good cause shown, EPA may approve a reasonable extension to the closure period.

(7) During the closure period, all contaminated system component equipment, structures, and soils shall be disposed of in accordance with the disposal requirements of subpart D of this part, or, if applicable, decontaminated in accordance with the levels specified in the PCB Spills Cleanup Policy at subpart G of this part. When PCB waste is removed from the storage facility during closure, the owner or operator becomes a generator of PCB waste subject to the generator requirements of subpart J of this part.

(8) Within 60 days of completion of closure of each facility for the storage of PCB waste, the commercial storer of PCB waste shall submit to the Regional Administrator (or the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, if an official at EPA Headquarters approved the closure plan), by registered mail, a certification that the PCB storage facility has been closed in accordance with the approved closure plan. The certification shall be signed by the owner or operator and by an independent registered professional engineer.
