
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.65 Storage for disposal.
####### Financial assurance for closure.

(g)A commercial storer of PCB waste shall establish financial assurance for closure of each PCB storage facility that he owns or operates. In establishing financial assurance for closure, the commercial storer of PCB waste may choose from the following financial assurance mechanisms or any combination of mechanisms:

(1) The "closure trust fund," as specified in § 264.143(a) of this chapter, except for paragraph (a)(3) of § 264.143. For purposes of this paragraph, the following provisions also apply:

(i) Payments into the trust fund shall be made annually by the owner or operator over the remaining operating life of the facility as estimated in the closure plan, or over 3 years, whichever period is shorter. This period of time is hereafter referred to as the "pay-in period." For an existing facility, the first payment must be made within 30 calendar days after EPA has notified the facility of its conditional approval. Interim approval to operate is canceled and the application is denied if EPA does not receive verification that the payment was made in that 30-day period.

(ii) For a new facility, the first payment into the closure trust fund shall be made before EPA grants final approval of the application and before the facility may accept the initial shipment of PCB waste for commercial storage. A receipt from the trustee shall be submitted by the owner or operator to the Regional Administrator (or the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, if the commercial storage area is ancillary to a disposal facility approved by an official at EPA Headquarters) before this initial delivery of PCB waste. The first payment shall be at least equal to the current closure cost estimate, divided by the number of years in the pay-in period, except as provided in paragraph (g)(7) of this section for multiple mechanisms. Subsequent payments shall be made no later than 30 days after each anniversary date of the first payment. The amount of each subsequent payment shall be determined by subtracting the current value of the trust fund from the current closure cost estimate, and dividing this difference by the number of years remaining in the pay-in period.

(iii) If an owner or operator of a facility existing on the effective date of this paragraph establishes a trust fund to meet the financial assurance requirements of this paragraph, and the value of the trust fund is less than the current closure cost estimate when a final approval is granted for the facility, the amount of the current closure cost estimate still to be paid into the trust fund shall be paid in over the pay-in period as defined in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section. Payments shall continue to be made no later than 30 days after each anniversary date of the first payment made into the trust fund. The amount of each payment shall be determined by subtracting the current value of the trust fund from the current closure cost estimate, and dividing this difference by the number of years remaining in the pay-in period.

(iv) The submission of a trust agreement with the wording specified in § 264.151(a)(1) of this chapter, including any reference to hazardous waste management facilities, shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirement to submit a trust agreement under this subpart.

(2) The "surety bond guaranteeing payment into a closure trust fund," as specified in § 264.143(b) of this chapter, including the use of the surety bond instrument specified at § 264.151(b) of this chapter and the standby trust specified at § 264.143(b)(3) of this chapter. The use of the surety bonds, surety bond instruments, and standby trust agreements specified in §§ 264.143(b) and 264.151(b) of this chapter shall be deemed to be in compliance with this subpart.

(3)(i) The "surety bond guaranteeing performance of closure," as specified at § 264.143(c) of this chapter, except for paragraph (c)(5) of § 264.143 of this chapter. The submission and use of the surety bond instrument specified at § 264.151(c) of this chapter and the standby trust specified at § 264.143(c)(3) of this chapter shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements under this subpart relating to the use of surety bonds and standby trust funds.

(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph, and under the terms of the bond, the surety shall become liable on the bond obligation when the owner or operator fails to perform as guaranteed by the bond. Liability is established by a final administrative determination pursuant to section 16 of TSCA that the owner or operator has failed to perform final closure in accordance with the closure plan and other approval or regulatory requirements when required to do so.

(4)(i) The "closure letter of credit" specified in § 264.143(d) of this chapter, except for paragraph (d)(8). The submission and use of the irrevocable letter of credit instrument specified in § 264.151(d) of this chapter and the standby trust specified in § 264.143(d)(3) of this chapter shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart relating to the use of letters of credit and standby trust funds.

(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph, the Regional Administrator (or the appropriate official at EPA Headquarters, if the commercial storage area is ancillary to a disposal facility for which an official at EPA Headquarters has approval authority) may draw on the letter of credit following a final administrative determination pursuant to section 16 of TSCA that the owner or operator has failed to perform final closure in accordance with the closure plan and other approval or regulatory requirements when required to do so.

(5) "Closure insurance," as specified in § 264.143(e) of this chapter, utilizing the certificate of insurance for closure specified at § 264.151(e) of this chapter. The use of closure insurance as specified in § 264.143(e) of this chapter and the submission and use of the certificate of insurance specified in § 264.151(e) of this chapter shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart relating to the use of closure insurance.

(6) The "financial test and corporate guarantee for closure," as described in § 264.143(f) of this chapter, including a letter signed by the owner's or operator's chief financial officer as specified at § 264.151(f) of this chapter and, if applicable, the written corporate guarantee specified at § 264.151(h) of this chapter. The use of the financial test and corporate guarantee specified in § 264.143(f) of this chapter, the submission and use of the letter specified in § 264.151(f) of this chapter, and the submission and use of the written corporate guarantee specified at § 264.151(h) of this chapter shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart relating to the use of financial tests and corporate guarantees.

(7) The corporate guarantee as specified in § 264.143(f)(10) of this chapter.

(8) The use of multiple financial mechanisms, as specified in § 264.143(g) of this chapter is permitted.

(9) A modification to a facility storing PCB waste that increases the maximum storage capacity indicated in the permit requires that a new financial assurance mechanism be established or an existing one be amended. When such a modification occurs, the Director of the Federal or State issuing authority must be notified in writing no later than 30 days from the completion of the modification. The new or revised financial assurance mechanism must be established and activated no later than 30 days after the Director of the Federal or State issuing authority is notified of the completion of the modification, but prior to the use of the modified portion of the facility.
