
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.65 Storage for disposal.
####### Survey of Current Business.,Economic Indicators,

(2) During the active life of the PCB storage facility, the commercial storer of PCB waste shall adjust annually for inflation the closure cost estimate within 60 days prior to the anniversary date of the establishment of the financial instruments used to demonstrate financial responsibility for closure, except that owners or operators who use the financial test or corporate guarantee shall adjust their closure cost estimates for inflation within 30 days after the close of the storer's fiscal year. The adjustment may be made by recalculating the maximum costs of closure in current dollars, or by using an inflation factor derived from the most recent Implicit Price Deflator for Gross National Product published by the U.S. Department of Commerce in itsThe Implicit Price Deflator for Gross National Product is included in a monthly publication titledwhich is available from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. The inflation factor used in the latter method is the result of dividing the latest published annual Deflator by the Deflator for the previous year. The adjustment to the closure cost estimate is then made by multiplying the most recent closure cost estimate by the latest inflation factor.

(3) Where EPA approves a modification to the facility's closure plan, and that modification increases the cost of closure, the owner or operator shall revise the closure cost estimate no later than 30 days after the modification is approved. Any such revision shall also be adjusted for inflation in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator of the facility shall keep at the facility during its operating life the most recent closure cost estimate, including any adjustments resulting from inflation or from modifications to the closure plan.
