
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.70 Incineration.
####### a,b,c,d,e,f,g,h

() O; () CO; () CO; () Oxides of Nitrogen (NO); () Hydrochloric Acid (HCl); () Total Chlorinated Organic Content (RCl); () PCBs; and () Total Particulate Matter.

(7) At a minimum monitoring and recording of combustion products and incineration operations shall be conducted for the following parameters whenever the incinerator is incinerating PCBs:

(i) O; (ii) CO; and (iii) CO. The monitoring for Oand CO shall be continuous. The monitoring for COshall be periodic, at a frequency specified by the Regional Administrator or appropriate official at EPA Headquarters.

(8) The flow of PCBs to the incinerator shall stop automatically when any one or more of the following conditions occur, unless a contingency plan is submitted by the incinerator owner or operator and approved by the Regional Administrator or appropriate official at EPA Headquarters. The contingency plan indicates what alternative measures the incinerator owner or operator would take if any of the following conditions occur:

(i) Failure of monitoring operations specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section;

(ii) Failure of the PCB rate and quantity measuring and recording equipment specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or

(iii) Excess oxygen falls below the percentage specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(9) Water scrubbers shall be used for HCl control during PCB incineration and shall meet any performance requirements specified by EPA. Scrubber effluent shall be monitored and shall comply with applicable effluent or pretreatment standards, and any other State and Federal laws and regulations. An alternate method of HCl control may be used if the alternate method has been approved by EPA. (The HCl neutralizing capability of cement kilns is considered to be an alternate method.)
