
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.70 Incineration.
####### Liquid PCBs.

(a)An incinerator used for incinerating PCBs shall be approved by EPA pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. Requests for approval of incinerators to be used in more than one region must be submitted to the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, except for research and development involving less than 500 pounds of PCB material (see ยง 761.60(i)(2)). Requests for approval of incinerators to be used in only one region must be submitted to the appropriate Regional Administrator. The incinerator shall meet all of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section, unless a waiver from these requirements is obtained pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section, In addition, the incinerator shall meet any other requirements which may be prescribed pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(1) Combustion criteria shall be either of the following:

(i) Maintenance of the introduced liquids for a 2-second dwell time at 1200 &#xB0;C (+/-100 &#xB0;C) and 3 percent excess oxygen in the stack gas; or

(ii) Maintenance of the introduced liquids for a 1second dwell time at 1600 &#xB0;C(+/-100 &#xB0;C) and 2 percent excess oxygen in the stack gas.

(2) Combustion efficiency shall be at least 99.9 percent computed as follows:

(3) The rate and quantity of PCBs which are fed to the combustion system shall be measured and recorded at regular intervals of no longer than 15 minutes.

(4) The temperatures of the incineration process shall be continuously measured and recorded. The combustion temperature of the incineration process shall be based on either direct (pyrometer) or indirect (wall thermocouple-pyrometer correlation) temperature readings.

(5) The flow of PCBs to the incinerator shall stop automatically whenever the combustion temperature drops below the temperatures specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(6) Monitoring of stack emission products shall be conducted:

(i) When an incinerator is first used for the disposal of PCBs under the provisions of this regulation;

(ii) When an incinerator is first used for the disposal of PCBs after the incinerator has been modified in a manner which may affect the characteristics of the stack emission products; and

(iii) At a minimum such monitoring shall be conducted for the following parameters:
