
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.70 Incineration.
####### Nonliquid PCBs.

(b)An incinerator used for incinerating nonliquid PCBs, PCB Articles, PCB Equipment, or PCB Containers shall be approved by EPA pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. Requests for approval of incinerators to be used in more than one region must be submitted to the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery except for research and development involving less that 500 pounds of PCB material (see ยง 761.60(i)(2)). Requests for approval of incinerators to be used in only one region must be submitted to the appropriate Regional Administrator. The incinerator shall meet all of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section unless a waiver from these requirements is obtained pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section. In addition, the incinerator shall meet any other requirements that may be prescribed pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(1) The mass air emissions from the incinerator shall be no greater than 0.001g PCB/kg of the PCB introduced into the incinerator.

(2) The incinerator shall comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(2), (3), (4), (6), (7), (8)(i) and (ii), and (9) of this section.
