
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.65 Storage for disposal.
####### Laboratories and samples.

(i)(1) A laboratory is conditionally exempt from the notification and approval requirements for a commercial storer under § 761.65 (d) through (h) when it stores samples held for disposal in a facility that complies with the standards in § 761.65 (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iv).

(2) A laboratory sample is exempt from the manifesting requirements in §§ 761.210 through 761.213 when:

(i) The sample is being transported to a laboratory for the purpose of testing.

(ii) The sample is being transported back to the sample collector after testing.

(iii) The sample is being stored by the sample collector before transport to a laboratory for testing.

(iv) The sample is being stored in a laboratory before testing.

(v) The sample is being stored in a laboratory after testing but before it is returned to the sample collector.

(vi) The sample is being stored temporarily in the laboratory after testing for a specific purpose (for example, until conclusion of a court case or enforcement action where further testing of the sample may be necessary).

(3) In order to qualify for the exemption in paragraph (i)(2)(i) and (i)(2)(ii) of this section, a sample collector shipping samples to a laboratory and a laboratory returning samples to a sample collector must:

(i) Comply with applicable U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) or U.S. Postal Service (USPS) shipping requirements, found respectively in 49 CFR 173.345 and U.S. Postal Regulations 652.2 and 652.3.

(ii) Assure that the following information accompanies the sample:

(A) The sample collector's name, mailing address, and telephone number.

(B) The laboratory's name, mailing address, and telephone number.

(C) The quantity of the sample.

(D) The date of shipment.

(E) A description of the sample.

(iii) Package the sample so that it does not leak, spill, or vaporize from its packaging.

(4) When the concentration of the PCB sample has been determined, and its use is terminated, the sample must be properly disposed. A laboratory must either manifest the PCB waste to a disposer or commercial storer, as required under §§ 761.210 through 761.213, retain a copy of each manifest, as required under §§ 761.213 and 761.214, and follow up on exception reporting, as required under § 761.217, or return the sample to the sample collector who must then properly dispose of the sample. If the laboratory returns the sample to the sample collector, the laboratory must comply with the shipping requirements set forth in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (i)(3)(iii) of this section.
