
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.70 Incineration.
####### Trial burn.

(2)(i) Following receipt of the application described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, EPA shall determine if a trial burn is required and notify the person who submitted the report whether a trial burn of PCBs and PCB Items must be conducted. EPA may require the submission of any other information that EPA finds to be reasonably necessary to determine the need for a trial burn. Such other information shall be restricted to the types of information required in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(ii) If EPA determines that a trail burn must be held, the person who submitted the report described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall submit to the Regional Administrator or the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery a detailed plan for conducting and monitoring the trail burn. At a minimum, the plan must include:

(A) Date trial burn is to be conducted;

(B) Quantity and type of PCBs and PCB Items to be incinerated;

(C) Parameters to be monitored and location of sampling points;

(D) Sampling frequency and methods and schedules for sample analyses; and

(E) Name, address, and qualifications of persons who will review analytical results and other pertinent data, and who will perform a technical evaluation of the effectiveness of the trial burn.

(iii) Following receipt of the plan described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, EPA will approve the plan, require additions or modifications to the plan, or disapprove the plan. If the plan is disapproved, EPA will notify the person who submitted the plan of such disapproval, together with the reasons why it is disapproved. That person may thereafter submit a new plan in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section. If the plan is approved (with any additions or modifications which EPA may prescribe), EPA will notify the person who submitted the plan of the approval. Thereafter, the trial burn shall take place at a date and time to be agreed upon between EPA and the person who submitted the plan.
