
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.72 Scrap metal recovery ovens and smelters.

Any person may dispose of residual PCBs associated with PCB-Contaminated articles regulated for disposal under § 761.60(b), metal surfaces in PCB remediation waste regulated under § 761.61, or metal surfaces in PCB bulk product waste regulated under §§ 761.62(a)(6) and 761.79(c)(6), from which all free-flowing liquids have been removed:

(a) In a scrap metal recovery oven:

(1) The oven shall have at least two enclosed (i.e., negative draft, no fugitive emissions) interconnected chambers.

(2) The equipment with all free-flowing liquid removed shall first be placed in the primary chamber at room temperature.

(3) The primary chamber shall operate at a temperature between 537 &#xB0;C and 650 &#xB0;C for a minimum of 2hours and reach a minimum temperature of 650 &#xB0;C (1,202 &#xB0;F) once during each heating cycle or batch treatment of unheated, liquid-free equipment.

(4) Heated gases from the primary chamber must feed directly into the secondary chamber (i.e., afterburner) which must operate at a minimum temperature of 1,200 &#xB0;C (2,192 &#xB0;F) with at least a 3 percent excess oxygen and a retention time of 2.0 seconds with a minimum combustion efficiency of 99.9 percent according to the definition in § 761.70(a)(2).

(5) Heating of the primary chamber shall not commence until the secondary chamber has reached a temperature of 1,200 +/-100 &#xB0;C (2,192 &#xB0; +/-180 &#xB0;F).

(6) Continuous emissions monitors and recorders for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and excess oxygen in the secondary chamber and continuous temperature recorders in the primary and secondary chambers shall be installed and operated while the primary and secondary chambers are in operation to assure that the two chambers are within the operating parameters in paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(5) of this section.

(7) Emissions from the secondary chamber must be vented through an exhaust gas stack in accordance with either:

(i) State or local air regulations or permits, or

(ii) The standards in paragraph (a)(8) of this section.

(8) Exhaust gas stack emissions shall be for: particulates <0.015 grains/dry standard cubic foot, sulfur dioxide <35 parts per million by volume (ppmv), nitrogen oxide <150 ppmv, carbon monoxide <35 ppmv, and hydrogen chloride <35 ppmv.

(9) A measurement of the temperature in the secondary chamber at the time the primary chamber starts heating must be taken, recorded and retained at the facility for 3 years from the date each charge is introduced into the primary chamber.

(b) By smelting:

(1) The operating temperature of the hearth must be at least 1,000 &#xB0;C at the time it is charged with any PCB-Contaminated non-porous surface.

(2) Each charge containing a PCB-Contaminated item must be added into molten metal or a hearth at ≥1,000 &#xB0;C.

(3) Successive charges may not be introduced into the hearth in less than 15-minute intervals.

(4) The smelter must operate in compliance with any applicable emissions standards in part 60 of this chapter.

(5) The smelter must have an operational device which accurately measures directly or indirectly, the temperature in the hearth.

(6) Take, record and retain at the disposal facility for 3 years from the date each charge is introduced, a reading of the temperature in the hearth at the time it is charged with a non-porous surface item.

(c)(1) Scrap metal recovery ovens and smelters must either have a final permit under RCRA (part 266, subpart H of this chapter and § 270.66 of this chapter) or be operating under a valid State air emissions permit which includes a standard for PCBs.

(2) Scrap metal recovery ovens and smelters disposing of PCBs must provide notification as disposers of PCBs, are not required to submit annual reports, and shall otherwise comply with all applicable provisions of subparts J and K of this part, as well as other applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations.

(3) In lieu of the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, upon written request by the owner or operator of a scrap metal recovery oven or smelter, the EPA Regional Administrator, for the Region where the oven or smelter is located, may make a finding in writing, based on a site-specific risk assessment, that the oven or smelter does not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment because it is operating in compliance with the parameters and conditions listed in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section even though the oven or smelter does not have a RCRA or State air permit as required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The written request shall include a site-specific risk assessment.

(d) PCB liquids, other liquid waste qualifying as waste oils which may be used as provided for at § 761.20(e), or PCB remediation waste, other than PCB-Contaminated articles, may not be disposed of in a scrap metal recovery oven or smelter unless approved or otherwise allowed under subpart D of this part.
