
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.75 Chemical waste landfills.
####### Chemical waste landfill operations.

(8)(i) PCBs and PCB Items shall be placed in a landfill in a manner that will prevent damage to containers or articles. Other wastes placed in the landfill that are not chemically compatible with PCBs and PCB Items including organic solvents shall be segregated from the PCBs throughout the waste handling and disposal process.

(ii) An operation plan shall be developed and submitted to the Regional Administrator for approval as required in paragraph (c) of this section. This plan shall include detailed explanations of the procedures to be used for recordkeeping, surface water handling procedures, excavation and backfilling, waste segregation burial coordinates, vehicle and equipment movement, use of roadways, leachate collection systems, sampling and monitoring procedures, monitoring wells, environmental emergency contingency plans, and security measures to protect against vandalism and unauthorized waste placements. EPA guidelines entitled "Thermal Processing and Land Disposal of Solid Waste" (39 FR 29337, Aug. 14, 1974) are a useful reference in preparation of this plan. If the facility is to be used to dispose of liquid wastes containing between 50 ppm and 500 ppm PCB, the operations plan must include procedures to determine that liquid PCBs to be disposed of at the landfill do not exceed 500 ppm PCB and measures to prevent the migration of PCBs from the landfill. Bulk liquids not exceeding 500 ppm PCBs may be disposed of provided such waste is pretreated and/or stabilized (e.g., chemically fixed, evaporated, mixed with dry inert absorbant) to reduce its liquid content or increase its solid content so that a non-flowing consistency is achieved to eliminate the presence of free liquids prior to final disposal in a landfill. PCB Container of liquid PCBs with a concentration between 50 and 500 ppm PCB may be disposed of if each container is surrounded by an amount of inert sorbant material capable of absorbing all of the liquid contents of the container.

(iii) Ignitable wastes shall not be disposed of in chemical waste landfills. Liquid ignitable wastes are wastes that have a flash point less than 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F) as determined by the following method or an equivalent method: Flash point of liquids shall be determined by a Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester, using the protocol specified in ASTM D93-09, or the Setaflash Closed Tester using the protocol specified in ASTM D3278-89 (all standards incorporated by reference in ยง 761.19).

(iv) Records shall be maintained for all PCB disposal operations and shall include information on the PCB concentration in liquid wastes and the three dimensional burial coordinates for PCBs and PCB Items. Additional records shall be developed and maintained as required in ยง 761.180.
