
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.77 Coordinated approval.
####### General requirements.

(a)Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which a PCB disposal or PCB commercial storage facility described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section is located may issue a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval to the persons described in those paragraphs if the conditions listed in this section are met. A TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval will designate the persons who own and who are authorized to operate the facilities described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and will apply only to such persons. All requirements, conditions, and limitations of any other permit or waste management document cited or described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, as the technical or legal basis on which the TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval is issued, are conditions of the TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval.

(1) Persons seeking a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval shall submit a request for approval by certified mail, to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the activity will take place. Persons seeking a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval for a new PCB activity shall submit the request for approval at the same time they seek a permit, approval, or other action for a PCB waste management activity under any other Federal or State authority.

(i) The request for a TSCA PCB Coordinated Approval shall include a copy of the letter from EPA announcing or confirming the EPA identification number issued to the facility for conducting PCB activities; the name, organization, and telephone number of the person who is the contact point for the non-TSCA Federal or State waste management authority; a copy of the relevant permit or waste management document specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, including all requirements, conditions, and limitations, if the EPA Regional Administrator does not have a copy of the document, or a description of the waste management activities to be conducted if a permit or other relevant waste management document has not been issued; and a certification that the person who owns or operates the facility is aware of and will adhere to the TSCA PCB reporting and recordkeeping requirements at subparts J and K of this part.

(ii) The EPA Regional Administrator shall review the request for completeness, for compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and to ensure that the PCB activity for which approval is requested will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. The EPA Regional Administrator shall either:

(A) Issue a written notice of deficiency explaining why the request for approval is deficient. If appropriate, the EPA Regional Administrator may either:
