
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.79 Decontamination standards and procedures.
####### Decontamination waste and residues.

(g)Decontamination waste and residues shall be disposed of at their existing PCB concentration unless otherwise specified.

(1) Distillation bottoms or residues and filter media are regulated for disposal as PCB remediation waste.

(2) PCBs physically separated from regulated waste during decontamination (such as by chopping, shredding, scraping, abrading or oil/water separation, as opposed to solvent rinsing and soaking), other than wastes described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, are regulated for disposal at their original concentration.

(3) Hydrocarbon solvent used or reused for decontamination under this section that contains <50 ppm PCB must be burned and marketed in accordance with the requirements for used oil in § 761.20(e), disposed of in accordance with § 761.60(a) or (e), or decontaminated pursuant to this section.

(4) Chlorinated solvent at any PCB concentration used for decontamination under this section shall be disposed of in an incinerator operating in compliance with § 761.70, or decontaminated pursuant to this section.

(5) Solvents ≥50 ppm other than those described in paragraphs (g)(3) and (g)(4) of this section shall be disposed of in accordance with § 761.60(a) or decontaminated pursuant to this section.

(6) Non-liquid cleaning materials and personal protective equipment waste at any concentration, including non-porous surfaces and other non-liquid materials such as rags, gloves, booties, other disposable personal protective equipment, and similar materials resulting from decontamination shall be disposed of in accordance with § 761.61(a)(5)(v).
