
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.79 Decontamination standards and procedures.
####### Sampling and recordkeeping.

(f)(1) Confirmatory sampling is required under paragraph (b) of this section. For liquids described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, sample in accordance with §§ 761.269 and 761.272. For non-porous surfaces and concrete described in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section, sample in accordance with subpart P of this part. A written record of such sampling must be established and maintained for 3 years from the date of any decontamination under this section. The record must show sampling locations and analytical results and must be retained at the site of the decontamination or a copy of the record must be made available to EPA in a timely manner, if requested. In addition, recordkeeping is required in accordance with § 761.180(a) for all wastes generated by a decontamination process and regulated for disposal under this subpart.

(2) Confirmatory sampling is not required for self-implementing decontamination procedures under paragraph (c) of this section. Any person using these procedures must retain a written record documenting compliance with the procedures for 3 years after completion of the decontamination procedures (e.g., video recordings, photographs).
