
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.79 Decontamination standards and procedures.
####### Applicability.

(a)This section establishes decontamination standards and procedures for removing PCBs, which are regulated for disposal, from water, organic liquids, non-porous surfaces (including scrap metal from disassembled electrical equipment), concrete, and non-porous surfaces covered with a porous surface, such as paint or coating on metal.

(1) Decontamination in accordance with this section does not require a disposal approval under subpart D of this part.

(2) Materials from which PCBs have been removed by decontamination in accordance with this section may be distributed in commerce in accordance with ยง 761.20(c)(5).

(3) Materials from which PCBs have been removed by decontamination in accordance with this section may be used or reused in accordance with ยง 761.30(u).

(4) Materials from which PCBs have been removed by decontamination in accordance with this section, not including decontamination waste and residuals under paragraph (g) of this section, are unregulated for disposal under subpart D of this part.

(5) Any person decontaminating porous surfaces other than concrete under paragraph (b)(4) of this section and non-porous surfaces covered with a porous surface, such as paint or coating on metal, under paragraph (b)(3) or (c)(6) of this section must obtain an alternative decontamination approval in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.

(6) Any person engaging in decontamination under this section is responsible for determining and complying with all other applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations.
