
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.79 Decontamination standards and procedures.
####### Decontamination standards.

(b)Chopping (including wire chopping), distilling, filtering, oil/water separation, spraying, soaking, wiping, stripping of insulation, scraping, scarification or the use of abrasives or solvents may be used to remove or separate PCBs, to the following standards, from liquids, concrete, or non-porous surfaces.

(1) The decontamination standard for water containing PCBs is:

(i) Less than 200 µg/L (i.e., <200 ppb PCBs) for non-contact use in a closed system where there are no releases;

(ii) For water discharged to a treatment works (as defined in § 503.9(aa) of this chapter) or to navigable waters, <3 µg/L (approximately <3 ppb) or a PCB discharge limit included in a permit issued under section 307(b) or 402 of the Clean Water Act; or

(iii) Less than or equal to 0.5 µg/L (i.e., approximately &#x2264;0.5 ppb PCBs) for unrestricted use.

(2) The decontamination standard for organic liquids and non-aqueous inorganic liquids containing PCBs is <2 milligrams per kilogram (i.e., <2 ppm PCBs).

(3) The decontamination standard for non-porous surfaces in contact with liquid and non-liquid PCBs is:

(i) For unrestricted use:

(A) For non-porous surfaces previously in contact with liquid PCBs at any concentration, where no free-flowing liquids are currently present, &#x2264;10 micrograms PCBs per 100 square centimeters (&#x2264;10 µg/100 cm) as measured by a standard wipe test (§ 761.123) at locations selected in accordance with subpart P of this part.

(B) For non-porous surfaces in contact with non-liquid PCBs (including non-porous surfaces covered with a porous surface, such as paint or coating on metal), cleaning to Visual Standard No. 2, Near-White Blast Cleaned Surface Finish, of the National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE). A person shall verify compliance with standard No. 2 by visually inspecting all cleaned areas.

(ii) For disposal in a smelter operating in accordance with § 761.72(b):

(A) For non-porous surfaces previously in contact with liquid PCBs at any concentration, where no free-flowing liquids are currently present, <100 µg/100 cmas measured by a standard wipe test (§ 761.123) at locations selected in accordance with subpart P of this part.

(B) For non-porous surfaces in contact with non-liquid PCBs (including non-porous surfaces covered with a porous surface, such as paint or coating on metal), cleaning to Visual Standard No. 3, Commercial Blast Cleaned Surface Finish, of the National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE). A person shall verify compliance with standard No. 3 by visually inspecting all cleaned areas.

(4) The decontamination standard for concrete is &#x2264;10 µg/100 cmas measured by a standard wipe test (§ 761.123) if the decontamination procedure is commenced within 72 hours of the initial spill of PCBs to the concrete or portion thereof being decontaminated.
