
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### § 761.79 Decontamination standards and procedures.
####### Self-implementing decontamination procedures.

(c)The following self-implementing decontamination procedures are available as an alternative to the measurement-based decontamination methods specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Any person performing self-implementing decontamination must comply with one of the following procedures.

(1) Any person decontaminating a PCB Container must do so by flushing the internal surfaces of the container three times with a solvent containing <50 ppm PCBs. Each rinse shall use a volume of the flushing solvent equal to approximately 10 percent of the PCB Container capacity.

(2) Any person decontaminating movable equipment contaminated by PCBs, tools, and sampling equipment may do so by:

(i) Swabbing surfaces that have contacted PCBs with a solvent;

(ii) A double wash/rinse as defined in subpart S of this part; or

(iii) Another applicable decontamination procedure in this section.

(3) Any person decontaminating a non-porous surface in contact with free-flowing mineral oil dielectric fluid (MODEF) at levels &#x2264;10,000 ppm PCBs must do so as follows:

(i) Drain the free-flowing MODEF and allow the residual surfaces to drain for an additional 15 hours.

(ii) Dispose of drained MODEF according to paragraph (g) of this section.

(iii) Soak the surfaces to be decontaminated in a sufficient amount of clean (containing <2 ppm PCBs) performance-based organic decontamination fluid (PODF) such that there is a minimum of 800 ml of PODF for each 100 cmof contaminated or potentially contaminated surface for at least 15 hours at ≥20 &#xB0;C.

(iv) Approved PODFs include:

(A) Kerosene.

(B) Diesel fuel.

(C) Terpene hydrocarbons.

(D) Mixtures of terpene hydrocarbons and terpene alcohols.

(v) Drain the PODF from the surfaces.

(vi) Dispose of the drained PODF in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(4) Any person decontaminating a non-porous surface in contact with free-flowing MODEF containing >10,000 ppm PCB in MODEF or askarel PCB (up to 70 percent PCB in a mixture of trichlorobenzenes and tetrachlorobenzenes) must do so as follows:

(i) Drain the free-flowing MODEF or askarel and allow the residual surfaces to drain for an additional 15 hours.

(ii) Dispose of drained MODEF or askarel according to paragraph (g) of this section.

(iii) Soak the surfaces to be decontaminated in a sufficient amount of clean PODF (containing <2 ppm PCBs) such that there is a minimum of 800 ml of PODF for each 100 cmof contaminated or potentially contaminated surface for at least 15 hours at ≥20 &#xB0;C.

(iv) Approved PODFs include:

(A) Kerosene.

(B) Diesel fuel.

(C) Terpene hydrocarbons.

(D) Mixtures of terpene hydrocarbons and terpene alcohols.

(v) Drain the PODF from the surfaces.

(vi) Dispose of the drained PODF in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(vii) Resoak the surfaces to be decontaminated, pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, in a sufficient amount of clean PODF (containing <2 ppm PCBs) such that there is a minimum of 800 ml of PODF for each 100 cmof surface for at least 15 hours at ≥20 &#xB0;C.

(viii) Drain the PODF from the surfaces.

(ix) Dispose of the drained PODF in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(5) Any person decontaminating piping and air lines in an air compressor system must do so as follows:

(i) Before decontamination proceeds, disconnect or bypass the air compressors and air dryers from the piping and air lines and decontaminate the air compressors and air dryers separately in accordance with paragraphs (b), (c)(1) through (c)(4), or (c)(6) of this section. Dispose of filter media and desiccant in the air dyers based on their existing PCB concentration.

(ii) Test the connecting line and appurtenances of the system to assure that there is no leakage. Test by introducing air into the closed system at from 90 to 100 pounds per square inch (psi). Only if there is a pressure drop of <5 psi in 30 minutes may decontamination take place.

(iii) When there is no leakage, fill the piping and air lines with clean (containing <2 ppm PCBs) solvent. Solvents include PODF, aqueous potassium hydroxide at a pH between 9 and 12, or water containing 5 percent sodium hydroxide by weight.

(iv) Circulate the solvent to achieve turbulent flow through the piping and air lines in the air compressor system until the total volume of solvent circulated equals 10 times the total volume of the particular article being decontaminated, then drain the solvent. Calculate the total volume of solvent circulated by multiplying the pump rate by the time of pumping. Turbulent flow means a Reynolds number range from 20,000 to 43,000. Refill the system with clean solvent and repeat the circulation and drain process.

(6) Any person using thermal processes to decontaminate metal surfaces in contact with PCBs, as required by § 761.62(a)(6), must use one of the following options:

(i) Surfaces in contact with liquid and non-liquid PCBs at concentrations <500 ppm may be decontaminated in a scrap metal recovery oven or smelter for purposes of disposal in accordance with § 761.72.

(ii) Surfaces in contact with liquid or non-liquid PCBs at concentrations ≥500 ppm may be smelted in a smelter operating in accordance with § 761.72(b), but must first be decontaminated in accordance with § 761.72(a) or to a surface concentration of <100 µg/100 cm.
