
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart D - Storage and Disposal
###### ยง 761.79 Decontamination standards and procedures.
####### Alternative decontamination or sampling approval.

(h)(1) Any person wishing to decontaminate material described in paragraph (a) of this section in a manner other than prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section must apply in writing to the Regional Administrator in the Region where the activity would take place, for decontamination activity occurring in a single EPA Region; or to the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, for decontamination activity occurring in more than one EPA Region. Each application must describe the material to be decontaminated and the proposed decontamination method, and must demonstrate that the proposed method is capable of decontaminating the material to the applicable level set out in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.

(2) Any person wishing to decontaminate material described in paragraph (a) of this section using a self-implementing procedure other than prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section must apply in writing to the Regional Administrator in the Region where the activity would take place, for decontamination activity occurring in a single EPA Region; or to the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, for decontamination activity occurring in more than one EPA Region. Each application must describe the material to be decontaminated and the proposed self-implementing decontamination method and must include a proposed validation study to confirm performance of the method.

(3) Any person wishing to sample decontaminated material in a manner other than prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section must apply in writing to the Regional Administrator in the Region where the activity would take place, for decontamination activity occurring in a single EPA Region; or to the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, for decontamination activity occurring in more than one EPA Region. Each application must contain a description of the material to be decontaminated, the nature and PCB concentration of the contaminating material (if known), the decontamination method, the proposed sampling procedure, and a justification for how the proposed sampling is equivalent to or more comprehensive than the sampling procedure required under paragraph (f) of this section.

(4) EPA may request additional information that it believes necessary to evaluate the application.

(5) EPA will issue a written decision on each application for risk-based decontamination or sampling. No person may conduct decontamination or sampling under this paragraph prior to obtaining written approval from EPA. EPA will approve an application if it finds that the proposed decontamination or sampling method will not pose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.
