
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart G - PCB Spill Cleanup Policy
###### ยง 761.120 Scope.
####### Spills that may require more stringent cleanup levels.

(b)For spills within the scope of this policy, EPA generally retains, under ยง 761.135, the authority to require additional cleanup upon finding that, despite good faith efforts by the responsible party, the numerical decontamination levels in the policy have not been met. In addition, EPA foresees the possibility of exceptional spill situations in which site-specific risk factors may warrant additional cleanup to more stringent numerical decontamination levels than are required by the policy. In these situations, the Regional Administrator has the authority to require cleanup to levels lower than those included in this policy upon finding that further cleanup must occur to prevent unreasonable risk. The Regional Administrator will consult with the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, prior to making such a finding.

(1) For example, site-specific characteristics, such as short depth to ground water, type of soil, or the presence of a shallow well, may pose exceptionally high potential for ground water contamination by PCBs remaining after cleanup to the standards specified in this policy. Spills that pose such a high degree of potential for ground water contamination have not been excluded from the policy under paragraph (d) of this section because the presence of such potential may not be readily apparent. EPA feels that automatically excluding such spills from the scope of the policy could result in the delay of cleanup-a particularly undesirable outcome if potential ground water contamination is, in fact, a significant concern.

(2) In those situations, the Regional Administrator may require cleanup in addition to that required under ยง 761.125(b) and (c). However, the Regional Administrator must first make a finding, based on the specific facts of a spill, that additional cleanup is necessary to prevent unreasonable risk. In addition, before making a final decision on additional cleanup, the Regional Administrator must notify the Director, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery of his finding and the basis for the finding.
