
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart G - PCB Spill Cleanup Policy
###### ยง 761.120 Scope.
####### Excluded spills.

(d)(1) Although the spill situations in paragraphs (d)(2) (i) through (vi) of this section are excluded from the automatic application of final decontamination standards under ยง 761.125 (b) and (c), the general requirements under ยง 761.125(a) do apply to these spills. In addition, all of these excluded situations require practicable, immediate actions to contain the area of contamination. While these situations may not always require more stringent cleanup measures, the Agency is excluding these scenarios because they will always involve significant factors that may not be adequately addressed by cleanup standards based upon typical spill characteristics.

(2) For the spill situations in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section, the responsible party shall decontaminate the spill in accordance with site-specific requirements established by the EPA regional offices.

(i) Spills that result in the direct contamination of surface waters (surface waters include, but are not limited to, "waters of the United States" as defined in part 122 of this chapter, ponds, lagoons, wetlands, and storage reservoirs).

(ii) Spills that result in the direct contamination of sewers or sewage treatment systems.

(iii) Spills that result in the direct contamination of any private or public drinking water sources or distribution systems.

(iv) Spills which migrate to and contaminate surface waters, sewers, or drinking water supplies before cleanup has been completed in accordance with this policy.

(v) Spills that contaminate animal grazing lands.

(vi) Spills that contaminate vegetable gradens.
