
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart G - PCB Spill Cleanup Policy
###### ยง 761.125 Requirements for PCB spill cleanup.
####### Reporting requirements.

(1)The reporting in paragraphs (a)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section is required in addition to applicable reporting requirements under the Clean Water Act (CWA) or the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA). For example, under the National Contingency Plan all spills involving 1 pound or more by weight of PCBs must currently be reported to the National Response Center (1-800-424-8802). The requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section are designed to be consistent with existing reporting requirements to the extent possible so as to minimize reporting burdens on governments as well as the regulated community.

(i) Where a spill directly contaminates surface water, sewers, or drinking water supplies, as discussed under ยง 761.120(d), the responsible party shall notify the appropriate EPA regional office and obtain guidance for appropriate cleanup measures in the shortest possible time after discovery, but in no case later than 24 hours after discovery.

(ii) Where a spill directly contaminates grazing lands or vegetable gardens, as discussed under ยง 761.120(d), the responsible party shall notify the appropriate EPA regional office and proceed with the immediate requirements specified under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, depending on the source of the spill, in the shortest possible time after discovery, but in no case later than 24 hours after discovery.

(iii) Where a spill exceeds 10 pounds of PCBs by weight and is not addressed in paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, the responsible party will notify the appropriate EPA regional office and proceed to decontaminate the spill area in accordance with this TSCA policy in the shortest possible time after discovery, but in no case later than 24 hours after discovery.

(iv) Spills of 10 pounds or less, which are not addressed in paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, must be cleaned up in accordance with this policy (in order to avoid EPA enforcement liability), but notification of EPA is not required.
