
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart G - PCB Spill Cleanup Policy
###### ยง 761.125 Requirements for PCB spill cleanup.
####### Immediate requirements.

(1)The four actions in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section must be taken as quickly as possible and within no more than 24 hours (or within 48 hours for PCB Transformers) after the responsible party was notified or became aware of the spill, except that actions described in paragraphs (c)(1) (ii) through (iv) of this section can be delayed beyond 24 hours if circumstances (e.g., civil emergency, hurricane, tornado, or other similar adverse weather conditions, lack of access due to physical impossibility, or emergency operating conditions) so require for the duration of the adverse conditions. The occurrence of a spill on a weekend or overtime costs are not acceptable reasons to delay response. Owners of spilled PCBs who have delayed cleanup because of these types of circumstances must keep records documenting the fact that circumstances precluded rapid response.

(i) The responsible party shall notify the EPA regional office and the NRC as required by ยง 761.125(a)(1) or by other applicable statutes.

(ii) The responsible party shall effectively cordon off or otherwise delineate and restrict an area encompassing any visible traces plus a 3-foot buffer and place clearly visible signs advising persons to avoid the area to minimize the spread of contamination as well as the potential for human exposure.

(iii) The responsible party shall record and document the area of visible contamination, noting the extent of the visible trace areas and the center of the visible trace area. If there are no visible traces, the responsible party shall record this fact and contact the regional office of the EPA for guidance in completing statistical sampling of the spill area to establish spill boundaries.

(iv) The responsible party shall initiate cleanup of all visible traces of the fluid on hard surfaces and initiate removal of all visible traces of the spill on soil and other media, such as gravel, sand, oyster shells, etc.

(v) If there has been a delay in reaching the site and there are insufficient visible traces of PCBs remaining at the spill site, the responsible party must estimate (based on the amount of material missing from the equipment or container) the area of the spill and immediately cordon off the area of suspect contamination. The responsible party must then utilize a statistically based sampling scheme to identify the boundaries of the spill area as soon as practicable.

(vi) Although this policy requires certain immediate actions, as described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, EPA is not placing a time limit on completion of the cleanup effort since the time required for completion will vary from case to case. However, EPA expects that decontamination will be achieved promptly in all cases and will consider promptness of completion in determining whether the responsible party made good faith efforts to clean up in accordance with this policy.
