
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart G - PCB Spill Cleanup Policy
###### § 761.125 Requirements for PCB spill cleanup.
####### Requirements for decontaminating spills in other restricted access areas.

(3)Spills which occur in restricted access locations other than outdoor electrical substations, as defined under § 761.123, shall be decontaminated in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3) (i) through (v) of this section. Conformance to the cleanup standards in paragraphs (c)(3) (i) through (v) of this section shall be verified by postcleanup sampling as specified under § 761.130. At such times as restricted access areas other than outdoor electrical substations are converted to another use, the spill site shall be cleaned up to the nonrestricted access area requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(i) High-contact solid surfaces, as defined under § 761.163 shall be cleaned to 10 µg/100 cm(as measured by standard wipe tests).

(ii) Low-contact, indoor, impervious solid surfaces will be decontaminated to 10 µg/100 cm.

(iii) At the option of the responsible party, low-contact, indoor, nonimpervious surfaces will be cleaned either to 10 µg/100 cmor to 100 µg/100 cmand encapsulated. The Regional Administrator, however, retains the authority to disallow the encapsulation option for a particular spill situation upon finding that the uncertainties associated with that option pose special concerns at that site. That is, the Regional Administrator would not permit encapsulation if he/she determined that if the encapsulation failed the failure would create an imminent hazard at the site.

(iv) Low-contact, outdoor surfaces (both impervious and nonimpervious) shall be cleaned to 100 µg/100 cm.

(v) Soil contaminated by the spill will be cleaned to 25 ppm PCBs by weight.
