
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart G - PCB Spill Cleanup Policy
###### ยง 761.125 Requirements for PCB spill cleanup.
####### Records and certification.

(3)At the completion of cleanup, the responsible party shall document the cleanup with records and certification of decontamination. The records and certification must be maintained for a period of 5 years. The records and certification shall consist of the following:

(i) Identification of the source of the spill (e.g., type of equipment).

(ii) Estimated or actual date and time of the spill occurrence.

(iii) The date and time cleanup was completed or terminated (if cleanup was delayed by emergency or adverse weather: the nature and duration of the delay).

(iv) A brief description of the spill location.

(v) Precleanup sampling data used to establish the spill boundaries if required because of insufficient visible traces, and a brief description of the sampling methodology used to establish the spill boundaries.

(vi) A brief description of the solid surfaces cleaned and of the double wash/rinse method used.

(vii) Approximate depth of soil excavation and the amount of soil removed.

(viii) A certification statement signed by the responsible party stating that the cleanup requirements have been met and that the information contained in the record is true to the best of his/her knowledge.

(ix) While not required for compliance with this policy, the following information would be useful if maintained in the records:

(A) Additional pre- or post-cleanup sampling.

(B) The estimated cost of the cleanup by man-hours, dollars, or both.
