
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart G - PCB Spill Cleanup Policy
###### § 761.125 Requirements for PCB spill cleanup.
####### Requirements for decontaminating spills in outdoor electrical substations.

(2)Spills which occur in outdoor electrical substations, as defined under § 761.123, shall be decontaminated in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section. Conformance to the cleanup standards under paragraphs (c)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section shall be verified by post-cleanup sampling as specified under § 761.130. At such times as outdoor electrical substations are converted to another use, the spill site shall be cleaned up to the nonrestricted access requirements under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(i) Contaminated solid surfaces (both impervious and non-impervious) shall be cleaned to a PCB concentration of 100 micrograms (µg)/100 square centimeters (cm) (as measured by standard wipe tests).

(ii) At the option of the responsible party, soil contaminated by the spill will be cleaned either to 25 ppm PCBs by weight, or to 50 ppm PCBs by weight provided that a label or notice is visibly placed in the area. Upon demonstration by the responsible party that cleanup to 25 ppm or 50 ppm will jeopardize the integrity of the electrical equipment at the substation, the EPA regional office may establish an alternative cleanup method or level and place the responsible party on a reasonably timely schedule for completion of cleanup.
