
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart G - PCB Spill Cleanup Policy
###### § 761.125 Requirements for PCB spill cleanup.
####### Requirements for decontaminating spills in nonrestricted access areas.

(4)Spills which occur in nonrestricted access locations, as defined under § 761.123, shall be decontaminated in accordance with paragraphs (c)(4) (i) through (v) of this section. Conformance to the cleanup standards at paragraphs (c)(4) (i) through (v) of this section shall be verified by postcleanup sampling as specified under § 761.130.

(i) Furnishings, toys, and other easily replaceable household items shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of subpart D of this part and replaced by the responsible party.

(ii) Indoor solid surfaces and high-contact outdoor solid surfaces, defined as high contact residential/commercial surfaces under § 761.123, shall be cleaned to 10 µg/100 cm(as measured by standard wipe tests).

(iii) Indoor vault areas and low-contact, outdoor, impervious solid surfaces shall be decontaminated to 10 µg/100 cm.

(iv) At the option of the responsible party, low-contact, outdoor, nonimpervious solid surfaces shall be either cleaned to 10 µg/100 cmor cleaned to 100 µg/100 cmand encapsulated. The Regional Administrator, however, retains the authority to disallow the encapsulation option for a particular spill situation upon finding that the uncertainties associated with that option pose special concerns at that site. That is, the Regional Administrator would not permit encapsulation if he/she determined that if the encapsulation failed the failure would create an imminent hazard at the site.

(v) Soil contaminated by the spill will be decontaminated to 10 ppm PCBs by weight provided that soil is excavated to a minimum depth of 10 inches. The excavated soil will be replaced with clean soil, i.e., containing less than 1 ppm PCBs, and the spill site will be restored (e.g., replacement of turf).
