
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart J - General Records and Reports
###### § 761.180 Records and monitoring.
####### e.g.,

(B) The serial number (if available) or other means of identifying each PCB Article (transformer or capacitor), the weight in kilograms of the PCB waste in each transformer or capacitor, the date it was removed from service for disposal, the date it was placed in transport for off-site storage or disposal, and the date of disposal, if known.

(C) A unique number identifying each PCB Container, a description of the contents of each PCB Container, such as liquid, soil, cleanup debris, etc., including the total weight of the material in kilograms in each PCB Container, the first date material placed in each PCB Container was removed from service for disposal, and the date each PCB Container was placed in transport for off-site storage or disposal, and the date of disposal (if known).

(D) A unique number identifying each PCB Article Container, a description of the contents of each PCB Article Container, such as pipes, capacitors, electric motors, pumps, etc., including the total weight in kilograms of the content of each PCB Article Container, the first date a PCB Article placed in each PCB Article Container was removed from service for disposal, and the date the PCB Article Container was placed in transport for off-site storage or disposal, and the date of disposal (if known.)

(iii) The total number by specific type of PCB Articles and the total weight in kilograms of PCBs in PCB Articles, the total number of PCB Article Containers and total weight in kilograms of the contents of PCB Article Containers, the total number of PCB Containers and the total weight in kilograms of the contents of PCB Containers, and the total weight in kilograms of bulk PCB waste that was placed into storage for disposal or disposed during the calendar year.

(iv) The total number of PCB Transformers and total weight in kilograms of PCBs contained in the transformers remaining in service at the end of the calendar year.

(v) The total number of Large High or Low Voltage PCB Capacitors remaining in service at the end of the calendar year.

(vi) The total weight in kilograms of any PCBs and PCB Items in PCB Containers, including the identification of container contents, remaining in service at the facility at the end of the calendar year.

(vii) For any PCBs or PCB item received from or shipped to another facility owned or operated by the same generator, the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (a)(2)(ii)(D) of this section.

(viii) [Reserved]

(ix) Whenever a PCB Item, excluding small capacitors, with a concentration of ≥50 ppm is distributed in commerce for reuse pursuant to § 761.20(c)(1), the name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom the item was transferred, date of transfer, and the serial number of the item or the internal identification number, if a serial number is not available, must be recorded in the annual document log. The serial number or internal identification number shall be permanently marked on the equipment.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) For purposes of this paragraph, PCB Voltage Regulators shall be recorded as PCB Transformers.
