
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart J - General Records and Reports
###### ยง 761.180 Records and monitoring.
####### e.g.,

(A) For bulk PCB waste (in a tanker or truck), its weight in kilograms, the first date PCB waste placed in the tanker or truck was removed from service for disposal, the date it was received at the facility, the date it was placed in transport for off-site disposal (if applicable), and the date of disposal, (if known).

(B) The serial number or other means of identifying each PCB Article, not in a PCB Container or PCB Article Container, the weight in kilograms of the PCB waste in the PCB Article, the date it was removed from service for disposal, the date it was received at the facility, the date it was placed in transport for off-site disposal (if applicable), and the date of disposal (if known).

(C) The unique number assigned by the generator identifying each PCB Container, a description of the contents of each PCB Container, such as liquid, soil, cleanup debris, etc., including the total weight of the PCB waste in kilograms in each PCB Container, the first date PCB waste placed in each PCB Container was removed from service for disposal, the date it was received at the facility, the date each PCB Container was placed in transport for off-site storage or disposal (as applicable), and the date the PCB Container was disposed of (if known).

(D) The unique number assigned by the generator identifying each PCB Article Container, a description of the contents of each PCB Article Container, such as pipes, capacitors, electric motors, pumps, etc., including the total weight in kilograms of the PCB waste in each PCB Article Container, the first date a PCB Article placed in each PCB Article Container was removed from service for disposal, the date it was received at the facility, the date each PCB Article Container was placed in transport for off-site storage or disposal (as applicable), and the date the PCB Article Container was disposed of (if known).

(E) Disposers of PCB waste shall include the confirmed date of disposal for items in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) through (b)(2)(ii)(D) of this section.

(iii) For any PCB waste disposed at a facility that generated the PCB waste or any PCB waste that was not manifested to the facility, the information required under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) through (b)(2)(ii)(E) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator of a PCB disposal facility (including an owner or operator who disposes of his/her own waste and does not receive or generate manifests) or a commercial storage facility shall submit an annual report, which briefly summarizes the records and annual document log required to be maintained and prepared under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section to the EPA Regional Administrator of the Region in which the facility is located by July 15 of each year, beginning with July 15, 1991. The first annual report submitted on July 15, 1991, shall be for the period starting February 5, 1990, and ending December 31, 1990. The annual report shall contain no confidential business information. The annual report shall consist of the information listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(vi) of this section.

(i) The name, address, and EPA identification number of the facility covered by the annual report for the calendar year.

(ii) A list of the numbers of all signed manifests of PCB waste initiated or received by the facility during that year.

(iii) The total weight in kilograms of bulk PCB waste, PCB waste in PCB Transformers, PCB waste in PCB Large High or Low Voltage Capacitors, PCB waste in PCB Article Containers, and PCB waste in PCB Containers in storage at the facility at the beginning of the calendar year, received or generated at the facility, transferred to another facility, or disposed of at the facility during the calendar year. The information must be provided for each of these categories, as appropriate.

(iv) The total number of PCB Transformers, the total number of PCB Large High or Low Voltage Capacitors, the total number of PCB Article Containers, and the total number of PCB Containers in storage at the facility at the beginning of the calendar year, received or generated at the facility, transferred to another facility, or disposed of at the facility during the calendar year. The information must be provided for each of these categories, as appropriate.

(v) The total weight in kilograms of each of the following PCB categories: bulk PCB waste, PCB waste in PCB Transformers, PCB waste in PCB Large High or Low Voltage Capacitors, PCB waste in PCB Article Containers, and PCB waste in PCB Containers remaining in storage for disposal at the facility at the end of the calendar year.

(vi) The total number of PCB Transformers, the total number of PCB Large High or Low Voltage Capacitors, the total number of PCB Article Containers, and the total number of PCB Containers remaining in storage for disposal at the facility at the end of the calendar year.

(vii) The requirement to submit annual reports to the Regional Administrator continues until the submission of the annual report for the calendar year during which the facility ceases PCB storage or disposal operations. Storage operations have not ceased until all PCB waste, including any PCB waste generated during closure, has been removed from the facility.

(4) Whenever a commercial storer of PCB waste accepts PCBs or PCB Items at his storage facility and transfers the PCB waste off-site to another facility for storage or disposal, the commercial storer of PCB waste shall initiate a manifest under subpart K of this part for the transfer of PCBs or PCB Items to the next storage or disposal facility.

(5) For purposes of this paragraph, PCB Voltage Regulators shall be recorded and reported as PCB Transformers.
