
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart G - PCB Spill Cleanup Policy
###### ยง 761.125 Requirements for PCB spill cleanup.
####### Records.

(5)The responsible party shall document the cleanup with records of decontamination. The records must be maintained for a period of 5 years. The records and certification shall consist of the following:

(i) Identification of the source of the spill, e.g., type of equipment.

(ii) Estimated or actual date and time of the spill occurrence.

(iii) The date and time cleanup was completed or terminated (if cleanup was delayed by emergency or adverse weather: the nature and duration of the delay).

(iv) A brief description of the spill location and the nature of the materials contaminated. This information should include whether the spill occurred in an outdoor electrical substation, other restricted access location, or in a nonrestricted access area.

(v) Precleanup sampling data used to establish the spill boundaries if required because of insufficient visible traces and a brief description of the sampling methodology used to establish the spill boundaries.

(vi) A brief description of the solid surfaces cleaned.

(vii) Approximate depth of soil excavation and the amount of soil removed.

(viii) Postcleanup verification sampling data and, if not otherwise apparent from the documentation, a brief description of the sampling methodology and analytical technique used.

(ix) While not required for compliance with this policy, information on the estimated cost of cleanup (by man-hours, dollars, or both) would be useful if maintained in the records.
