
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart J - General Records and Reports
###### ยง 761.180 Records and monitoring.
####### Disposers and commercial storers of PCB waste.

(b)Beginning February 5, 1990, each owner or operator of a facility (including high efficiency boiler operations) used for the commercial storage or disposal of PCBs and PCB Items shall maintain annual records on the disposition of all PCBs and PCB items at the facility and prepare and maintain a written annual document log that includes the information required by paragraphs (b)(2) of this section for PCBs and PCB Items that were handled as PCB waste at the facility. The written annual document log shall be prepared by July 1 for the previous calendar year (January through December). The written annual document log shall be maintained at each facility for at least 3 years after the facility is no longer used for the storage or disposal of PCBs and PCB Items except that, in the case of chemical waste landfills, the annual document log shall be maintained at least 20 years after the chemical waste landfill is no longer used for the disposal of PCBs and PCB Items. The annual records shall be maintained for the same period. The annual records and written annual document log shall be available at the facility for inspection by authorized representatives of the EPA. All records and annual documents required to be prepared and maintained by this section prior to February 5, 1990 shall continue to be maintained at the facility for the same time as the annual records and the annual document log. The annual document for 1989 shall cover the period from January 1, 1989 to February 5, 1990. From the written annual document log the owner or operator of a facility must prepare the annual report containing the information required by paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(vi) of this section for PCBs and PCB Items that were handled as PCB waste at the facility during the previous calendar year (January through December). The annual report must be submitted by July 15 of each year for the preceding calendar year. If the facility ceases commercial PCB storage or disposal operations, the owner or operator of the facility shall provide at least 60 days advance written notice to the Regional Administrator for the region in which the facility is located of the date the facility intends to begin closure. d

(1) The annual records shall include the following:

(i) All signed manifests generated or received at the facility during the calendar year.

(ii) All Certificates of Disposal that have been generated or received by the facility during the calendar year.

(iii) Records of inspections and cleanups performed in accordance with ยง 761.65(c)(5).

(2) The written annual document log shall include the following:

(i) The name, address, and EPA identification number of the storage or disposal facility covered by the annual document log and the calendar year covered by the annual document log.

(ii) For each manifest generated or received by the facility during the calendar year, the unique manifest number and the name and address of the facility that generated the manifest and the following information:
