
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart J - General Records and Reports
###### ยง 761.180 Records and monitoring.
####### PCBs and PCB Items in service or projected for disposal.

(a)Beginning February 5, 1990, each owner or operator of a facility, other than a commercial storer or a disposer of PCB waste, using or storing at any one time at least 45 kilograms (99.4 pounds) of PCBs contained in PCB Container(s), or one or more PCB Transformers, or 50 or more PCB Large High or Low Voltage Capacitors shall develop and maintain at the facility, or a central facility provided they are maintained at that facility, all annual records and the written annual document log of the disposition of PCBs and PCB Items. The written annual document log must be prepared for each facility by July 1 covering the previous calendar year (January through December). The annual document log shall be maintained for at least 3 years after the facility ceases using or storing PCBs and PCB Items in the quantities prescribed in this paragraph. Annual records (manifests and certificates of disposal) shall be maintained for the same period. The annual records and the annual document log shall be available for inspection at the facility where they are maintained by authorized representatives of EPA during normal business hours, and each owner or operator of a facility subject to these requirements shall know the location of these records. All records and annual documents required to be prepared and maintained by this section prior to February 5, 1990 shall continue to be maintained at the facility for the same time as the annual records and the annual document log. The annual document required for 1989 shall cover the period from January 1, 1989 to February 5, 1990.

(1) The annual records shall include the following:

(i) All signed manifests generated by the facility during the calendar year.

(ii) All Certificates of Disposal that have been received by the facility during the calendar year.

(iii) Records of inspections and cleanups performed in accordance with ยง 761.65(c)(5).

(2) The written annual document log shall include the following:

(i) The name, address, and EPA identification number of the facility covered by the annual document log and the calendar year covered by the annual document log.

(ii) The unique manifest number of every manifest generated by the facility during the calendar year, and from each manifest and for unmanifested waste that may be stored at the facility, the following information:
