
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart J - General Records and Reports
###### § 761.185 Certification program and retention of records by importers and persons generating PCBs in excluded manufacturing processes.

(a) In addition to meeting the basic requirements of § 761.1(f) and the definition of excluded manufacturing processes at § 761.3, manufacturers with processes inadvertently generating PCBs and importers of products containing inadvertently generated PCBs must report to EPA any excluded manufacturing process or imports for which the concentration of PCBs in products leaving the manufacturing site or imported is greater than 2 micrograms per gram (2 µg/g, roughly 2 ppm) for any resolvable gas chromatographic peak. Such reports must be filed by October 1, 1984 or, if no processes or imports require reports at the time, within 90 days of having processes or imports for which such reports are required.

(b) Manufacturers required to report by paragraph (a) of this section must transmit a letter notifying EPA of the number, the type, and the location of excluded manufacturing processes in which PCBs are generated when the PCB level in products leaving any manufacturing site is greater than 2 µg/g for any resolvable gas chromatographic peak. Importers required to report by paragraph (a) of this section must transmit a letter notifying EPA of the concentration of PCBs in imported products when the PCB concentration of products being imported is greater than 2 µg/g for any resolvable gas chromatographic peak. Persons must also certify the following:

(1) Their compliance with all applicable requirements of § 761.1(f), including any applicable requirements for air and water releases and process waste disposal.

(2) Whether determinations of compliance are based on actual monitoring of PCB levels or on theoretical assessments.

(3) That such determinations of compliance are being maintained.

(4) If the determination of compliance is based on a theoretical assessment, the letter must also notify EPA of the estimated PCB concentration levels generated and released.

(c) Any person who reports pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) Must have performed either a theoretical analysis or actual monitoring of PCB concentrations.

(2) Must maintain for a period of three years after ceasing process operations or importation, or for seven years, whichever is shorter, records containing the following information:
