
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart J - General Records and Reports
###### ยง 761.185 Certification program and retention of records by importers and persons generating PCBs in excluded manufacturing processes.
####### Actual monitoring.

(ii)(A) The method of analysis.

(B) The results of the analysis, including data from the Quality Assurance Plan.

(C) Description of the sample matrix.

(D) The name of the analyst or analysts.

(E) The date and time of the analysis.

(F) Numbers for the lots from which the samples are taken.

(d) The certification required by paragraph (b) of this section must be signed by a responsible corporate officer. This certification must be maintained by each facility or importer for a period of three years after ceasing process operation or importation, or for seven years, whichever is shorter, and must be made available to EPA upon request. For the purpose of this section, a responsible corporate officer means:

(1) A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation.

(2) The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.

(e) Any person signing a document under paragraph (d) of this section shall also make the following certification:

(f) This report must be submitted to the Document Control Office (DCO) (7407M), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001, ATTN: PCB Notification. This report must be submitted by October 1, 1984 or within 90 days of starting up processes or commencing importation of PCBs.

(g) This certification process must be repeated whenever process conditions are significantly modified to make the previous certification no longer valid.
