
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart J - General Records and Reports
###### § 761.180 Records and monitoring.
####### Incineration facilities.

(c)Each owner or operator of a PCB incinerator facility shall collect and maintain for a period of 5 years from the date of collection the following information, in addition to the information required in paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) When PCBs are being incinerated, the following continuous and short-interval data:

(i) Rate and quantity of PCBs fed to the combustion system as required in § 761.70(a)(3);

(ii) Temperature of the combustion process as required in § 761.70(a)(4); and

(iii) Stack emission product to include O, CO, and COas required in § 761.70(a)(7).

(2) When PCBs are being incinerated, data and records on the monitoring of stack emissions as required in § 761.70(a)(6).

(3) Total weight in kilograms of any solid residues generated by the incineration of PCBs and PCB Items during the calendar year, the total weight in kilograms of any solid residues disposed of by the facility in chemical waste landfills, and the total weight in kilograms of any solid residues remaining on the facility site.

(4) When PCBs and PCB Items are being incinerated, additional periodic data shall be collected and maintained as specified by the Regional Administrator pursuant to § 761.70(d)(4).

(5) Upon any suspension of the operation of any incinerator pursuant to § 761.70(a)(8), the owner or operator of such an incinerator shall prepare a document. The document shall, at a minimum, include the date and time of the suspension and an explanation of the circumstances causing the suspension of operation. The document shall be sent to the appropriate Regional Administrator within 30 days of any such suspension.
