
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart K - PCB Waste Disposal Records and Reports
###### § 761.207 The manifest - general requirements.

(a) A generator who transports, or offers for transport PCB waste for commercial off-site storage or off-site disposal, and commercial storage or disposal facility who offers for transport a rejected load of PCB waste, must prepare a manifest on EPA Form 8700-22, and, if necessary, a continuation sheet, according to the instructions included in the appendix of 40 CFR Part 262. The generator shall specify:

(1) For each bulk load of PCBs, the identity of the PCB waste, the earliest date of removal from service for disposal, and the weight in kilograms of the PCB waste. (Item 14-Special Handling Instructions box)

(2) For each PCB Article Container or PCB Container, the unique identifying number, type of PCB waste (e.g., soil, debris, small capacitors), earliest date of removal from service for disposal, and weight in kilograms of the PCB waste contained. (Item 14-Special Handling Instructions box)

(3) For each PCB Article not in a PCB Container or PCB Article Container, the serial number if available, or other identification if there is no serial number, the date of removal from service for disposal, and weight in kilograms of the PCB waste in each PCB Article. (Item 14-Special Handling Instructions box)

(b) A generator must designate on the manifest one facility which is approved to handle the PCB waste described on the manifest.

(c) A generator may also designate on the manifest one alternate facility which is approved to handle his PCB waste in the event an emergency prevents delivery of the waste to the primary designated facility.

(d) If the transporter is unable to deliver the PCB waste to the designated facility or the alternate facility, the generator must either designate another facility or instruct the transporter to return the PCB waste.

(e) The requirements of this section apply only to PCB wastes as defined in § 761.3. This includes PCB wastes with PCB concentrations below 50 ppm where the PCB concentration below 50 ppm was the result of dilution; these PCB wastes are required under § 761.1(b) to be managed as if they contained PCB concentrations of 50 ppm and above. An example of such a PCB waste is spill cleanup material containing <50 ppm PCBs when the spill involved material containing PCBs at a concentration of ≥50 ppm. However, there is no manifest requirement for material currently below 50 ppm which derives from pre-April 18, 1978, spills of any concentration, pre-July 2, 1979, spills of <500 ppm PCBs, or materials decontaminated in accordance with § 761.79.

(f) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to the transport of PCB wastes on a public or private right-of-way within or along the border of contiguous property under the control of the same person, even if such contiguous property is divided by a public or private right-of-way.
