
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart K - PCB Waste Disposal Records and Reports
###### ยง 761.219 One-year exception reporting.

(a) A disposer of PCB waste shall submit a One-year Exception Report to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the disposal facility is located no later than 45 days from the end of the 1-year storage for disposal date when the following occurs:

(1) The disposal facility receives PCBs or PCB Items on a date more than 9 months from the date the PCBs or PCB Items were removed from service for disposal, as indicated on the manifest or continuation sheet; and

(2) Because of contractual commitments or other factors affecting the facility's disposal capacity, the disposer of PCB waste could not dispose of the affected PCBs or PCB Items within 1 year of the date of removal from service for disposal.

(b) A generator or commercial storer of PCB waste who manifests PCBs or PCB Items to a disposer of PCB waste shall submit a One-year Exception Report to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the generator or commercial storer is located no later than 45 days from the date the following occurs:

(1) The generator or commercial storer transferred the PCBs or PCB Items to the disposer of PCB waste on a date within 9 months from the date of removal from service for disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items, as indicated on the manifest or continuation sheet; and

(2) The generator or commercial storer either has not received within 13 months from the date of removal from service for disposal a Certificate of Disposal confirming the disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items, or the generator or commercial storer receives a Certificate of Disposal confirming disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items on a date more than 1 year after the date of removal from service.

(c) The One-year Exception Report shall include:

(1) A legible copy of any manifest or other written communication relevant to the transfer and disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items.

(2) A cover letter signed by the submitter or an authorized representative explaining:

(i) The date(s) when the PCBs or PCB Items were removed from service for disposal.

(ii) The date(s) when the PCBs or PCB Items were received by the submitter of the report, if applicable.

(iii) The date(s) when the affected PCBs or PCB Items were transferred to a designated disposal facility.

(iv) The identity of the transporters, commercial storers, or disposers known to be involved with the transaction.

(v) The reason, if known, for the delay in bringing about the disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items within 1 year from the date of removal from service for disposal.

(d) PCB/radioactive waste that is exempt from the 1-year storage for disposal time limit pursuant to ยง 761.65(a)(1) is also exempt from the exception reporting requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
