
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart K - PCB Waste Disposal Records and Reports
###### ยง 761.212 Transporter compliance with the manifest.

(a) The transporter must deliver the entire quantity of PCB waste which he has accepted from a generator or a transporter to:

(1) The designated facility listed on the manifest; or

(2) The alternate designated facility, if the PCB waste cannot be delivered to the designated facility because an emergency prevents delivery; or

(3) The next designated transporter.

(b)(1) If the PCB waste cannot be delivered in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section because of an emergency condition other than rejection of the waste by the designated facility, then the transporter must contact the generator for further directions and must revise the manifest according to the generator's instructions.

(2) If PCB waste is rejected by the designated facility while the transporter is on the facility's premises, then the transporter must obtain the following:

(i) For a partial load rejection, a copy of the original manifest that includes the facility's date and signature, and the Manifest Tracking Number of the new manifest that will accompany the shipment, and a description of the partial rejection in the discrepancy block of the original manifest. The transporter must retain a copy of this manifest in accordance with ยง 761.214, and give the remaining copies of the original manifest to the rejecting designated facility. If the transporter is forwarding the rejected part of the shipment to an alternate facility or returning it to the generator, the transporter must obtain a new manifest to accompany the shipment, and the new manifest must include all of the information required in 40 CFR 761.215(e)(1) through (6) or (f)(1) through (6).

(ii) For a full load rejection that will be taken back by the transporter, a copy of the original manifest that includes the rejecting facility's signature and date attesting to the rejection, the description of the rejection in the discrepancy block of the manifest, and the name, address, phone number, and Identification Number for the alternate facility or generator to whom the shipment must be delivered. The transporter must retain a copy of the manifest in accordance with ยง 761.214, and give a copy of the manifest containing this information to the rejecting designated facility. If the original manifest is not used, then the transporter must obtain a new manifest for the shipment and comply with 40 CFR 761.215(e)(1) through (6).

(iii) No provision of this section shall be construed to affect or limit the applicability of any requirement applicable to transporters of PCB waste under regulations issued by the Department of Transportation (DOT) and set forth at 49 CFR Part 171.
