
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart K - PCB Waste Disposal Records and Reports
###### § 761.218 Certificate of disposal.

(a) For each shipment of manifested PCB waste that the owner or operator of a disposal facility accepts by signing the manifest, the owner or operator of the disposal facility shall prepare a Certificate of Disposal for the PCBs and PCB Items disposed of at the facility, which shall include:

(1) The identity of the disposal facility, by name, address, and EPA identification number.

(2) The identity of the PCB waste affected by the Certificate of Disposal including reference to the manifest number for the shipment.

(3) A statement certifying the fact of disposal of the identified PCB waste, including the date(s) of disposal, and identifying the disposal process used.

(4) A certification as defined in § 761.3.

(b) The owner or operator of the disposal facility shall send the Certificate of Disposal to the generator identified on the manifest which accompanied the shipment of PCB waste within 30 days of the date that disposal of each item of PCB waste identified on the manifest was completed unless the generator and the disposer contractually agree to another time frame.

(c) The disposal facility shall keep a copy of each Certificate of Disposal among the records that it retains under § 761.180(b).

(d)(1) Generators of PCB waste shall keep a copy of each Certificate of Disposal that they receive from disposers of PCB waste among the records they retain under § 761.180(a).

(2) Commercial storers of PCB waste shall keep a copy of each Certificate of Disposal that they receive from disposers of PCB waste among the records they retain under § 761.180(b).
