
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart K - PCB Waste Disposal Records and Reports
###### § 761.214 Retention of manifest records.

(a)(1) A generator must keep a copy of each manifest signed in accordance with § 761.210(a) for three years or until he receives a signed copy from the designated facility which received the PCB waste. This signed copy must be retained as a record for at least three years from the date the waste was accepted by the initial transporter. A generator subject to annual document requirements under § 761.180 shall retain copies of each manifest for the period required by § 761.180(a).

(2) A transporter of PCB waste must keep a copy of the manifest signed by the generator, himself, and the next designated transporter or the owner or operator of the designated facility for a period of three years from the date the PCB waste was accepted by the initial transporter.

(b) For shipments delivered to the designated facility by water (bulk shipment), each water (bulk shipment) transporter must retain a copy of the shipping paper containing all the information required in § 761.211(e)(2) for a period of three years from the date the PCB waste was accepted by the initial transporter.

(c) For shipments of PCB waste by rail within the United States:

(1) The initial rail transporter must keep a copy of the manifest and shipping paper with all the information required in § 761.211(f)(2) for a period of three years from the date the PCB waste was accepted by the initial transporter; and

(2) The final rail transporter must keep a copy of the signed manifest (or the shipping paper if signed by the designated facility in lieu of the manifest) for a period of three years from the date the PCB waste was accepted by the initial transporter.

(d) A generator must keep a copy of each Exception Report for a period of at least three years from the due date of the report.

(e) The periods of retention referred to in this Section are extended automatically during the course of any unresolved enforcement action regarding the regulated activity or as requested by the Administrator.
