
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart M - Determining a PCB Concentration for Purposes of Abandonment or Disposal of Natural Gas Pipeline: Selecting Sample Sites, Collecting Surface Samples, and Analyzing Standard PCB Wipe Samples
###### ยง 761.250 Sample site selection for pipeline section abandonment.
####### Selection sample collection sites.

(b)At a minimum, sample all ends of all pipeline sections to be abandoned in place.

(1) If the pipeline section to be abandoned is between the pressure side of one compressor station and the suction side of the next compressor station downstream of the former gas flow, at a minimum, sample all ends of the abandoned pipe.

(2) If the pipeline section to be abandoned is longer than the distance between the pressure side of one compressor station and the suction side of the next compressor station downstream of the former gas flow, divide the pipeline section, for purposes of sampling, into smaller pipeline sections no longer than the distance from the pressure side of one compressor station to the suction side of the next compressor station downstream of the former gas flow. Consider each of the smaller sections to be a separate abandonment and sample each one, at a minimum, at all ends.

(3) Use the following procedure to locate representative sample collection sites in pipeline sections at points other than the suction and pressure side of compressor stations, or the ends of the pipeline section to be abandoned.

(i) First, assign a unique identifying sequential number to each kilometer or fraction of a kilometer length of pipe within the entire pipeline section.

(ii) Use a random number table or a random number generator to select each representative sample collection site from a complete list of the sequential identification numbers.

(iii) Samples may be collected by removing any covering soil, cutting the pipe to gain access to the sampling location, and collecting the surface sample with the pipe in place, rather than completely removing the pipeline sections to collect the surface sample.
