
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart M - Determining a PCB Concentration for Purposes of Abandonment or Disposal of Natural Gas Pipeline: Selecting Sample Sites, Collecting Surface Samples, and Analyzing Standard PCB Wipe Samples
###### ยง 761.247 Sample site selection for pipe segment removal.
####### 2

() Divide the total number of segments by six. Round the resulting quotient off to the nearest whole number. The resulting number is the interval between the segments you will sample. For example, cut a 2.9 mile length of pipeline into 383 segments of approximately 40 feet each. Sample the first (number 1) and last (number 383) segments. To determine which additional five segments to sample, divide the total number of segments, 383, by 6. Round up the resulting number in this example, 63.8, to the next whole number, 64. Add 64 to the number of each preceding pipe segment five separate times to select five additional pipe segments for sampling. In this example, the first pipe segment has the number 1, add 64 to 1 to select segment 65. Next, add 64 to 65 to select segment 129. Continue in this fashion to select all seven segments: 1, 65, 129, 193, 257, 321, and 383.

(iii) When removing a length of pipe having multiple contiguous segments more than 3 miles in total length for purposes of disposal, take samples of each segment that ismile distant from the segment previously sampled. Sample a minimum of seven segments.
