
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart M - Determining a PCB Concentration for Purposes of Abandonment or Disposal of Natural Gas Pipeline: Selecting Sample Sites, Collecting Surface Samples, and Analyzing Standard PCB Wipe Samples
###### § 761.247 Sample site selection for pipe segment removal.
####### Selecting the sampling position-length.

(c)Select the sampling position along the length of the pipe segment, as follows:

(1) Take samples at the end upstream of the former gas flow of each segment removed.

(2) If the pipe segment is cut with a torch or other high temperature heat source, take the sample at least 15 cm (6 inches) inside the cut end of the pipe segment.

(3) If the pipe segment is cut with a saw or other mechanical device, take the sample at least 2 cm (1 inch) inside the end of the pipe segment.

(4) If the sample site location selected in the procedure at paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section is a porous surface (for example, there is significant corrosion so that the wipe material will be shredded), then move the sample site further inside the pipe segment (away from the end of the pipe or pipe segment) until there is no such porous surface. For purposes of this subpart, natural gas pipe with a thin porous corrosion preventive coating is a non-porous surface.

(5) If there is not a non-porous surface accessible by paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, use one of the following three options:

(i) Sample the downstream end of the pipe segment using the same sample site location procedure as for the upstream end.

(ii) Select another pipe segment using the random selection procedure described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(iii) If there is no other pipe segment in the population to be sampled and both ends of a pipe segment have porous surfaces at all possible sample collection sites, then assume that the pipe segment contains ≥50 ppm PCB but <500 ppm PCB.
