
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart N - Cleanup Site Characterization Sampling for PCB Remediation Waste in Accordance with § 761.61(a)(2)
###### § 761.265 Sampling bulk PCB remediation waste and porous surfaces.

(a) Use a grid interval of 3 meters and the procedures in §§ 761.283 and 761.286 to sample bulk PCB remediation waste that is not in a container and porous surfaces.

(b) Use the following procedures to sample bulk PCB remediation waste that is in a single container.

(1) Use a core sampler to collect a minimum of one core sample for the entire depth of the waste at the center of the container. Collect a minimum of 50 cmof waste for analysis.

(2) If more than one core sample is taken, thoroughly mix all samples into a composite sample. Take a subsample of a minimum of 50 cmfrom the mixed composite for analysis.

(c) Use the following procedures to sample bulk PCB remediation waste that is in more than one container.

(1) Segregate the containers by type (for example, a 55-gallon drum and a roll-off container are types of containers).

(2) For fewer than three containers of the same type, sample all containers.

(3) For more than three containers of the same type, list the containers and assign each container an unique sequential number. Use a random number generator or table to select a minimum of 10 percent of the containers from the list, or select three containers, whichever is the larger.

(4) Sample the selected container(s) according to paragraph (b) of this section.
