
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart O - Sampling To Verify Completion of Self-Implementing Cleanup and On-Site Disposal of Bulk PCB Remediation Waste and Porous Surfaces in Accordance With ยง 761.61(a)(6)
###### ยง 761.283 Determination of the number of samples to collect and sample collection locations.
####### Selection of sample locations-small cleanup sites.

(c)When a cleanup site is sufficiently small or irregularly shaped that a square grid with a grid interval of 1.5 meters will not result in a minimum of three sampling points for each type of bulk PCB remediation waste or porous surface at the cleanup site, there are two options.

(1) Use a smaller square grid interval and the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) Use the following coordinate-based random sampling scheme. If the site is recleaned based on the results of cleanup verification conducted in accordance with ยง 761.61(a)(6), follow the procedures in this section for locating sampling points after the recleaning, but select three new pairs of sampling coordinates.

(i) Beginning in the southwest corner (lower left when facing magnetic north) of the area to be sampled, measure in centimeters (or inches) the maximum magnetic north-south dimension of the area to be sampled. Next, beginning in the southwest corner, measure in centimeters (or inches) the maximum magnetic east-west dimension of the area to be sampled. Designate the north-south and east-west dimensions (describing the west and south boundaries, respectively, of the area to be sampled), as the reference axes of a square-based grid system.

(ii) Use a random number table or random number generator to select a pair of coordinates that will locate the sample within the area to be sampled. The first coordinate in the pair is the measurement on the north-south axis. The second coordinate in the pair is the measurement on the east-west axis. Collect the sample at the intersection of an east-west line drawn through the measured spot on the north-south axis, and a north-south line drawn through the measured spot on the east-west axis. If the cleanup site is irregularly shaped and this intersection falls outside the cleanup site, select a new pair of sampling coordinates. Continue to select pairs of sampling coordinates until three are selected for each type of bulk PCB remediation waste or porous surface at the cleanup site.
