
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart O - Sampling To Verify Completion of Self-Implementing Cleanup and On-Site Disposal of Bulk PCB Remediation Waste and Porous Surfaces in Accordance With ยง 761.61(a)(6)
###### ยง 761.283 Determination of the number of samples to collect and sample collection locations.
####### Selection of sample locations-general.

(b)(1)(i) Use a square-based grid system to overlay the entire area to be sampled. Orient the grid axes on a magnetic north-south line centered in the area and an east-west axis perpendicular to the magnetic north-south axis also centered in the area.

(ii) If the site is recleaned based on the results of cleanup verification conducted in accordance with ยง 761.61(a)(6), follow the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section for locating sampling points after the recleaning, but reorient the grid axes established in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section by moving the origin one meter in the direction of magnetic north and one meter in the direction east of magnetic north.

(2) Mark out a series of sampling points 1.5 meters apart oriented to the grid axes. The sampling points shall proceed in every direction to the extent sufficient to result in a two-dimensional grid completely overlaying the sampling area.

(3) Collect a sample at each point if the grid falls in the cleanup area. Analyze all samples either individually or according to the compositing schemes provided in the procedures at ยง 761.289. So long as every sample collected at a grid point is analyzed as either an individual sample or as part of a composite sample, there are no other restrictions on how many samples are analyzed.
