
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart O - Sampling To Verify Completion of Self-Implementing Cleanup and On-Site Disposal of Bulk PCB Remediation Waste and Porous Surfaces in Accordance With ยง 761.61(a)(6)
###### ยง 761.289 Compositing samples.
####### Compositing from samples collected at grid points in accordance with ยง 761.283(b).

(b)(1)There are two kinds of composite sampling procedures depending on the original source of contamination of the site.

(i) The first procedure is for sites with multiple point sources of contamination (such as an old electrical equipment storage area, a scrap yard, or repair shop) or for unknown sources of contamination. Under this compositing scheme, composite a maximum of nine samples for each type of bulk PCB remediation waste or porous surface at the cleanup site. The maximum dimensions of the area enclosing a nine grid point composite is two grid intervals bounded by three collinear grid points (3.0 meters or approximately 10 feet long). Take all samples in the composite at the same depth. Assure that composite sample areas and individually analyzed samples completely overlay the cleanup site.

(ii) The second procedure is for a single point source of contamination, such as discharge into a large containment area (e.g., pit, waste lagoon, or evaporation pond), or a leak onto soil from a single drum or tank. Single point source contamination may be from a one-time or continuous contamination. Composites come from two stages: an initial compositing area centered in the area to be sampled, and subsequent compositing areas forming concentric square zones around the initial compositing area. The center of the initial compositing area and each of the subsequent compositing areas is the origin of the grid axes.
