
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart O - Sampling To Verify Completion of Self-Implementing Cleanup and On-Site Disposal of Bulk PCB Remediation Waste and Porous Surfaces in Accordance With ยง 761.61(a)(6)
###### ยง 761.283 Determination of the number of samples to collect and sample collection locations.
####### Minimum number of samples.

(a)(1) At each separate cleanup site at a PCB remediation waste location, take a minimum of three samples for each type of bulk PCB remediation waste or porous surface at the cleanup site, regardless of the amount of each type of waste that is present. There is no upper limit to the number of samples required or allowed.

(2) This is an example of how to calculate the minimum number of required samples at a PCB remediation waste location. There are three distinct cleanup sites at this example location: a loading dock, a transformer storage lot, and a disposal pit. The minimum number of samples to take appears in parentheses after each type of waste for each cleanup site. The PCB remediation wastes present at the loading dock are concrete (three samples) and clay soil (three samples). The non-liquid PCB remediation wastes present at the transformer storage lot are oily soil (three samples), clay soil (three samples) and gravel (three samples). The PCB remediation wastes present at the disposal pit are sandy soil (three samples), clay soil (three samples), oily soil (three samples), industrial sludge (three samples), and gravel (three samples).
