
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart P - Sampling Non-Porous Surfaces for Measurement-Based Use, Reuse, and On-Site or Off-Site Disposal Under ยง 761.61(a)(6) and Decontamination Under ยง 761.79(b)(3)
###### ยง 761.308 Sample selection by random number generation on any two-dimensional square grid.

(a) Divide the surface area of the non-porous surface into rectangular or square areas having a maximum area of 1 square meter and a minimum dimension of 10 centimeters.

(b) Measure the length and width, in centimeters, of each area created in paragraph (a) of this section. Round off the number of centimeters in the length and the width measurements to the nearest centimeter.

(c) For each 1 square meter area created in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, select two random numbers: one each for the length and width borders measured in paragraph (b) of this section. An eligible random number can be from zero up to the total width, minus 10 centimeters.

(d) Locate the 10 centimeter by 10 centimeter sample.

(1) Orient the 1 square meter surface area so that, when you are facing the area, the length is left to right and the width is top to bottom. The origin, or reference point for measuring selected random numbers of centimeters to the sampling area, is on the lower left corner when facing the surface.

(2) Mark the random number selected for the length distance, in centimeters, from the origin to the right (at the bottom of the area away from the origin).

(3) From the marked length distance on the bottom of the area, move perpendicularly up from the bottom of the area into the area for the distance randomly selected for the width.

(4) Use the point determined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section as the lower left corner of the 10 centimeter by 10 centimeter sample.
