
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart R - Sampling Non-Liquid, Non-Metal PCB Bulk Product Waste for Purposes of Characterization for PCB Disposal in Accordance With § 761.62, and Sampling PCB Remediation Waste Destined for Off-Site Disposal, in Accordance With § 761.61
###### § 761.346 Three levels of sampling.

To select a sample of the waste and prepare it for chemical extraction and analysis, there are three required levels of random sampling.

(a) First, select a single 19-liter (5 gallon) portion from a composite accumulated either contemporaneously with the generation of the waste or by sampling an existing pile of waste. Collection procedures for the first level of sampling from existing piles of waste are in § 761.347. Collection procedures for the first level of sampling from a contemporaneous generation of waste are in § 761.348. Compositing requirements and requirements for the subsampling of composite samples to result in a single 19-liter sample are in § 761.350. Send the 19-liter sample to the laboratory for the second and third levels of sampling, including particle size reduction for leach testing and drying as required by § 761.1(b)(4).

(b) Second, at the laboratory, select one quarter of the 19-liter sample. Procedures the laboratory must use for this second level of sample selection appear in § 761.353.

(c) Third, select a 100 gram subsample from the second level subsample. Procedures the laboratory must use for this third level of sample selection appear in § 761.355.
