
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart R - Sampling Non-Liquid, Non-Metal PCB Bulk Product Waste for Purposes of Characterization for PCB Disposal in Accordance With ยง 761.62, and Sampling PCB Remediation Waste Destined for Off-Site Disposal, in Accordance With ยง 761.61
###### ยง 761.348 Contemporaneous sampling.

Contemporaneous sampling is possible when there is active generation of waste and it is possible to sample the waste stream as it is generated. Collect eight 19-liter samples as follows.

(a) Collect each sample by filling a 19-liter (5 gallon) container at a location where the PCB bulk product waste is released from the waste generator onto a pile or into a receptacle container before the waste reaches the pile or receptacle container.

(b) Determine a sample collection start time using a random number generator or a random number table to select a number between 1 and 60. Collect the first sample at the randomly selected time in minutes after start up of the waste output, or if the waste is currently being generated, after the random time is selected. For example, if the randomly selected time is 35, begin collection 35 minutes after the start up of waste generation. Similarly, if waste output is ongoing and the random start determination occurred at 8:35 a.m., collect the first sample at 9:10 a.m. (35 minutes after the random start determination).

(c) Collect seven more samples, one every 60 minutes after the initial sample is collected. If the waste output process stops, stop the 60-minute interval time clock. When the process restarts, restart the 60-minute interval time clock and complete the incomplete 60-minute interval.

(d) Composite the eight 19-liter samples and subsample in accordance with ยง 761.350.
