
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart T - Comparison Study for Validating a New Performance-Based Decontamination Solvent Under § 761.79(d)(4)
###### § 761.392 Preparing validation study samples.

(a)(1) To validate a procedure to decontaminate a surface contaminated with a spill from liquid of a known concentration, contaminate (spike) the surface to be used in the validation study as follows:

(i) Use a spiking solution made of PCBs mixed with a solvent to contaminate clean surfaces. Clean surfaces are surfaces having PCB surface concentrations <1 µg/100 cmbefore intentionally contaminating the surface.

(ii) Prior to contaminating a surface for the validation study, mark the surface sampling area to assure that it is completely covered with the spiking solution.

(iii) Deliver the spiking solution onto the surface, covering all of the sampling area. Contain any liquids which spill or flow off the surface. Allow the spiking solution to drip drain off into a container and then evaporate the spiking solution off the contaminated surface prior to beginning the validation study. Contaminate a minimum of eight surfaces for a complete validation study.

(iv) As a quality control step, test at least one contaminated surface to determine the PCB concentration to verify that there are measurable surface levels of PCBs resulting from the contamination before soaking the surface in the decontamination solvent. The surface levels of PCBs on the contaminated surfaces must be ≥20 µg/100 cm.

(2) To validate a procedure to decontaminate a specified surface concentrations of PCBs as measured by a standard wipe sample, contaminate a minimum of 10 surfaces. Contaminate all the surfaces identically following the procedures in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and measure the PCB surface concentrations of at least three of the surfaces using a standard wipe test to establish a surface concentration to be included in the standard operating procedure. The surface levels of PCBs on the contaminated surfaces must be ≥20 µg/100 cm.

(b) [Reserved]
