
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 761 - POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCBs) MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION IN COMMERCE, AND USE PROHIBITIONS
##### Subpart T - Comparison Study for Validating a New Performance-Based Decontamination Solvent Under § 761.79(d)(4)
###### § 761.395 A validation study.

(a) Decontaminate the following prepared sample surfaces using the selected testing parameters and experimental conditions. Take a standard wipe sample of the decontaminated surface.

(1) At least one uncontaminated surface. The surface levels of PCBs on the uncontaminated surface must be <1 µg/100 cm.

(2) At least seven contaminated surfaces.

(b)(1) Use SW-846, Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste methods for sample extraction and chemical analysis as follows: Use Method 3500B/3540C or Method 3500B/3550B for the extraction and cleanup of the extract and Method 8082 for the chemical analysis, or methods validated under subpart Q of this part.

(2) Report all validation study surface sample concentrations on the basis of micrograms of PCBs per 100 cmof surface sampled.

(c) Following completion of the validation study, measurements from the contaminated surfaces must have an arithmetic mean of &#x2264;10 µg/100 cm. If the arithmetic mean is >10 µg/100 cm, then the validation study failed and the solvent may not be used for decontamination under § 761.79(d)(4) according to the parameters tested.
