
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### ยง 763.80 Scope and purpose.

(a) This rule requires local education agencies to identify friable and nonfriable asbestos-containing material (ACM) in public and private elementary and secondary schools by visually inspecting school buildings for such materials, sampling such materials if they are not assumed to be ACM, and having samples analyzed by appropriate techniques referred to in this rule. The rule requires local education agencies to submit management plans to the Governor of their State by October 12, 1988, begin to implement the plans by July 9, 1989, and complete implementation of the plans in a timely fashion. In addition, local education agencies are required to use persons who have been accredited to conduct inspections, reinspections, develop management plans, or perform response actions. The rule also includes recordkeeping requirements. Local education agencies may contractually delegate their duties under this rule, but they remain responsible for the proper performance of those duties. Local education agencies are encouraged to consult with EPA Regional Asbestos Coordinators, or if applicable, a State's lead agency designated by the State Governor, for assistance in complying with this rule.

(b) Local education agencies must provide for the transportation and disposal of asbestos in accordance with EPA's "Asbestos Waste Management Guidance." For convenience, applicable sections of this guidance are reprinted as appendix D of this subpart. There are regulations in place, however, that affect transportation and disposal of asbestos waste generated by this rule. The transportation of asbestos waste is covered by the Department of Transportation (49 CFR part 173, subpart J) and disposal is covered by the National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) (40 CFR part 61, subpart M).
