
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### § 763.85 Inspection and reinspections.
####### Inspection.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, before October 12, 1988, local education agencies shall inspect each school building that they lease, own, or otherwise use as a school building to identify all locations of friable and nonfriable ACBM.

(2) Any building leased or acquired on or after October 12, 1988, that is to be used as a school building shall be inspected as described under paragraphs (a) (3) and (4) of this section prior to use as a school building. In the event that emergency use of an uninspected building as a school building is necessitated, such buildings shall be inspected within 30 days after commencement of such use.

(3) Each inspection shall be made by an accredited inspector.

(4) For each area of a school building, except as excluded under § 763.99, each person performing an inspection shall:

(i) Visually inspect the area to identify the locations of all suspected ACBM.

(ii) Touch all suspected ACBM to determine whether they are friable.

(iii) Identify all homogeneous areas of friable suspected ACBM and all homogeneous areas of nonfriable suspected ACBM.

(iv) Assume that some or all of the homogeneous areas are ACM, and, for each homogeneous area that is not assumed to be ACM, collect and submit for analysis bulk samples under §§ 763.86 and 763.87.

(v) Assess, under § 763.88, friable material in areas where samples are collected, friable material in areas that are assumed to be ACBM, and friable ACBM identified during a previous inspection.

(vi) Record the following and submit to the person designated under § 763.84 a copy of such record for inclusion in the management plan within 30 days of the inspection:

(A) An inspection report with the date of the inspection signed by each accredited person making the inspection, State of accreditation, and if applicable, his or her accreditation number.

(B) An inventory of the locations of the homogeneous areas where samples are collected, exact location where each bulk sample is collected, dates that samples are collected, homogeneous areas where friable suspected ACBM is assumed to be ACM, and homogeneous areas where nonfriable suspected ACBM is assumed to be ACM.

(C) A description of the manner used to determine sampling locations, the name and signature of each accredited inspector who collected the samples, State of accreditation, and, if applicable, his or her accreditation number.

(D) A list of whether the homogeneous areas identified under paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(B) of this section, are surfacing material, thermal system insulation, or miscellaneous material.

(E) Assessments made of friable material, the name and signature of each accredited inspector making the assessment, State of accreditation, and if applicable, his or her accreditation number.
