
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### § 763.85 Inspection and reinspections.
####### Reinspection.

(b)(1) At least once every 3 years after a management plan is in effect, each local education agency shall conduct a reinspection of all friable and nonfriable known or assumed ACBM in each school building that they lease, own, or otherwise use as a school building.

(2) Each inspection shall be made by an accredited inspector.

(3) For each area of a school building, each person performing a reinspection shall:

(i) Visually reinspect, and reassess, under § 763.88, the condition of all friable known or assumed ACBM.

(ii) Visually inspect material that was previously considered nonfriable ACBM and touch the material to determine whether it has become friable since the last inspection or reinspection.

(iii) Identify any homogeneous areas with material that has become friable since the last inspection or reinspection.

(iv) For each homogeneous area of newly friable material that is already assumed to be ACBM, bulk samples may be collected and submitted for analysis in accordance with §§ 763.86 and 763.87.

(v) Assess, under § 763.88, the condition of the newly friable material in areas where samples are collected, and newly friable materials in areas that are assumed to be ACBM.

(vi) Reassess, under § 763.88, the condition of friable known or assumed ACBM previously identified.

(vii) Record the following and submit to the person designated under § 763.84 a copy of such record for inclusion in the management plan within 30 days of the reinspection:

(A) The date of the reinspection, the name and signature of the person making the reinspection, State of accreditation, and if applicable, his or her accreditation number, and any changes in the condition of known or assumed ACBM.

(B) The exact locations where samples are collected during the reinspection, a description of the manner used to determine sampling locations, the name and signature of each accredited inspector who collected the samples, State of accreditation, and, if applicable, his or her accreditation number.

(C) Any assessments or reassessments made of friable material, the name and signature of the accredited inspector making the assessments, State of accreditation, and if applicable, his or her accreditation number.
