
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### § 763.90 Response actions.

(a) The local education agency shall select and implement in a timely manner the appropriate response actions in this section consistent with the assessment conducted in § 763.88. The response actions selected shall be sufficient to protect human health and the environment. The local education agency may then select, from the response actions which protect human health and the environment, that action which is the least burdensome method. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit removal of ACBM from a school building at any time, should removal be the preferred response action of the local education agency.

(b) If damaged or significantly damaged thermal system insulation ACM is present in a building, the local education agency shall:

(1) At least repair the damaged area.

(2) Remove the damaged material if it is not feasible, due to technological factors, to repair the damage.

(3) Maintain all thermal system insulation ACM and its covering in an intact state and undamaged condition.

(c)(1) If damaged friable surfacing ACM or damaged friable miscellaneous ACM is present in a building, the local education agency shall select from among the following response actions: encapsulation, enclosure, removal, or repair of the damaged material.

(2) In selecting the response action from among those which meet the definitional standards in § 763.83, the local education agency shall determine which of these response actions protects human health and the environment. For purposes of determining which of these response actions are the least burdensome, the local education agency may then consider local circumstances, including occupancy and use patterns within the school building, and its economic concerns, including short- and long-term costs.

(d) If significantly damaged friable surfacing ACM or significantly damaged friable miscellaneous ACM is present in a building the local education agency shall:

(1) Immediately isolate the functional space and restrict access, unless isolation is not necessary to protect human health and the environment.

(2) Remove the material in the functional space or, depending upon whether enclosure or encapsulation would be sufficient to protect human health and the environment, enclose or encapsulate.

(e) If any friable surfacing ACM, thermal system insulation ACM, or friable miscellaneous ACM that has potential for damage is present in a building, the local education agency shall at least implement an operations and maintenance (O&M) program, as described under § 763.91.

(f) If any friable surfacing ACM, thermal system insulation ACM, or friable miscellaneous ACM that has potential for significant damage is present in a building, the local education agency shall:

(1) Implement an O&M program, as described under § 763.91.

(2) Institute preventive measures appropriate to eliminate the reasonable likelihood that the ACM or its covering will become significantly damaged, deteriorated, or delaminated.

(3) Remove the material as soon as possible if appropriate preventive measures cannot be effectively implemented, or unless other response actions are determined to protect human health and the environment. Immediately isolate the area and restrict access if necessary to avoid an imminent and substantial endangerment to human health or the environment.

(g) Response actions including removal, encapsulation, enclosure, or repair, other than small-scale, short-duration repairs, shall be designed and conducted by persons accredited to design and conduct response actions.

(h) The requirements of this subpart E in no way supersede the worker protection and work practice requirements under 29 CFR 1926.58 (Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) asbestos worker protection standards for construction), 40 CFR part 763, subpart G (EPA asbestos worker protection standards for public employees), and 40 CFR part 61, subpart M (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants-Asbestos).

(i) Completion of response actions. (1) At the conclusion of any action to remove, encapsulate, or enclose ACBM or material assumed to be ACBM, a person designated by the local education agency shall visually inspect each functional space where such action was conducted to determine whether the action has been properly completed.

(2)(i) A person designated by the local education agency shall collect air samples using aggressive sampling as described in appendix A to this subpart E to monitor air for clearance after each removal, encapsulation, and enclosure project involving ACBM, except for projects that are of small-scale, short-duration.

(ii) Local education agencies shall have air samples collected under this section analyzed for asbestos using laboratories accredited by the National Bureau of Standards to conduct such analysis using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) or, under circumstances permitted in this section, laboratories enrolled in the American Industrial Hygiene Association Proficiency Analytical Testing Program for phase contrast microscopy (PCM).

(iii) Until the National Bureau of Standards TEM laboratory accreditation program is operational, local educational agencies shall use laboratories that use the protocol described in appendix A to subpart E of this part.

(3) Except as provided in paragraphs (i)(4), and (i)(5), of this section, an action to remove, encapsulate, or enclose ACBM shall be considered complete when the average concentration of asbestos of five air samples collected within the affected functional space and analyzed by the TEM method in appendix A of this subpart E, is not statistically significantly different, as determined by the Z-test calculation found in appendix A of this subpart E, from the average asbestos concentration of five air samples collected at the same time outside the affected functional space and analyzed in the same manner, and the average asbestos concentration of the three field blanks described in appendix A of this subpart E is below the filter background level, as defined in appendix A of this subpart E, of 70 structures per square millimeter (70 s/mm).

(4) An action may also be considered complete if the volume of air drawn for each of the five samples collected within the affected functional space is equal to or greater than 1,199 L of air for a 25 mm filter or equal to or greater than 2,799 L of air for a 37 mm filter, and the average concentration of asbestos as analyzed by the TEM method in appendix A of this subpart E, for the five air samples does not exceed the filter background level, as defined in appendix A, of 70 structures per square millimeter (70 s/mm). If the average concentration of asbestos of the five air samples within the affected functional space exceeds 70 s/mm, or if the volume of air in each of the samples is less than 1,199 L of air for a 25 mm filter or less than 2,799 L of air for a 37 mm filter, the action shall be considered complete only when the requirements of paragraph (i)(3) or (i)(5), of this section are met.
