
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### ยง 763.97 Compliance and enforcement.
####### Compliance with Title I of the Act.

(b)(1) Section 15(1)(D) of Title I of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614) makes it unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any requirement of Title II or any rule promulgated or order issued under Title II. Therefore, any person who violates any requirement of this subpart is in violation of section 15 of Title I of the Act.

(2) Section 15(3) of Title I of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614) makes it unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to establish or maintain records, submit reports, notices or other information, or permit access to or copying of records, as required by this Act or a rule thereunder.

(3) Section 15(4) (15 U.S.C. 2614) of Title I of the Act makes it unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to permit entry or inspection as required by section 11 of Title I of the Act.

(4) Section 16(a) of Title I of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2615) provides that any person who violates any provision of section 15 of Title I of the Act shall be liable to the United States for a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $25,000 for each such violation. Each day such a violation continues shall, for purposes of this paragraph, constitute a separate violation of section 15. A local education agency is not liable for any civil penalty under Title I of the Act for failing or refusing to comply with any rule promulgated or order issued under Title II of the Act.
