
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### ยง 763.92 Training and periodic surveillance.
####### Training.

(a)(1) The local education agency shall ensure, prior to the implementation of the O&M provisions of the management plan, that all members of its maintenance and custodial staff (custodians, electricians, heating/air conditioning engineers, plumbers, etc.) who may work in a building that contains ACBM receive awareness training of at least 2 hours, whether or not they are required to work with ACBM. New custodial and maintenance employees shall be trained within 60 days after commencement of employment. Training shall include, but not be limited to:

(i) Information regarding asbestos and its various uses and forms.

(ii) Information on the health effects associated with asbestos exposure.

(iii) Locations of ACBM identified throughout each school building in which they work.

(iv) Recognition of damage, deterioration, and delamination of ACBM.

(v) Name and telephone number of the person designated to carry out general local education agency responsibilities under ยง 763.84 and the availability and location of the management plan.

(2) The local education agency shall ensure that all members of its maintenance and custodial staff who conduct any activities that will result in the disturbance of ACBM shall receive training described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and 14 hours of additional training. Additional training shall include, but not be limited to:

(i) Descriptions of the proper methods of handling ACBM.
