
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### ยง 763.98 Waiver; delegation to State.
####### Request.

(b)Each request by a Governor to waive any requirement of this subpart E shall be sent with three complete copies of the request to the Regional Administrator for the EPA Region in which the State is located and shall include:

(1) A copy of the State provisions or proposed provisions relating to its program of asbestos inspection and management in schools for which the request is made.

(2)(i) The name of the State agency that is or will be responsible for administering and enforcing the requirements for which a waiver is requested, the names and job titles of responsible officials in that agency, and phone numbers where the officials can be contacted.

(ii) In the event that more than one agency is or will be responsible for administering and enforcing the requirements for which a waiver is requested, a description of the functions to be performed by each agency, how the program will be coordinated by the lead agency to ensure consistency and effective administration in the asbestos inspection and management program within the State, the names and job titles of responsible officials in the agencies, and phone numbers where the officials can be contacted. The lead agency will serve as the central contact point for the EPA.

(3) Detailed reasons, supporting papers, and the rationale for concluding that the state's asbestos inspection and management program provisions for which the request is made are at least as stringent as the requirements of subpart E of this part, and that, if the state chooses to receive electronic documents, the state program includes, at a minimum, the requirements of 40 CFR part 3-(Electronic reporting).

(4) A discussion of any special situations, problems, and needs pertaining to the waiver request accompanied by an explanation of how the State intends to handle them.

(5) A statement of the resources that the State intends to devote to the administration and enforcement of the provisions relating to the waiver request.

(6) Copies of any specific or enabling State laws (enacted and pending enactment) and regulations (promulgated and pending promulgation) relating to the request, including provisions for assessing criminal and/or civil penalties.

(7) Assurance from the Governor, the Attorney General, or the legal counsel of the lead agency that the lead agency or other cooperating agencies have the legal authority necessary to carry out the requirements relating to the request.
