
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### § 763.99 Exclusions.

(a) A local education agency shall not be required to perform an inspection under § 763.85(a) in any sampling area as defined in 40 CFR 763.103 or homogeneous area of a school building where:

(1) An accredited inspector has determined that, based on sampling records, friable ACBM was identified in that homogeneous or sampling area during an inspection conducted before December 14, 1987. The inspector shall sign and date a statement to that effect with his or her State of accreditation and if applicable, accreditation number and, within 30 days after such determination, submit a copy of the statement to the person designated under § 763.84 for inclusion in the management plan. However, an accredited inspector shall assess the friable ACBM under § 763.88.

(2) An accredited inspector has determined that, based on sampling records, nonfriable ACBM was identified in that homogeneous or sampling area during an inspection conducted before December 14, 1987. The inspector shall sign and date a statement to that effect with his or her State of accreditation and if applicable, accreditation number and, within 30 days after such determination, submit a copy of the statement to the person designated under § 763.84 for inclusion in the management plan. However, an accredited inspector shall identify whether material that was nonfriable has become friable since that previous inspection and shall assess the newly-friable ACBM under § 763.88.

(3) Based on sampling records and inspection records, an accredited inspector has determined that no ACBM is present in the homogeneous or sampling area and the records show that the area was sampled, before December 14, 1987 in substantial compliance with § 763.85(a), which for purposes of this section means in a random manner and with a sufficient number of samples to reasonably ensure that the area is not ACBM.

(i) The accredited inspector shall sign and date a statement, with his or her State of accreditation and if applicable, accreditation number that the homogeneous or sampling area determined not to be ACBM was sampled in substantial compliance with § 763.85(a).

(ii) Within 30 days after the inspector's determination, the local education agency shall submit a copy of the inspector's statement to the EPA Regional Office and shall include the statement in the management plan for that school.

(4) The lead agency responsible for asbestos inspection in a State that has been granted a waiver from § 763.85(a) has determined that, based on sampling records and inspection records, no ACBM is present in the homogeneous or sampling area and the records show that the area was sampled before December 14, 1987, in substantial compliance with § 763.85(a). Such determination shall be included in the management plan for that school.

(5) An accredited inspector has determined that, based on records of an inspection conducted before December 14, 1987, suspected ACBM identified in that homogeneous or sampling area is assumed to be ACM. The inspector shall sign and date a statement to that effect, with his or her State of accreditation and if applicable, accreditation number and, within 30 days of such determination, submit a copy of the statement to the person designated under § 763.84 for inclusion in the management plan. However, an accredited inspector shall identify whether material that was nonfriable suspected ACBM assumed to be ACM has become friable since the previous inspection and shall assess the newly friable material and previously identified friable suspected ACBM assumed to be ACM under § 763.88.

(6) Based on inspection records and contractor and clearance records, an accredited inspector has determined that no ACBM is present in the homogeneous or sampling area where asbestos removal operations have been conducted before December 14, 1987, and shall sign and date a statement to that effect and include his or her State of accreditation and, if applicable, accreditation number. The local education agency shall submit a copy of the statement to the EPA Regional Office and shall include the statement in the management plan for that school.

(7) An architect or project engineer responsible for the construction of a new school building built after October 12, 1988, or an accredited inspector signs a statement that no ACBM was specified as a building material in any construction document for the building, or, to the best of his or her knowledge, no ACBM was used as a building material in the building. The local education agency shall submit a copy of the signed statement of the architect, project engineer, or accredited inspector to the EPA Regional Office and shall include the statement in the management plan for that school.

(b) The exclusion, under paragraphs (a) (1) through (4) of this section, from conducting the inspection under § 763.85(a) shall apply only to homogeneous or sampling areas of a school building that were inspected and sampled before October 17, 1987. The local education agency shall conduct an inspection under § 763.85(a) of all areas inspected before October 17, 1987, that were not sampled or were not assumed to be ACM.

(c) If ACBM is subsequently found in a homogeneous or sampling area of a local education agency that had been identified as receiving an exclusion by an accredited inspector under paragraphs (a) (3), (4), (5) of this section, or an architect, project engineer or accredited inspector under paragraph (a)(7) of this section, the local education agency shall have 180 days following the date of identification of ACBM to comply with this subpart E.
