
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### Determination of Camera Constant and ED Pattern Analysis.

2.The camera length of the TEM in ED operating mode must be calibrated before ED patterns on unknown samples are observed. This can be achieved by using a carbon-coated grid on which a thin film of gold has been sputtered or evaporated. A thin film of gold is evaporated on the specimen TEM grid to obtain zone-axis ED patterns superimposed with a ring pattern from the polycrystalline gold film. In practice, it is desirable to optimize the thickness of the gold film so that only one or two sharp rings are obtained on the superimposed ED pattern. Thicker gold film would normally give multiple gold rings, but it will tend to mask weaker diffraction spots from the unknown fibrous particulate. Since the unknown d-spacings of most interest in asbestos analysis are those which lie closest to the transmitted beam, multiple gold rings are unnecessary on zone-axis ED patterns. An average camera constant using multiple gold rings can be determined. The camera constant is one-half the diameter of the rings times the interplanar spacing of the ring being measured.
