
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### TEM

24.-Transmission electron microscope.

1. The sampling agency must have written quality control procedures and documents which verify compliance.

2. Sampling operations must be performed by qualified individuals completely independent of the abatement contractor to avoid possible conflict of interest (References 1, 2, 3, and 5 of Unit II.J.).

3. Sampling for airborne asbestos following an abatement action must use commercially available cassettes.

4. Prescreen the loaded cassette collection filters to assure that they do not contain concentrations of asbestos which may interfere with the analysis of the sample. A filter blank average of less than 18 s/mmin an area of 0.057 mm(nominally 10 200-mesh grid openings) and a single preparation with a maximum of 53 s/mmfor that same area is acceptable for this method.

5. Use sample collection filters which are either polycarbonate having a pore size less than or equal to 0.4 µm or mixed cellulose ester having a pore size less than or equal to 0.45 µm.

6. Place these filters in series with a 5.0 µm backup filter (to serve as a diffuser) and a support pad. See the following Figure 1:

7. Reloading of used cassettes is not permitted.

8. Orient the cassette downward at approximately 45 degrees from the horizontal.

9. Maintain a log of all pertinent sampling information.

10. Calibrate sampling pumps and their flow indicators over the range of their intended use with a recognized standard. Assemble the sampling system with a representative filter (not the filter which will be used in sampling) before and after the sampling operation.

11. Record all calibration information.

12. Ensure that the mechanical vibrations from the pump will be minimized to prevent transferral of vibration to the cassette.

13. Ensure that a continuous smooth flow of negative pressure is delivered by the pump by damping out any pump action fluctuations if necessary.

14. The final plastic barrier around the abatement area remains in place for the sampling period.

15. After the area has passed a thorough visual inspection, use aggressive sampling conditions to dislodge any remaining dust. (See suggested protocol in Unit III.B.7.d.)

16. Select an appropriate flow rate equal to or greater than 1 liter per minute (L/min) or less than 10 L/min for 25 mm cassettes. Larger filters may be operated at proportionally higher flow rates.

17. A minimum of 13 samples are to be collected for each testing site consisting of the following:

a. A minimum of five samples per abatement area.

b. A minimum of five samples per ambient area positioned at locations representative of the air entering the abatement site.

c. Two field blanks are to be taken by removing the cap for not more than 30 seconds and replacing it at the time of sampling before sampling is initiated at the following places:

i. Near the entrance to each abatement area.

ii. At one of the ambient sites. (DO NOT leave the field blanks open during the sampling period.)

d. A sealed blank is to be carried with each sample set. This representative cassette is not to be opened in the field.

18. Perform a leak check of the sampling system at each indoor and outdoor sampling site by activating the pump with the closed sampling cassette in line. Any flow indicates a leak which must be eliminated before initiating the sampling operation.

19. The following Table I specifies volume ranges to be used:

20. Ensure that the sampler is turned upright before interrupting the pump flow.

21. Check that all samples are clearly labeled and that all pertinent information has been enclosed before transfer of the samples to the laboratory.

22. Ensure that the samples are stored in a secure and representative location.

23. Do not change containers if portions of these filters are taken for other purposes.

24. A summary of Sample Data Quality Objectives is shown in the following Table II:

Ship bulk samples to the analytical laboratory in a separate container from air samples.

1. Designate one individual as sample coordinator at the laboratory. While that individual will normally be available to receive samples, the coordinator may train and supervise others in receiving procedures for those times when he/she is not available.

2. Bulk samples and air samples delivered to the analytical laboratory in the same container shall be rejected.

1. All sample preparation and analysis shall be performed by a laboratory independent of the abatement contractor.

2. Wet-wipe the exterior of the cassettes to minimize contamination possibilities before taking them into the clean room facility.

3. Perform sample preparation in a well-equipped clean facility.

4. Preparation areas for air samples must not only be separated from preparation areas for bulk samples, but they must be prepared in separate rooms.

5. Direct preparation techniques are required. The object is to produce an intact film containing the particulates of the filter surface which is sufficiently clear for TEM analysis.

a. TEM Grid Opening Area measurement must be done as follows:

i. The filter portion being used for sample preparation must have the surface collapsed using an acetone vapor technique.

ii. Measure 20 grid openings on each of 20 random 200-mesh copper grids by placing a grid on a glass and examining it under the PCM. Use a calibrated graticule to measure the average field diameters. From the data, calculate the field area for an average grid opening.

iii. Measurements can also be made on the TEM at a properly calibrated low magnification or on an optical microscope at a magnification of approximately 400X by using an eyepiece fitted with a scale that has been calibrated against a stage micrometer. Optical microscopy utilizing manual or automated procedures may be used providing instrument calibration can be verified.

b. TEM specimen preparation from polycarbonate (PC) filters. Procedures as described in Unit III.G. or other equivalent methods may be used.

c. TEM specimen preparation from mixed cellulose ester (MCE) filters.

i. Filter portion being used for sample preparation must have the surface collapsed using an acetone vapor technique or the Burdette procedure (Ref. 7 of Unit II.J.)

ii. Plasma etching of the collapsed filter is required. The microscope slide to which the collapsed filter pieces are attached is placed in a plasma asher. Because plasma ashers vary greatly in their performance, both from unit to unit and between different positions in the asher chamber, it is difficult to specify the conditions that should be used. Insufficient etching will result in a failure to expose embedded filters, and too much etching may result in loss of particulate from the surface. As an interim measure, it is recommended that the time for ashing of a known weight of a collapsed filter be established and that the etching rate be calculated in terms of micrometers per second. The actual etching time used for the particulate asher and operating conditions will then be set such that a 1-2 µm (10 percent) layer of collapsed surface will be removed.

iii. Procedures as described in Unit III. or other equivalent methods may be used to prepare samples.

1. An 80-120 kV TEM capable of performing electron diffraction with a fluorescent screen inscribed with calibrated gradations is required. If the TEM is equipped with EDXA it must either have a STEM attachment or be capable of producing a spot less than 250 nm in diameter at crossover. The microscope shall be calibrated routinely for magnification and camera constant.
