
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### Matrix.

iv.Fiber or fibers with one end free and the other end embedded in or hidden by a particulate. The exposed fiber must meet the fiber definition.

b. Separate categories will be maintained for fibers less than 5 µm and for fibers equal to or greater than 5 µm in length.

c. Record NSD when no structures are detected in the field.

d. Visual identification of electron diffraction (ED) patterns is required for each asbestos structure counted which would cause the analysis to exceed the 70 s/mmconcentration. (Generally this means the first four fibers identified as asbestos must exhibit an identifiable diffraction pattern for chrysotile or amphibole.)

e. The micrograph number of the recorded diffraction patterns must be reported to the client and maintained in the laboratory's quality assurance records. In the event that examination of the pattern by a qualified individual indicates that the pattern has been misidentified visually, the client shall be contacted.

f. Energy Dispersive X-ray Analysis (EDXA) is required of all amphiboles which would cause the analysis results to exceed the 70 s/mmconcentration. (Generally speaking, the first 4 amphiboles would require EDXA.)

g. If the number of fibers in the nonasbestos class would cause the analysis to exceed the 70 s/mmconcentration, the fact that they are not asbestos must be confirmed by EDXA or measurement of a zone axis diffraction pattern.

h. Fibers classified as chrysotile must be identified by diffraction or X-ray analysis and recorded on a count sheet. X-ray analysis alone can be used only after 70 s/mmhave been exceeded for a particular sample.

i. Fibers classified as amphiboles must be identified by X-ray analysis and electron diffraction and recorded on the count sheet. (X-ray analysis alone can be used only after 70 s/mmhave been exceeded for a particular sample.)

j. If a diffraction pattern was recorded on film, record the micrograph number on the count sheet.

k. If an electron diffraction was attempted but no pattern was observed, record N on the count sheet.

l. If an EDXA spectrum was attempted but not observed, record N on the count sheet.

m. If an X-ray analysis spectrum is stored, record the file and disk number on the count sheet.

10. Classification Rules.
