
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### Matrix.

d.Fiber or fibers with one end free and the other end embedded in or hidden by a particulate. The exposed fiber must meet the fiber definition.

11. After finishing with a grid, remove it from the microscope, and replace it in the appropriate grid holder. Sample grids must be stored for a minimum of 1 year from the date of the analysis; the sample cassette must be retained for a minimum of 30 days by the laboratory or returned at the client's request.

1. Under the present sampling requirements a minimum of 13 samples is to be collected for the clearance testing of an abatement site. These include five abatement area samples, five ambient samples, two field blanks, and one sealed blank.

2. Carry out visual inspection of work site prior to air monitoring.

3. Collect a minimum of 5 air samples inside the work site and 5 samples outside the work site. The indoor and outdoor samples shall be taken during the same time period.

4. Remaining steps in the analytical sequence are contained in Unit IV of this Appendix.

1. The following information must be reported to the client for each sample analyzed:

a. Concentration in structures per square millimeter and structures per cubic centimeter.

b. Analytical sensitivity used for the analysis.

c. Number of asbestos structures.

d. Area analyzed.

e. Volume of air sampled (which must be initially supplied to lab by client).

f. Copy of the count sheet must be included with the report.

g. Signature of laboratory official to indicate that the laboratory met specifications of the method.

h. Report form must contain official laboratory identification (e.g., letterhead).

i. Type of asbestos.

Monitoring the environment for airborne asbestos requires the use of sensitive sampling and analysis procedures. Because the test is sensitive, it may be influenced by a variety of factors. These include the supplies used in the sampling operation, the performance of the sampling, the preparation of the grid from the filter and the actual examination of this grid in the microscope. Each of these unit operations must produce a product of defined quality if the analytical result is to be a reliable and meaningful test result. Accordingly, a series of control checks and reference standards are to be performed along with the sample analysis as indicators that the materials used are adequate and the operations are within acceptable limits. In this way, the quality of the data is defined and the results are of known value. These checks and tests also provide timely and specific warning of any problems which might develop within the sampling and analysis operations. A description of these quality control/quality assurance procedures is summarized in the following Table III:

1. When the samples arrive at the laboratory, check the samples and documentation for completeness and requirements before initiating the analysis.

2. Check all laboratory reagents and supplies for acceptable asbestos background levels.

3. Conduct all sample preparation in a clean room environment monitored by laboratory blanks. Testing with blanks must also be done after cleaning or servicing the room.

4. Prepare multiple grids of each sample.

5. Provide laboratory blanks with each sample batch. Maintain a cumulative average of these results. If there are more than 53 fibers/mmper 10 200-mesh grid openings, the system must be checked for possible sources of contamination.

6. Perform a system check on the transmission electron microscope daily.

7. Make periodic performance checks of magnification, electron diffraction and energy dispersive X-ray systems as set forth in Table III under Unit II.I.

8. Ensure qualified operator performance by evaluation of replicate analysis and standard sample comparisons as set forth in Table III under Unit II.I.

9. Validate all data entries.

10. Recalculate a percentage of all computations and automatic data reduction steps as specified in Table III under Unit II.I.

11. Record an electron diffraction pattern of one asbestos structure from every five samples that contain asbestos. Verify the identification of the pattern by measurement or comparison of the pattern with patterns collected from standards under the same conditions. The records must also demonstrate that the identification of the pattern has been verified by a qualified individual and that the operator who made the identification is maintaining at least an 80 percent correct visual identification based on his measured patterns.

12. Appropriate logs or records must be maintained by the analytical laboratory verifying that it is in compliance with the mandatory quality assurance procedures.

For additional background information on this method, the following references should be consulted.

1. "Guidance for Controlling Asbestos-Containing Materials in Buildings," EPA 560/5-85-024, June 1985.

2. "Measuring Airborne Asbestos Following an Abatement Action," USEPA, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, EPA 600/4-85-049, 1985.

3. Small, John and E. Steel. Asbestos Standards: Materials and Analytical Methods. N.B.S. Special Publication 619, 1982.

4. Campbell, W.J., R.L. Blake, L.L. Brown, E.E. Cather, and J.J. Sjoberg. Selected Silicate Minerals and Their Asbestiform Varieties. Information Circular 8751, U.S. Bureau of Mines, 1977.

5. Quality Assurance Handbook for Air Pollution Measurement System. Ambient Air Methods, EPA 600/4-77-027a, USEPA, Office of Research and Development, 1977.

6. Method 2A: Direct Measurement of Gas Volume through Pipes and Small Ducts. 40 CFR Part 60 Appendix A.

7. Burdette, G.J., Health & Safety Exec. Research & Lab. Services Div., London, "Proposed Analytical Method for Determination of Asbestos in Air."

8. Chatfield, E.J., Chatfield Tech. Cons., Ltd., Clark, T., PEI Assoc., "Standard Operating Procedure for Determination of Airborne Asbestos Fibers by Transmission Electron Microscopy Using Polycarbonate Membrane Filters," WERL SOP 87-1, March 5, 1987.

9. NIOSH Method 7402 for Asbestos Fibers, 12-11-86 Draft.

10. Yamate, G., Agarwall, S.C., Gibbons, R.D., IIT Research Institute, "Methodology for the Measurement of Airborne Asbestos by Electron Microscopy," Draft report, USEPA Contract 68-02-3266, July 1984.

11. "Guidance to the Preparation of Quality Assurance Project Plans," USEPA, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, 1984.
