
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### Magnification Calibration.

3.The magnification calibration must be done at the fluorescent screen. The TEM must be calibrated at the grid opening magnification (if used) and also at the magnification used for fiber counting. This is performed with a cross grating replica (e.g., one containing 2,160 lines/mm). Define a field of view on the fluorescent screen either by markings or physical boundaries. The field of view must be measurable or previously inscribed with a scale or concentric circles (all scales should be metric). A logbook must be maintained, and the dates of calibration and the values obtained must be recorded. The frequency of calibration depends on the past history of the particular microscope. After any maintenance of the microscope that involved adjustment of the power supplied to the lenses or the high-voltage system or the mechanical disassembly of the electron optical column apart from filament exchange, the magnification must be recalibrated. Before the TEM calibration is performed, the analyst must ensure that the cross grating replica is placed at the same distance from the objective lens as the specimens are. For instruments that incorporate a eucentric tilting specimen stage, all specimens and the cross grating replica must be placed at the eucentric position.

4. While not required on every microscope in the laboratory, the laboratory must have either one microscope equipped with energy dispersive X-ray analysis or access to an equivalent system on a TEM in another laboratory.

5. Microscope settings: 80-120 kV, grid assessment 250-1,000X, then 15,000-20,000X screen magnification for analysis.

6. Approximately one-half (0.5) of the predetermined sample area to be analyzed shall be performed on one sample grid preparation and the remaining half on a second sample grid preparation.

7. Individual grid openings with greater than 5 percent openings (holes) or covered with greater than 25 percent particulate matter or obviously having nonuniform loading must not be analyzed.

8. Reject the grid if:

a. Less than 50 percent of the grid openings covered by the replica are intact.

b. The replica is doubled or folded.

c. The replica is too dark because of incomplete dissolution of the filter.
