
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### Preparation.

4.Direct preparation techniques are required. The objective is to produce an intact carbon film containing the particulates from the filter surface which is sufficiently clear for TEM analysis. Currently recommended direct preparation procedures for polycarbonate (PC) and mixed cellulose ester (MCE) filters are described in Unit III.F.7. and 8. Sample preparation is a subject requiring additional research. Variation on those steps which do not substantively change the procedure, which improve filter clearing or which reduce contamination problems in a laboratory are permitted.

a. Use only TEM grids that have had grid opening areas measured according to directions in Unit III.J.

b. Remove the inlet and outlet plugs prior to opening the cassette to minimize any pressure differential that may be present.

c. Examples of techniques used to prepare polycarbonate filters are described in Unit III.F.7.

d. Examples of techniques used to prepare mixed cellulose ester filters are described in Unit III.F.8.

e. Prepare multiple grids for each sample.

f. Store the three grids to be measured in appropriately labeled grid holders or polyethylene capsules.

5. Equipment.

a. Clean area.

b. Tweezers. Fine-point tweezers for handling of filters and TEM grids.

c. Scalpel Holder and Curved No. 10 Surgical Blades.

d. Microscope slides.

e. Double-coated adhesive tape.

f. Gummed page reinforcements.

g. Micro-pipet with disposal tips 10 to 100 µL variable volume.

h. Vacuum coating unit with facilities for evaporation of carbon. Use of a liquid nitrogen cold trap above the diffusion pump will minimize the possibility of contamination of the filter surface by oil from the pumping system. The vacuum-coating unit can also be used for deposition of a thin film of gold.
