
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### TEM

24.-Transmission electron microscope.

1. Sampling operations must be performed by qualified individuals completely independent of the abatement contractor to avoid possible conflict of interest (See References 1, 2, and 5 of Unit III.L.) Special precautions should be taken to avoid contamination of the sample. For example, materials that have not been prescreened for their asbestos background content should not be used; also, sample handling procedures which do not take cross contamination possibilities into account should not be used.

2. Material and supply checks for asbestos contamination should be made on all critical supplies, reagents, and procedures before their use in a monitoring study.

3. Quality control and quality assurance steps are needed to identify problem areas and isolate the cause of the contamination (see Reference 5 of Unit III.L.). Control checks shall be permanently recorded to document the quality of the information produced. The sampling firm must have written quality control procedures and documents which verify compliance. Independent audits by a qualified consultant or firm should be performed once a year. All documentation of compliance should be retained indefinitely to provide a guarantee of quality. A summary of Sample Data Quality Objectives is shown in Table II of Unit II.B.

4. Sampling materials.

a. Sample for airborne asbestos following an abatement action using commercially available cassettes.

b. Use either a cowling or a filter-retaining middle piece. Conductive material may reduce the potential for particulates to adhere to the walls of the cowl.

c. Cassettes must be verified as "clean" prior to use in the field. If packaged filters are used for loading or preloaded cassettes are purchased from the manufacturer or a distributor, the manufacturer's name and lot number should be entered on all field data sheets provided to the laboratory, and are required to be listed on all reports from the laboratory.

d. Assemble the cassettes in a clean facility (See definition of clean area under Unit III.A.).

e. Reloading of used cassettes is not permitted.

f. Use sample collection filters which are either polycarbonate having a pore size of less than or equal to 0.4 µm or mixed cellulose ester having a pore size of less than or equal to 0.45 µm.

g. Place these filters in series with a backup filter with a pore size of 5.0 µm (to serve as a diffuser) and a support pad. See the following Figure 1:

h. When polycarbonate filters are used, position the highly reflective face such that the incoming particulate is received on this surface.

i. Seal the cassettes to prevent leakage around the filter edges or between cassette part joints. A mechanical press may be useful to achieve a reproducible leak-free seal. Shrink fit gel-bands may be used for this purpose and are available from filter manufacturers and their authorized distributors.

j. Use wrinkle-free loaded cassettes in the sampling operation.

5. Pump setup.

a. Calibrate the sampling pump over the range of flow rates and loads anticipated for the monitoring period with this flow measuring device in series. Perform this calibration using guidance from EPA Method 2A each time the unit is sent to the field (See Reference 6 of Unit III.L.).

b. Configure the sampling system to preclude pump vibrations from being transmitted to the cassette by using a sampling stand separate from the pump station and making connections with flexible tubing.

c. Maintain continuous smooth flow conditions by damping out any pump action fluctuations if necessary.

d. Check the sampling system for leaks with the end cap still in place and the pump operating before initiating sample collection. Trace and stop the source of any flow indicated by the flowmeter under these conditions.

e. Select an appropriate flow rate equal to or greater than 1 L/min or less than 10 L/min for 25 mm cassettes. Larger filters may be operated at proportionally higher flow rates.

f. Orient the cassette downward at approximately 45 degrees from the horizontal.

g. Maintain a log of all pertinent sampling information, such as pump identification number, calibration data, sample location, date, sample identification number, flow rates at the beginning, middle, and end, start and stop times, and other useful information or comments. Use of a sampling log form is recommended. See the following Figure 2:

h. Initiate a chain of custody procedure at the start of each sampling, if this is requested by the client.

i. Maintain a close check of all aspects of the sampling operation on a regular basis.

j. Continue sampling until at least the minimum volume is collected, as specified in the following Table I:

k. At the conclusion of sampling, turn the cassette upward before stopping the flow to minimize possible particle loss. If the sampling is resumed, restart the flow before reorienting the cassette downward. Note the condition of the filter at the conclusion of sampling.

l. Double check to see that all information has been recorded on the data collection forms and that the cassette is securely closed and appropriately identified using a waterproof label. Protect cassettes in individual clean resealed polyethylene bags. Bags are to be used for storing cassette caps when they are removed for sampling purposes. Caps and plugs should only be removed or replaced using clean hands or clean disposable plastic gloves.

m. Do not change containers if portions of these filters are taken for other purposes.

6. Minimum sample number per site. A minimum of 13 samples are to be collected for each testing consisting of the following:

a. A minimum of five samples per abatement area.

b. A minimum of five samples per ambient area positioned at locations representative of the air entering the abatement site.

c. Two field blanks are to be taken by removing the cap for not more than 30 sec and replacing it at the time of sampling before sampling is initiated at the following places:

i. Near the entrance to each ambient area.

ii. At one of the ambient sites.

d. A sealed blank is to be carried with each sample set. This representative cassette is not to be opened in the field.

7. Abatement area sampling.

a. Conduct final clearance sampling only after the primary containment barriers have been removed; the abatement area has been thoroughly dried; and, it has passed visual inspection tests by qualified personnel. (See Reference 1 of Unit III.L.)

b. Containment barriers over windows, doors, and air passageways must remain in place until the TEM clearance sampling and analysis is completed and results meet clearance test criteria. The final plastic barrier remains in place for the sampling period.

c. Select sampling sites in the abatement area on a random basis to provide unbiased and representative samples.

d. After the area has passed a thorough visual inspection, use aggressive sampling conditions to dislodge any remaining dust.

i. Equipment used in aggressive sampling such as a leaf blower and/or fan should be properly cleaned and decontaminated before use.

ii. Air filtration units shall remain on during the air monitoring period.

iii. Prior to air monitoring, floors, ceiling and walls shall be swept with the exhaust of a minimum one (1) horsepower leaf blower.

iv. Stationary fans are placed in locations which will not interfere with air monitoring equipment. Fan air is directed toward the ceiling. One fan shall be used for each 10,000 ftof worksite.

v. Monitoring of an abatement work area with high-volume pumps and the use of circulating fans will require electrical power. Electrical outlets in the abatement area may be used if available. If no such outlets are available, the equipment must be supplied with electricity by the use of extension cords and strip plug units. All electrical power supply equipment of this type must be approved Underwriter Laboratory equipment that has not been modified. All wiring must be grounded. Ground fault interrupters should be used. Extreme care must be taken to clean up any residual water and ensure that electrical equipment does not become wet while operational.

vi. Low volume pumps may be carefully wrapped in 6-mil polyethylene to insulate the pump from the air. High volume pumps cannot be sealed in this manner since the heat of the motor may melt the plastic. The pump exhausts should be kept free.

vii. If recleaning is necessary, removal of this equipment from the work area must be handled with care. It is not possible to completely decontaminate the pump motor and parts since these areas cannot be wetted. To minimize any problems in this area, all equipment such as fans and pumps should be carefully wet wiped prior to removal from the abatement area. Wrapping and sealing low volume pumps in 6-mil polyethylene will provide easier decontamination of this equipment. Use of clean water and disposable wipes should be available for this purpose.

e. Pump flow rate equal to or greater than 1 L/min or less than 10 L/min may be used for 25 mm cassettes. The larger cassette diameters may have comparably increased flow.

f. Sample a volume of air sufficient to ensure the minimum quantitation limits. (See Table I of Unit III.B.5.j.)

8. Ambient sampling.

a. Position ambient samplers at locations representative of the air entering the abatement site. If makeup air entering the abatement site is drawn from another area of the building which is outside of the abatement area, place the pumps in the building, pumps should be placed out of doors located near the building and away from any obstructions that may influence wind patterns. If construction is in progress immediately outside the enclosure, it may be necessary to select another ambient site. Samples should be representative of any air entering the work site.

b. Locate the ambient samplers at least 3 ft apart and protect them from adverse weather conditions.

c. Sample same volume of air as samples taken inside the abatement site.

1. Ship bulk samples in a separate container from air samples. Bulk samples and air samples delivered to the analytical laboratory in the same container shall be rejected.

2. Select a rigid shipping container and pack the cassettes upright in a noncontaminating nonfibrous medium such as a bubble pack. The use of resealable polyethylene bags may help to prevent jostling of individual cassettes.

3. Avoid using expanded polystyrene because of its static charge potential. Also avoid using particle-based packaging materials because of possible contamination.

4. Include a shipping bill and a detailed listing of samples shipped, their descriptions and all identifying numbers or marks, sampling data, shipper's name, and contact information. For each sample set, designate which are the ambient samples, which are the abatement area samples, which are the field blanks, and which is the sealed blank if sequential analysis is to be performed.

5. Hand-carry samples to the laboratory in an upright position if possible; otherwise choose that mode of transportation least likely to jar the samples in transit.

6. Address the package to the laboratory sample coordinator by name when known and alert him or her of the package description, shipment mode, and anticipated arrival as part of the chain of custody and sample tracking procedures. This will also help the laboratory schedule timely analysis for the samples when they are received.

Monitoring the environment for airborne asbestos requires the use of sensitive sampling and analysis procedures. Because the test is sensitive, it may be influenced by a variety of factors. These include the supplies used in the sampling operation, the performance of the sampling, the preparation of the grid from the filter and the actual examination of this grid in the microscope. Each of these unit operations must produce a product of defined quality if the analytical result is to be a reliable and meaningful test result. Accordingly, a series of control checks and reference standards is performed along with the sample analysis as indicators that the materials used are adequate and the operations are within acceptable limits. In this way, the quality of the data is defined, and the results are of known value. These checks and tests also provide timely and specific warning of any problems which might develop within the sampling and analysis operations. A description of these quality control/quality assurance procedures is summarized in the text below.

1. Prescreen the loaded cassette collection filters to assure that they do not contain concentrations of asbestos which may interfere with the analysis of the sample. A filter blank average of less than 18 s/mmin an area of 0.057 mm(nominally 10 200-mesh grid openings) and a maximum of 53 s/mmfor that same area for any single preparation is acceptable for this method.

2. Calibrate sampling pumps and their flow indicators over the range of their intended use with a recognized standard. Assemble the sampling system with a representative filter-not the filter which will be used in sampling-before and after the sampling operation.

3. Record all calibration information with the data to be used on a standard sampling form.

4. Ensure that the samples are stored in a secure and representative location.

5. Ensure that mechanical calibrations from the pump will be minimized to prevent transferral of vibration to the cassette.

6. Ensure that a continuous smooth flow of negative pressure is delivered by the pump by installing a damping chamber if necessary.

7. Open a loaded cassette momentarily at one of the indoor sampling sites when sampling is initiated. This sample will serve as an indoor field blank.

8. Open a loaded cassette momentarily at one of the outdoor sampling sites when sampling is initiated. This sample will serve as an outdoor field blank.

9. Carry a sealed blank into the field with each sample series. Do not open this cassette in the field.

10. Perform a leak check of the sampling system at each indoor and outdoor sampling site by activating the pump with the closed sampling cassette in line. Any flow indicates a leak which must be eliminated before initiating the sampling operation.

11. Ensure that the sampler is turned upright before interrupting the pump flow.

12. Check that all samples are clearly labeled and that all pertinent information has been enclosed before transfer of the samples to the laboratory.

1. Designate one individual as sample coordinator at the laboratory. While that individual will normally be available to receive samples, the coordinator may train and supervise others in receiving procedures for those times when he/she is not available.

2. Adhere to the following procedures to ensure both the continued chain-of-custody and the accountability of all samples passing through the laboratory:

a. Note the condition of the shipping package and data written on it upon receipt.

b. Retain all bills of lading or shipping slips to document the shipper and delivery time.

c. Examine the chain-of-custody seal, if any, and the package for its integrity.

d. If there has been a break in the seal or substantive damage to the package, the sample coordinator shall immediately notify the shipper and a responsible laboratory manager before any action is taken to unpack the shipment.

e. Packages with significant damage shall be accepted only by the responsible laboratory manager after discussions with the client.

3. Unwrap the shipment in a clean, uncluttered facility. The sample coordinator or his or her designee will record the contents, including a description of each item and all identifying numbers or marks. A Sample Receiving Form to document this information is attached for use when necessary. (See the following Figure 3.)

4. Assign a laboratory number and schedule an analysis sequence.

5. Manage all chain-of-custody samples within the laboratory such that their integrity can be ensured and documented.

1. Personnel not affiliated with the Abatement Contractor shall be used to prepare samples and conduct TEM analysis. Wet-wipe the exterior of the cassettes to minimize contamination possibilities before taking them to the clean sample preparation facility.

2. Perform sample preparation in a well-equipped clean facility.

3. Preparation areas for air samples must be separated from preparation areas for bulk samples. Personnel must not prepare air samples if they have previously been preparing bulk samples without performing appropriate personal hygiene procedures, i.e., clothing change, showering, etc.
