
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### Instrumentation.

1.

a. Use an 80-120 kV TEM capable of performing electron diffraction with a fluorescent screen inscribed with calibrated gradations. If the TEM is equipped with EDXA it must either have a STEM attachment or be capable of producing a spot less than 250 nm in diameter at crossover. The microscope shall be calibrated routinely (see Unit III.J.) for magnification and camera constant.

b. While not required on every microscope in the laboratory, the laboratory must have either one microscope equipped with energy dispersive X-ray analysis or access to an equivalent system on a TEM in another laboratory. This must be an Energy Dispersive X-ray Detector mounted on TEM column and associated hardware/software to collect, save, and read out spectral information. Calibration of Multi-Channel Analyzer shall be checked regularly for A1 at 1.48 KeV and Cu at 8.04 KeV, as well as the manufacturer's procedures.

i. Standard replica grating may be used to determine magnification (e.g., 2160 lines/mm).

ii. Gold standard may be used to determine camera constant.

c. Use a specimen holder with single tilt and/or double tilt capabilities.

2. Procedure.

a. Start a new Count Sheet for each sample to be analyzed. Record on count sheet: analyst's initials and date; lab sample number; client sample number microscope identification; magnification for analysis; number of predetermined grid openings to be analyzed; and grid identification. See the following Figure 4:

b. Check that the microscope is properly aligned and calibrated according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.

c. Microscope settings: 80-120 kV, grid assessment 250-1000X, then 15,000-20,000X screen magnification for analysis.

d. Approximately one-half (0.5) of the predetermined sample area to be analyzed shall be performed on one sample grid preparation and the remaining half on a second sample grid preparation.

e. Determine the suitability of the grid.

i. Individual grid openings with greater than 5 percent openings (holes) or covered with greater than 25 percent particulate matter or obviously having nonuniform loading shall not be analyzed.

ii. Examine the grid at low magnification (<1000X) to determine its suitability for detailed study at higher magnifications.

iii. Reject the grid if:

(1) Less than 50 percent of the grid openings covered by the replica are intact.

(2) It is doubled or folded.

(3) It is too dark because of incomplete dissolution of the filter.

iv. If the grid is rejected, load the next sample grid.

v. If the grid is acceptable, continue on to Step 6 if mapping is to be used; otherwise proceed to Step 7.

f. Grid Map (Optional).

i. Set the TEM to the low magnification mode.

ii. Use flat edge or finder grids for mapping.

iii. Index the grid openings (fields) to be counted by marking the acceptable fields for one-half (0.5) of the area needed for analysis on each of the two grids to be analyzed. These may be marked just before examining each grid opening (field), if desired.

iv. Draw in any details which will allow the grid to be properly oriented if it is reloaded into the microscope and a particular field is to be reliably identified.

g. Scan the grid.

i. Select a field to start the examination.

ii. Choose the appropriate magnification (15,000 to 20,000X screen magnification).

iii. Scan the grid as follows.

(1) At the selected magnification, make a series of parallel traverses across the field. On reaching the end of one traverse, move the image one window and reverse the traverse.

(2) Make parallel traverses until the entire grid opening (field) has been scanned.

h. Identify each structure for appearance and size.

i. Appearance and size: Any continuous grouping of particles in which an asbestos fiber within aspect ratio greater than or equal to 5:1 and a length greater than or equal to 0.5 µm is detected shall be recorded on the count sheet. These will be designated asbestos structures and will be classified as fibers, bundles, clusters, or matrices. Record as individual fibers any contiguous grouping having 0, 1, or 2 definable intersections. Groupings having more than 2 intersections are to be described as cluster or matrix. See the following Figure 5:
