
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### Intersection.

(6)Non-parallel touching or crossing of fibers, with the projection having an aspect ratio 5:1 or greater.

ii. Structure Measurement.

(1) Recognize the structure that is to be sized.

(2) Memorize its location in the "window" relative to the sides, inscribed square and to other particulates in the field so this exact location can be found again when scanning is resumed.

(3) Measure the structure using the scale on the screen.

(4) Record the length category and structure type classification on the count sheet after the field number and fiber number.

(5) Return the fiber to its original location in the window and scan the rest of the field for other fibers; if the direction of travel is not remembered, return to the right side of the field and begin the traverse again.

i. Visual identification of Electron Diffraction (ED) patterns is required for each asbestos structure counted which would cause the analysis to exceed the 70 s/mmconcentration. (Generally this means the first four fibers identified as asbestos must exhibit an identifiable diffraction pattern for chrysotile or amphibole.)

i. Center the structure, focus, and obtain an ED pattern. (See Microscope Instruction Manual for more detailed instructions.)

ii. From a visual examination of the ED pattern, obtained with a short camera length, classify the observed structure as belonging to one of the following classifications: chrysotile, amphibole, or nonasbestos.

(1) Chrysotile: The chrysotile asbestos pattern has characteristic streaks on the layer lines other than the central line and some streaking also on the central line. There will be spots of normal sharpness on the central layer line and on alternate lines (2nd, 4th, etc.). The repeat distance between layer lines is 0.53 nm and the center doublet is at 0.73 nm. The pattern should display (002), (110), (130) diffraction maxima; distances and geometry should match a chrysotile pattern and be measured semiquantitatively.

(2) Amphibole Group [includes grunerite (amosite), crocidolite, anthophyllite, tremolite, and actinolite]: Amphibole asbestos fiber patterns show layer lines formed by very closely spaced dots, and the repeat distance between layer lines is also about 0.53 nm. Streaking in layer lines is occasionally present due to crystal structure defects.

(3) Nonasbestos: Incomplete or unobtainable ED patterns, a nonasbestos EDXA, or a nonasbestos morphology.

iii. The micrograph number of the recorded diffraction patterns must be reported to the client and maintained in the laboratory's quality assurance records. The records must also demonstrate that the identification of the pattern has been verified by a qualified individual and that the operator who made the identification is maintaining at least an 80 percent correct visual identification based on his measured patterns. In the event that examination of the pattern by the qualified individual indicates that the pattern had been misidentified visually, the client shall be contacted. If the pattern is a suspected chrysotile, take a photograph of the diffraction pattern at 0 degrees tilt. If the structure is suspected to be amphibole, the sample may have to be tilted to obtain a simple geometric array of spots.

j. Energy Dispersive X-Ray Analysis (EDXA).

i. Required of all amphiboles which would cause the analysis results to exceed the 70 s/mmconcentration. (Generally speaking, the first 4 amphiboles would require EDXA.)

ii. Can be used alone to confirm chrysotile after the 70 s/mmconcentration has been exceeded.

iii. Can be used alone to confirm all nonasbestos.

iv. Compare spectrum profiles with profiles obtained from asbestos standards. The closest match identifies and categorizes the structure.

v. If the EDXA is used for confirmation, record the properly labeled spectrum on a computer disk, or if a hard copy, file with analysis data.

vi. If the number of fibers in the nonasbestos class would cause the analysis to exceed the 70 s/mmconcentration, their identities must be confirmed by EDXA or measurement of a zone axis diffraction pattern to establish that the particles are nonasbestos.

k. Stopping Rules.

i. If more than 50 asbestiform structures are counted in a particular grid opening, the analysis may be terminated.

ii. After having counted 50 asbestiform structures in a minimum of 4 grid openings, the analysis may be terminated. The grid opening in which the 50th fiber was counted must be completed.

iii. For blank samples, the analysis is always continued until 10 grid openings have been analyzed.

iv. In all other samples the analysis shall be continued until an analytical sensitivity of 0.005 s/cmis reached.

l. Recording Rules. The count sheet should contain the following information:

i. Field (grid opening): List field number.

ii. Record "NSD" if no structures are detected.

iii. Structure information.

(1) If fibers, bundles, clusters, and/or matrices are found, list them in consecutive numerical order, starting over with each field.

(2) Length. Record length category of asbestos fibers examined. Indicate if less than 5 µm or greater than or equal to 5 µm.

(3) Structure Type. Positive identification of asbestos fibers is required by the method. At least one diffraction pattern of each fiber type from every five samples must be recorded and compared with a standard diffraction pattern. For each asbestos fiber reported, both a morphological descriptor and an identification descriptor shall be specified on the count sheet.

(4) Fibers classified as chrysotile must be identified by diffraction and/or X-ray analysis and recorded on the count sheet. X-ray analysis alone can be used as sole identification only after 70s/mmhave been exceeded for a particular sample.

(5) Fibers classified as amphiboles must be identified by X-ray analysis and electron diffraction and recorded on the count sheet. (X-ray analysis alone can be used as sole identification only after 70s/mmhave been exceeded for a particular sample.)

(6) If a diffraction pattern was recorded on film, the micrograph number must be indicated on the count sheet.

(7) If an electron diffraction was attempted and an appropriate spectra is not observed, N should be recorded on the count sheet.

(8) If an X-ray analysis is attempted but not observed, N should be recorded on the count sheet.

(9) If an X-ray analysis spectrum is stored, the file and disk number must be recorded on the count sheet.

m. Classification Rules.
