
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### Specimen preparation laboratory.

a.It is most important to ensure that contamination of TEM specimens by extraneous asbestos fibers is minimized during preparation.

b. Cleaning of sample cassettes. Upon receipt at the analytical laboratory and before they are taken into the clean facility or laminar flow hood, the sample cassettes must be cleaned of any contamination adhering to the outside surfaces.

c. Preparation of the carbon evaporator. If the polycarbonate filter has already been carbon-coated prior to receipt, the carbon coating step will be omitted, unless the analyst believes the carbon film is too thin. If there is a need to apply more carbon, the filter will be treated in the same way as an uncoated filter. Carbon coating must be performed with a high-vacuum coating unit. Units that are based on evaporation of carbon filaments in a vacuum generated only by an oil rotary pump have not been evaluated for this application, and must not be used. The carbon rods should be sharpened by a carbon rod sharpener to necks of about 4 mm long and 1 mm in diameter. The rods are installed in the evaporator in such a manner that the points are approximately 10 to 12 cm from the surface of a microscope slide held in the rotating and tilting device.

d. Selection of filter area for carbon coating. Before preparation of the filters, a 75 mm x 50 mm microscope slide is washed and dried. This slide is used to support strips of filter during the carbon evaporation. Two parallel strips of double-sided adhesive tape are applied along the length of the slide. Polycarbonate filters are easily stretched during handling, and cutting of areas for further preparation must be performed with great care. The filter and the MCE backing filter are removed together from the cassette and placed on a cleaned glass microscope slide. The filter can be cut with a curved scalpel blade by rocking the blade from the point placed in contact with the filter. The process can be repeated to cut a strip approximately 3 mm wide across the diameter of the filter. The strip of polycarbonate filter is separated from the corresponding strip of backing filter and carefully placed so that it bridges the gap between the adhesive tape strips on the microscope slide. The filter strip can be held with fine-point tweezers and supported underneath by the scalpel blade during placement on the microscope slide. The analyst can place several such strips on the same microscope slide, taking care to rinse and wet-wipe the scalpel blade and tweezers before handling a new sample. The filter strips should be identified by etching the glass slide or marking the slide using a marker insoluble in water and solvents. After the filter strip has been cut from each filter, the residual parts of the filter must be returned to the cassette and held in position by reassembly of the cassette. The cassette will then be archived for a period of 30 days or returned to the client upon request.

e. Carbon coating of filter strips. The glass slide holding the filter strips is placed on the rotation-tilting device, and the evaporator chamber is evacuated. The evaporation must be performed in very short bursts, separated by some seconds to allow the electrodes to cool. If evaporation is too rapid, the strips of polycarbonate filter will begin to curl, which will lead to cross-linking of the surface material and make it relatively insoluble in chloroform. An experienced analyst can judge the thickness of carbon film to be applied, and some test should be made first on unused filters. If the film is too thin, large particles will be lost from the TEM specimen, and there will be few complete and undamaged grid openings on the specimen. If the coating is too thick, the filter will tend to curl when exposed to chloroform vapor and the carbon film may not adhere to the support mesh. Too thick a carbon film will also lead to a TEM image that is lacking in contrast, and the ability to obtain ED patterns will be compromised. The carbon film should be as thin as possible and remain intact on most of the grid openings of the TEM specimen intact.

f. Preparation of the Jaffe washer. The precise design of the Jaffe washer is not considered important, so any one of the published designs may be used. A washer consisting of a simple stainless steel bridge is recommended. Several pieces of lens tissue approximately 1.0 cm x 0.5 cm are placed on the stainless steel bridge, and the washer is filled with chloroform to a level where the meniscus contacts the underside of the mesh, which results in saturation of the lens tissue. See References 8 and 10 of Unit III.L.

g. Placing of specimens into the Jaffe washer. The TEM grids are first placed on a piece of lens tissue so that individual grids can be picked up with tweezers. Using a curved scalpel blade, the analyst excises three 3 mm square pieces of the carbon-coated polycarbonate filter from the filter strip. The three squares are selected from the center of the strip and from two points between the outer periphery of the active surface and the center. The piece of filter is placed on a TEM specimen grid with the shiny side of the TEM grid facing upwards, and the whole assembly is placed boldly onto the saturated lens tissue in the Jaffe washer. If carbon-coated grids are used, the filter should be placed carbon-coated side down. The three excised squares of filters are placed on the same piece of lens tissue. Any number of separate pieces of lens tissue may be placed in the same Jaffe washer. The lid is then placed on the Jaffe washer, and the system is allowed to stand for several hours, preferably overnight.
