
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### Condensation washing.

h.It has been found that many polycarbonate filters will not dissolve completely in the Jaffe washer, even after being exposed to chloroform for as long as 3 days. This problem becomes more serious if the surface of the filter was overheated during the carbon evaporation. The presence of undissolved filter medium on the TEM preparation leads to partial or complete obscuration of areas of the sample, and fibers that may be present in these areas of the specimen will be overlooked; this will lead to a low result. Undissolved filter medium also compromises the ability to obtain ED patterns. Before they are counted, TEM grids must be examined critically to determine whether they are adequately cleared of residual filter medium. It has been found that condensation washing of the grids after the initial Jaffe washer treatment, with chloroform as the solvent, clears all residual filter medium in a period of approximately 1 hour. In practice, the piece of lens tissue supporting the specimen grids is transferred to the cold finger of the condensation washer, and the washer is operated for about 1 hour. If the specimens are cleared satisfactorily by the Jaffe washer alone, the condensation washer step may be unnecessary.

8. TEM specimen preparation from MCE filters.

a. This method of preparing TEM specimens from MCE filters is similar to that specified in NIOSH Method 7402. See References 7, 8, and 9 of Unit III.L.

b. Upon receipt at the analytical laboratory, the sample cassettes must be cleaned of any contamination adhering to the outside surfaces before entering the clean sample preparation area.

c. Remove a section from any quadrant of the sample and blank filters.

d. Place the section on a clean microscope slide. Affix the filter section to the slide with a gummed paged reinforcement or other suitable means. Label the slide with a water and solvent-proof marking pen.

e. Place the slide in a petri dish which contains several paper filters soaked with 2 to 3 mL acetone. Cover the dish. Wait 2 to 4 minutes for the sample filter to fuse and clear.

f. Plasma etching of the collapsed filter is required.

i. The microscope slide to which the collapsed filter pieces are attached is placed in a plasma asher. Because plasma ashers vary greatly in their performance, both from unit to unit and between different positions in the asher chamber, it is difficult to specify the conditions that should be used. This is one area of the method that requires further evaluation. Insufficient etching will result in a failure to expose embedded filters, and too much etching may result in loss of particulate from the surface. As an interim measure, it is recommended that the time for ashing of a known weight of a collapsed filter be established and that the etching rate be calculated in terms of micrometers per second. The actual etching time used for a particular asher and operating conditions will then be set such that a 1-2 µm (10 percent) layer of collapsed surface will be removed.

ii. Place the slide containing the collapsed filters into a low-temperature plasma asher, and etch the filter.

g. Transfer the slide to a rotating stage inside the bell jar of a vacuum evaporator. Evaporate a 1 mm x 5 mm section of graphite rod onto the cleared filter. Remove the slide to a clean, dry, covered petri dish.

h. Prepare a second petri dish as a Jaffe washer with the wicking substrate prepared from filter or lens paper placed on top of a 6 mm thick disk of clean spongy polyurethane foam. Cut a V-notch on the edge of the foam and filter paper. Use the V-notch as a reservoir for adding solvent. The wicking substrate should be thin enough to fit into the petri dish without touching the lid.

i. Place carbon-coated TEM grids face up on the filter or lens paper. Label the grids by marking with a pencil on the filter paper or by putting registration marks on the petri dish lid and marking with a waterproof marker on the dish lid. In a fume hood, fill the dish with acetone until the wicking substrate is saturated. The level of acetone should be just high enough to saturate the filter paper without creating puddles.

j. Remove about a quarter section of the carbon-coated filter samples from the glass slides using a surgical knife and tweezers. Carefully place the section of the filter, carbon side down, on the appropriately labeled grid in the acetone-saturated petri dish. When all filter sections have been transferred, slowly add more solvent to the wedge-shaped trough to bring the acetone level up to the highest possible level without disturbing the sample preparations. Cover the petri dish. Elevate one side of the petri dish by placing a slide under it. This allows drops of condensed solvent vapors to form near the edge rather than in the center where they would drip onto the grid preparation.
