
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix C to Subpart E of Part 763 - Asbestos Model Accreditation Plan

The Asbestos Model Accreditation Plan (MAP) for States has eight components:

(A) Definitions

(B) Initial Training

(C) Examinations

(D) Continuing Education

(E) Qualifications

(F) Recordkeeping Requirements for Training Providers

(G) Deaccreditation

(H) Reciprocity

(I) Electronic reporting

For purposes of Appendix C:

1. "Friable asbestos-containing material (ACM)" means any material containing more than one percent asbestos which has been applied on ceilings, walls, structural members, piping, duct work, or any other part of a building, which when dry, may be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder by hand pressure. The term includes non-friable asbestos-containing material after such previously non-friable material becomes damaged to the extent that when dry it may be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder by hand pressure.

2. "Friable asbestos-containing building material (ACBM)" means any friable ACM that is in or on interior structural members or other parts of a school or public and commercial building.

3. "Inspection" means an activity undertaken in a school building, or a public and commercial building, to determine the presence or location, or to assess the condition of, friable or non-friable asbestos-containing building material (ACBM) or suspected ACBM, whether by visual or physical examination, or by collecting samples of such material. This term includes reinspections of friable and non-friable known or assumed ACBM which has been previously identified. The term does not include the following:

a. Periodic surveillance of the type described in 40 CFR 763.92(b) solely for the purpose of recording or reporting a change in the condition of known or assumed ACBM;

b. Inspections performed by employees or agents of Federal, State, or local government solely for the purpose of determining compliance with applicable statutes or regulations; or

c. visual inspections of the type described in 40 CFR 763.90(i) solely for the purpose of determining completion of response actions.

4. "Major fiber release episode" means any uncontrolled or unintentional disturbance of ACBM, resulting in a visible emission, which involves the falling or dislodging of more than 3 square or linear feet of friable ACBM.

5. "Minor fiber release episode" means any uncontrolled or unintentional disturbance of ACBM, resulting in a visible emission, which involves the falling or dislodging of 3 square or linear feet or less of friable ACBM.

6. "Public and commercial building" means the interior space of any building which is not a school building, except that the term does not include any residential apartment building of fewer than 10 units or detached single-family homes. The term includes, but is not limited to: industrial and office buildings, residential apartment buildings and condominiums of 10 or more dwelling units, government-owned buildings, colleges, museums, airports, hospitals, churches, preschools, stores, warehouses and factories. Interior space includes exterior hallways connecting buildings, porticos, and mechanical systems used to condition interior space.

7. "Response action" means a method, including removal, encapsulation, enclosure, repair, and operation and maintenance, that protects human health and the environment from friable ACBM.

8. "Small-scale, short-duration activities (SSSD)" are tasks such as, but not limited to:

a. Removal of asbestos-containing insulation on pipes.

b. Removal of small quantities of asbestos-containing insulation on beams or above ceilings.

c. Replacement of an asbestos-containing gasket on a valve.

d. Installation or removal of a small section of drywall.

e. Installation of electrical conduits through or proximate to asbestos-containing materials.

SSSD can be further defined by the following considerations:

f. Removal of small quantities of ACM only if required in the performance of another maintenance activity not intended as asbestos abatement.

g. Removal of asbestos-containing thermal system insulation not to exceed amounts greater than those which can be contained in a single glove bag.

h. Minor repairs to damaged thermal system insulation which do not require removal.

i. Repairs to a piece of asbestos-containing wallboard.

j. Repairs, involving encapsulation, enclosure, or removal, to small amounts of friable ACM only if required in the performance of emergency or routine maintenance activity and not intended solely as asbestos abatement. Such work may not exceed amounts greater than those which can be contained in a single prefabricated mini-enclosure. Such an enclosure shall conform spatially and geometrically to the localized work area, in order to perform its intended containment function.

Training requirements for purposes of accreditation are specified both in terms of required subjects of instruction and in terms of length of training. Each initial training course has a prescribed curriculum and number of days of training. One day of training equals 8 hours, including breaks and lunch. Course instruction must be provided by EPA or State-approved instructors. EPA or State instructor approval shall be based upon a review of the instructor's academic credentials and/or field experience in asbestos abatement.

Beyond the initial training requirements, individual States may wish to consider requiring additional days of training for purposes of supplementing hands-on activities or for reviewing relevant state regulations. States also may wish to consider the relative merits of a worker apprenticeship program. Further, they might consider more stringent minimum qualification standards for the approval of training instructors. EPA recommends that the enrollment in any given course be limited to 25 students so that adequate opportunities exist for individual hands-on experience.

States have the option to provide initial training directly or approve other entities to offer training. The following requirements are for the initial training of persons required to have accreditation under TSCA Title II.

Training requirements for each of the five accredited disciplines are outlined below. Persons in each discipline perform a different job function and distinct role. Inspectors identify and assess the condition of ACBM, or suspect ACBM. Management planners use data gathered by inspectors to assess the degree of hazard posed by ACBM in schools to determine the scope and timing of appropriate response actions needed for schools. Project designers determine how asbestos abatement work should be conducted. Lastly, workers and contractor/supervisors carry out and oversee abatement work. In addition, a recommended training curriculum is also presented for a sixth discipline, which is not federally-accredited, that of "Project Monitor." Each accredited discipline and training curriculum is separate and distinct from the others. A person seeking accreditation in any of the five accredited MAP disciplines cannot attend two or more courses concurrently, but may attend such courses sequentially.

In several instances, initial training courses for a specific discipline (e.g., workers, inspectors) require hands-on training. For asbestos abatement contractor/supervisors and workers, hands-on training should include working with asbestos-substitute materials, fitting and using respirators, use of glovebags, donning protective clothing, and constructing a decontamination unit as well as other abatement work activities.

A person must be accredited as a worker to carry out any of the following activities with respect to friable ACBM in a school or public and commercial building: (1) A response action other than a SSSD activity, (2) a maintenance activity that disturbs friable ACBM other than a SSSD activity, or (3) a response action for a major fiber release episode. All persons seeking accreditation as asbestos abatement workers shall complete at least a 4-day training course as outlined below. The 4-day worker training course shall include lectures, demonstrations, at least 14 hours of hands-on training, individual respirator fit testing, course review, and an examination. Hands-on training must permit workers to have actual experience performing tasks associated with asbestos abatement. A person who is otherwise accredited as a contractor/supervisor may perform in the role of a worker without possessing separate accreditation as a worker.

Because of cultural diversity associated with the asbestos workforce, EPA recommends that States adopt specific standards for the approval of foreign language courses for abatement workers. EPA further recommends the use of audio-visual materials to complement lectures, where appropriate.

The training course shall adequately address the following topics:
