
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### NSD.

v.Record NSD when no structures are detected in the field.

n. After all necessary analyses of a particle structure have been completed, return the goniometer stage to 0 degrees, and return the structure to its original location by recall of the original location.

o. Continue scanning until all the structures are identified, classified and sized in the field.

p. Select additional fields (grid openings) at low magnification; scan at a chosen magnification (15,000 to 20,000X screen magnification); and analyze until the stopping rule becomes applicable.

q. Carefully record all data as they are being collected, and check for accuracy.

r. After finishing with a grid, remove it from the microscope, and replace it in the appropriate grid hold. Sample grids must be stored for a minimum of 1 year from the date of the analysis; the sample cassette must be retained for a minimum of 30 days by the laboratory or returned at the client's request.

1. Carry out visual inspection of work site prior to air monitoring.

2. Collect a minimum of five air samples inside the work site and five samples outside the work site. The indoor and outdoor samples shall be taken during the same time period.

3. Analyze the abatement area samples according to this protocol. The analysis must meet the 0.005 s/cmanalytical sensitivity.

4. Remaining steps in the analytical sequence are contained in Unit IV. of this Appendix.

The following information must be reported to the client. See the following Table II:

1. Concentration in structures per square millimeter and structures per cubic centimeter.

2. Analytical sensitivity used for the analysis.

3. Number of asbestos structures.

4. Area analyzed.

5. Volume of air samples (which was initially provided by client).

6. Average grid size opening.

7. Number of grids analyzed.

8. Copy of the count sheet must be included with the report.

9. Signature of laboratory official to indicate that the laboratory met specifications of the AHERA method.

10. Report form must contain official laboratory identification (e.g., letterhead).

11. Type of asbestos.
