
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Transmission Electron Microscopy Analytical Methods - Mandatory and Nonmandatory - and Mandatory Section To Determine Completion of Response Actions
####### TEM Magnification.

a.The magnification at the fluorescent screen of the TEM must be calibrated at the grid opening magnification (if used) and also at the magnification used for fiber counting. This is performed with a cross grating replica. A logbook must be maintained, and the dates of calibration depend on the past history of the particular microscope; no frequency is specified. After any maintenance of the microscope that involved adjustment of the power supplied to the lenses or the high-voltage system or the mechanical disassembly of the electron optical column apart from filament exchange, the magnification must be recalibrated. Before the TEM calibration is performed, the analyst must ensure that the cross grating replica is placed at the same distance from the objective lens as the specimens are. For instruments that incorporate an eucentric tilting specimen stage, all speciments and the cross grating replica must be placed at the eucentric position.

b. Determination of the TEM magnification on the fluorescent screen.

i. Define a field of view on the fluorescent screen either by markings or physical boundaries. The field of view must be measurable or previously inscribed with a scale or concentric circles (all scales should be metric).

ii. Insert a diffraction grating replica (for example a grating containing 2,160 lines/mm) into the specimen holder and place into the microscope. Orient the replica so that the grating lines fall perpendicular to the scale on the TEM fluorescent screen. Ensure that the goniometer stage tilt is 0 degrees.

iii. Adjust microscope magnification to 10,000X or 20,000X. Measure the distance (mm) between two widely separated lines on the grating replica. Note the number of spaces between the lines. Take care to measure between the same relative positions on the lines (e.g., between left edges of lines).

iv. Calculate the true magnification (M) on the fluorescent screen:

c. Calibration of the EDXA System. Initially, the EDXA system must be calibrated by using two reference elements to calibrate the energy scale of the instrument. When this has been completed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, calibration in terms of the different types of asbestos can proceed. The EDXA detectors vary in both solid angle of detection and in window thickness. Therefore, at a particular accelerating voltage in use on the TEM, the count rate obtained from specific dimensions of fiber will vary both in absolute X-ray count rate and in the relative X-ray peak heights for different elements. Only a few minerals are relevant for asbestos abatement work, and in this procedure the calibration is specified in terms of a "fingerprint" technique. The EDXA spectra must be recorded from individual fibers of the relevant minerals, and identifications are made on the basis of semiquantitative comparisons with these reference spectra.

d. Calibration of Grid Openings.

i. Measure 20 grid openings on each of 20 random 200-mesh copper grids by placing a grid on a glass slide and examining it under the PCM. Use a calibrated graticule to measure the average field diameter and use this number to calculate the field area for an average grid opening. Grids are to be randomly selected from batches up to 1,000.

ii. The mean grid opening area must be measured for the type of specimen grids in use. This can be accomplished on the TEM at a properly calibrated low magnification or on an optical microscope at a magnification of approximately 400X by using an eyepiece fitted with a scale that has been calibrated against a stage micrometer. Optical microscopy utilizing manual or automated procedures may be used providing instrument calibration can be verified.

e. Determination of Camera Constant and ED Pattern Analysis.

i. The camera length of the TEM in ED operating mode must be calibrated before ED patterns on unknown samples are observed. This can be achieved by using a carbon-coated grid on which a thin film of gold has been sputtered or evaporated. A thin film of gold is evaporated on the specimen TEM grid to obtain zone-axis ED patterns superimposed with a ring pattern from the polycrystalline gold film.

ii. In practice, it is desirable to optimize the thickness of the gold film so that only one or two sharp rings are obtained on the superimposed ED pattern. Thicker gold film would normally give multiple gold rings, but it will tend to mask weaker diffraction spots from the unknown fibrous particulates. Since the unknown d-spacings of most interest in asbestos analysis are those which lie closest to the transmitted beam, multiple gold rings are unnecessary on zone-axis ED patterns. An average camera constant using multiple gold rings can be determined. The camera constant is one-half the diameter, D, of the rings times the interplanar spacing, d, of the ring being measured.

Monitoring the environment for airborne asbestos requires the use of sensitive sampling and analysis procedures. Because the test is sensitive, it may be influenced by a variety of factors. These include the supplies used in the sampling operation, the performance of the sampling, the preparation of the grid from the filter and the actual examination of this grid in the microscope. Each of these unit operations must produce a product of defined quality if the analytical result is to be a reliable and meaningful test result. Accordingly, a series of control checks and reference standards is performed along with the sample analysis as indicators that the materials used are adequate and the operations are within acceptable limits. In this way, the quality of the data is defined and the results are of known value. These checks and tests also provide timely and specific warning of any problems which might develop within the sampling and analysis operations. A description of these quality control/quality assurance procedures is summarized in the following Table III:

1. When the samples arrive at the laboratory, check the samples and documentation for completeness and requirements before initiating the analysis.

2. Check all laboratory reagents and supplies for acceptable asbestos background levels.

3. Conduct all sample preparation in a clean room environment monitored by laboratory blanks and special testing after cleaning or servicing the room.

4. Prepare multiple grids of each sample.

5. Provide laboratory blanks with each sample batch. Maintain a cumulative average of these results. If this average is greater than 53 f/mmper 10 200-mesh grid openings, check the system for possible sources of contamination.

6. Check for recovery of asbestos from cellulose ester filters submitted to plasma asher.

7. Check for asbestos carryover in the plasma asher by including a blank alongside the positive control sample.

8. Perform a systems check on the transmission electron microscope daily.

9. Make periodic performance checks of magnification, electron diffraction and energy dispersive X-ray systems as set forth in Table III of Unit III.K.

10. Ensure qualified operator performance by evaluation of replicate counting, duplicate analysis, and standard sample comparisons as set forth in Table III of Unit III.K.

11. Validate all data entries.

12. Recalculate a percentage of all computations and automatic data reduction steps as specified in Table III.

13. Record an electron diffraction pattern of one asbestos structure from every five samples that contain asbestos. Verify the identification of the pattern by measurement or comparison of the pattern with patterns collected from standards under the same conditions.

For additional background information on this method the following references should be consulted.

1. "Guidelines for Controlling Asbestos-Containing Materials in Buildings," EPA 560/5-85-024, June 1985.

2. "Measuring Airborne Asbestos Following an Abatement Action," USEP/Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, EPA 600/4-85-049, 1985.

3. Small, John and E. Steel. Asbestos Standards: Materials and Analytical Methods. N.B.S. Special Publication 619, 1982.

4. Campbell, W.J., R.L. Blake, L.L. Brown, E.E. Cather, and J.J. Sjoberg. Selected Silicate Minerals and Their Asbestiform Varieties. Information Circular 8751, U.S. Bureau of Mines, 1977.

5. Quality Assurance Handbook for Air Pollution Measurement System. Ambient Air Methods, EPA 600/4-77-027a, USEPA, Office of Research and Development, 1977.

6. Method 2A: Direct Measurement of Gas Volume Through Pipes and Small Ducts. 40 CFR Part 60 Appendix A.

7. Burdette, G.J. Health & Safety Exec., Research & Lab. Services Div., London, "Proposed Analytical Method for Determination of Asbestos in Air."

8. Chatfield, E.J., Chatfield Tech. Cons., Ltd., Clark, T., PEI Assoc. "Standard Operating Procedure for Determination of Airborne Asbestos Fibers by Transmission Electron Microscopy Using Polycarbonate Membrane Filters." WERL SOP 87-1, March 5, 1987.

9. NIOSH. Method 7402 for Asbestos Fibers, December 11, 1986 Draft.

10. Yamate, G., S.C. Agarwall, R.D. Gibbons, IIT Research Institute, "Methodology for the Measurement of Airborne Asbestos by Electron Microscopy." Draft report, USEPA Contract 68-02-3266, July 1984.

11. Guidance to the Preparation of Quality Assurance Project Plans. USEPA, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, 1984.

A response action is determined to be completed by TEM when the abatement area has been cleaned and the airborne asbestos concentration inside the abatement area is no higher than concentrations at locations outside the abatement area. "Outside" means outside the abatement area, but not necessarily outside the building. EPA reasons that an asbestos removal contractor cannot be expected to clean an abatement area to an airborne asbestos concentration that is lower than the concentration of air entering the abatement area from outdoors or from other parts of the building. After the abatement area has passed a thorough visual inspection, and before the outer containment barrier is removed, a minimum of five air samples inside the abatement area and a minimum of five air samples outside the abatement area must be collected. Hence, the response action is determined to be completed when the average airborne asbestos concentration measured inside the abatement area is not statistically different from the average airborne asbestos concentration measured outside the abatement area.

The inside and outside concentrations are compared by the Z-test, a statistical test that takes into account the variability in the measurement process. A minimum of five samples inside the abatement area and five samples outside the abatement area are required to control the false negative error rate, i.e., the probability of declaring the removal complete when, in fact, the air concentration inside the abatement area is significantly higher than outside the abatement area. Additional quality control is provided by requiring three blanks (filters through which no air has been drawn) to be analyzed to check for unusually high filter contamination that would distort the test results.

When volumes greater than or equal to 1,199 L for a 25 mm filter and 2,799 L for a 37 mm filter have been collected and the average number of asbestos structures on samples inside the abatement area is no greater than 70 s/mmof filter, the response action may be considered complete without comparing the inside samples to the outside samples. EPA is permitting this initial screening test to save analysis costs in situations where the airborne asbestos concentration is sufficiently low so that it cannot be distinguished from the filter contamination/background level (fibers deposited on the filter that are unrelated to the air being sampled). The screening test cannot be used when volumes of less than 1,199 L for 25 mm filter or 2,799 L for a 37 mm filter are collected because the ability to distinguish levels significantly different from filter background is reduced at low volumes.

The initial screening test is expressed in structures per square millimeter of filter because filter background levels come from sources other than the air being sampled and cannot be meaningfully expressed as a concentration per cubic centimeter of air. The value of 70 s/mmis based on the experience of the panel of microscopists who consider one structure in 10 grid openings (each grid opening with an area of 0.0057 mm) to be comparable with contamination/background levels of blank filters. The decision is based, in part, on Poisson statistics which indicate that four structures must be counted on a filter before the fiber count is statistically distinguishable from the count for one structure. As more information on the performance of the method is collected, this criterion may be modified. Since different combinations of the number and size of grid openings are permitted under the TEM protocol, the criterion is expressed in structures per square millimeter of filter to be consistent across all combinations. Four structures per 10 grid openings corresponds to approximately 70 s/mm.

1. A minimum of 13 samples is required: five samples collected inside the abatement area, five samples collected outside the abatement area, two field blanks, and one sealed blank.

2. Sampling and TEM analysis must be done according to either the mandatory or nonmandatory protocols in Appendix A. At least 0.057 mmof filter must be examined on blank filters.

1. The response action shall be considered complete if either:

a. Each sample collected inside the abatement area consists of at least 1,199 L of air for a 25 mm filter, or 2,799 L of air for a 37 mm filter, and the arithmetic mean of their asbestos structure concentrations per square millimeter of filter is less than or equal to 70 s/mm; or

b. The three blank samples have an arithmetic mean of the asbestos structure concentration on the blank filters that is less than or equal to 70 s/mmand the average airborne asbestos concentration measured inside the abatement area is not statistically higher than the average airborne asbestos concentration measured outside the abatement area as determined by the Z-test. The Z-test is carried out by calculating

2. If the abatement site does not satisfy either (1) or (2) of this Section C, the site must be recleaned and a new set of samples collected.

It is possible to determine completion of the response action without analyzing all samples. Also, at any point in the process, a decision may be made to terminate the analysis of existing samples, reclean the abatement site, and collect a new set of samples. The following sequence is outlined to minimize the number of analyses needed to reach a decision.

1. Analyze the inside samples.

2. If at least 1,199 L of air for a 25 mm filter or 2,799 L of air for a 37 mm filter is collected for each inside sample and the arithmetic mean concentration of structures per square millimeter of filter is less than or equal to 70 s/mm, the response action is complete and no further analysis is needed.

3. If less than 1,199 L of air for a 25 mm filter or 2,799 L of air for a 37 mm filter is collected for any of the inside samples, or the arithmetic mean concentration of structures per square millimeter of filter is greater than 70 s/mm, analyze the three blanks.

4. If the arithmetic mean concentration of structures per square millimeter on the blank filters is greater than 70 s/mm, terminate the analysis, identify and correct the source of blank contamination, and collect a new set of samples.

5. If the arithmetic mean concentration of structures per square millimeter on the blank filters is less than or equal to 70 s/mm, analyze the outside samples and perform the Z-test.

6. If the Z-statistic is less than or equal to 1.65, the response action is complete. If the Z-statistic is greater than 1.65, reclean the abatement site and collect a new set of samples.
