
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix C to Subpart E of Part 763 - Asbestos Model Accreditation Plan
####### Course review.

(k)A review of key aspects of the training course.

A person must be accredited as a contractor/supervisor to supervise any of the following activities with respect to friable ACBM in a school or public and commercial building: (1) A response action other than a SSSD activity, (2) a maintenance activity that disturbs friable ACBM other than a SSSD activity, or (3) a response action for a major fiber release episode. All persons seeking accreditation as asbestos abatement contractor/supervisors shall complete at least a 5-day training course as outlined below. The training course must include lectures, demonstrations, at least 14 hours of hands-on training, individual respirator fit testing, course review, and a written examination. Hands-on training must permit supervisors to have actual experience performing tasks associated with asbestos abatement.

EPA recommends the use of audiovisual materials to complement lectures, where appropriate.

Asbestos abatement supervisors include those persons who provide supervision and direction to workers performing response actions. Supervisors may include those individuals with the position title of foreman, working foreman, or leadman pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. At least one supervisor is required to be at the worksite at all times while response actions are being conducted. Asbestos workers must have access to accredited supervisors throughout the duration of the project.

The contractor/supervisor training course shall adequately address the following topics:
