
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix D to Subpart E of Part 763 - Transport and Disposal of Asbestos Waste
####### Waste transport.

Although there are no regulatory specifications regarding the transport vehicle, it is recommended that vehicles used for transport of containerized asbestos waste have an enclosed carrying compartment or utilize a canvas covering sufficient to contain the transported waste, prevent damage to containers, and prevent fiber release. Transport of large quantities of asbestos waste is commonly conducted in a 20-cubic-yard "roll off" box, which should also be covered. Vehicles that use compactors to reduce waste volume should not be used because these will cause the waste containers to rupture. Vacuum trucks used to transport waste slurry must be inspected to ensure that water is not leaking from the truck.

Disposal involves the isolation of asbestos waste material in order to prevent fiber release to air or water. Landfilling is recommended as an environmentally sound isolation method because asbestos fibers are virtually immobile in soil. Other disposal techniques such as incineration or chemical treatment are not feasible due to the unique properties of asbestos. EPA has established asbestos disposal requirements for active and inactive disposal sites under NESHAPs (40 CFR Part 61, subpart M) and specifies general requirements for solid waste disposal under RCRA (40 CFR Part 257). Advance EPA notification of the intended disposal site is required by NESHAPs.
