
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix D to Subpart E of Part 763 - Transport and Disposal of Asbestos Waste
####### Waste deposition and covering.

Recognizing the health dangers associated with asbestos exposure, the following procedures are recommended to augment current federal requirements:

- Designate a separate area for asbestos waste disposal. Provide a record for future landowners that asbestos waste has been buried there and that it would be hazardous to attempt to excavate that area. (Future regulations may require property deeds to identify the location of any asbestos wastes and warn against excavation.)

- Prepare a separate trench to receive asbestos wastes. The size of the trench will depend upon the quantity and frequency of asbestos waste delivered to the disposal site. The trenching technique allows application of soil cover without disturbing the asbestos waste containers. The trench should be ramped to allow the transport vehicle to back into it, and the trench should be as narrow as possible to reduce the amount of cover required. If possible, the trench should be aligned perpendicular to prevailing winds.

- Place the asbestos waste containers into the trench carefully to avoid breaking them. Be particularly careful with plastic bags because when they break under pressure asbestos particles can be emitted.

- Completely cover the containerized waste within 24 hours with a minimum of 6 inches of nonasbestos material. Improperly containerized waste is a violation of the NESHAPs and EPA should be notified.

However, if improperly containerized waste is received at the disposal site, it should be covered immediately after unloading. Only after the wastes, including properly containerized wastes, are completely covered, can the wastes be compacted or other heavy equipment run over it. During compacting, avoid exposing wastes to the air or tracking asbestos material away from the trench.

- For final closure of an area containing asbestos waste, cover with at least an additional 30 inches of compacted nonasbestos material to provide a 36-inch final cover. To control erosion of the final cover, it should be properly graded and vegetated. In areas of the United States where excessive soil erosion may occur or the frost line exceeds 3 feet, additional final cover is recommended. In desert areas where vegetation would be difficult to maintain, 3-6 inches of well graded crushed rock is recommended for placement on top of the final cover.
