
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix D to Subpart E of Part 763 - Transport and Disposal of Asbestos Waste
####### Waste handling.

A transporter should ensure that the asbestos waste is properly contained in leak-tight containers with appropriate labels, and that the outside surfaces of the containers are not contaminated with asbestos debris adhering to the containers. If there is reason to believe that the condition of the asbestos waste may allow significant fiber release, the transporter should not accept the waste. Improper containerization of wastes is a violation of the NESHAPs regulation and should be reported to the appropriate EPA Regional Asbestos NESHAPs contact below:

Asbestos NESHAPs Contact, Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Division, USEPA, Region I, 5 Post Office Square-Suite 100 (05-4), Boston, MA 02109-3912, (617) 918-1739.

Asbestos NESHAPs Contact, Air & Waste Management Division, USEPA, Region II, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10007, (212) 264-6770.

Asbestos NESHAPs Contact, Air Management Division, USEPA, Region III, 841 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107, (215) 597-9325.

Asbestos NESHAPs Contact, Air, Pesticide & Toxic Management, USEPA, Region IV, 345 Courtland Street, NE., Atlanta, GA 30365, (404) 347-4298.

Asbestos NESHAPs Contact, Air Management Division, USEPA, Region V, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604, (312) 353-6793.

Asbestos NESHAP Contact, Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Division, USEPA Region VI, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Mail Code 6ECD, Dallas, Texas 75270-2102, (214) 655-2760.

Asbestos NESHAPs Contact, Air and Waste Management Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 7, 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, Kansas 66219. (800) 223-0425 or (913) 551-7122.

Asbestos NESHAPs Contact, Air & Waste Management Division, USEPA, Region VIII, 999 18th Street, Suite 500, Denver, CO 80202, (303) 293-1814.

Asbestos NESHAPs Contact, Air Division, USEPA, Region IX, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105, (415) 972-3989.

Asbestos NESHAPs Contact, Air & Toxics Management Division, USEPA, Region X, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, WA 98101, (206) 442-2724.

Once the transporter is satisfied with the condition of the asbestos waste and agrees to handle it, the containers should be loaded into the transport vehicle in a careful manner to prevent breaking of the containers. Similarly, at the disposal site, the asbestos waste containers should be transferred carefully to avoid fiber release.
