
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Method of the Determination of Asbestos in Bulk Insulation Samples

Bulk samples of building materials taken for asbestos identification are first examined for homogeneity and preliminary fiber identification at low magnification. Positive identification of suspect fibers is made by analysis of subsamples with the polarized light microscope.

The principles of optical mineralogy are well established.A light microscope equipped with two polarizing filters is used to observe specific optical characteristics of a sample. The use of plane polarized light allows the determination of refractive indices along specific crystallographic axes. Morphology and color are also observed. A retardation plate is placed in the polarized light path for determination of the sign of elongation using orthoscopic illumination. Orientation of the two filters such that their vibration planes are perpendicular (crossed polars) allows observation of the birefringence and extinction characteristics of anisotropic particles.

Quantitative analysis involves the use of point counting. Point counting is a standard technique in petrography for determining the relative areas occupied by separate minerals in thin sections of rock. Background information on the use of point countingand the interpretation of point count datais available.

This method is applicable to all bulk samples of friable insulation materials submitted for identification and quantitation of asbestos components.

The point counting method may be used for analysis of samples containing from 0 to 100 percent asbestos. The upper detection limit is 100 percent. The lower detection limit is less than 1 percent.

Fibrous organic and inorganic constituents of bulk samples may interfere with the identification and quantitation of the asbestos mineral content. Spray-on binder materials may coat fibers and affect color or obscure optical characteristics to the extent of masking fiber identity. Fine particles of other materials may also adhere to fibers to an extent sufficient to cause confusion in identification. Procedures that may be used for the removal of interferences are presented in Section 1.7.2.2.
