
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Method of the Determination of Asbestos in Bulk Insulation Samples
####### Refractive Index Liquids:

1.490-1.570, 1.590-1.720 in increments of 0.002 or 0.004.

Samples for analysis of asbestos content shall be taken in the manner prescribed in Reference 5 and information on design of sampling and analysis programs may be found in Reference 6. If there are any questions about the representative nature of the sample, another sample should be requested before proceeding with the analysis.

Bulk samples of building materials taken for the identification and quantitation of asbestos are first examined for homogeneity at low magnification with the aid of a stereomicroscope. The core sample may be examined in its container or carefully removed from the container onto a glassine transfer paper or clean glass plate. If possible, note is made of the top and bottom orientation. When discrete strata are identified, each is treated as a separate material so that fibers are first identified and quantified in that layer only, and then the results for each layer are combined to yield an estimate of asbestos content for the whole sample.

Bulk materials submitted for asbestos analysis involve a wide variety of matrix materials. Representative subsamples may not be readily obtainable by simple means in heterogeneous materials, and various steps may be required to alleviate the difficulties encountered. In most cases, however, the best preparation is made by using forceps to sample at several places from the bulk material. Forcep samples are immersed in a refractive index liquid on a microscope slide, teased apart, covered with a cover glass, and observed with the polarized light microscope.

Alternatively, attempts may be made to homogenize the sample or eliminate interferences before further characterization. The selection of appropriate procedures is dependent upon the samples encountered and personal preference. The following are presented as possible sample preparation steps.

A mortar and pestle can sometimes be used in the size reduction of soft or loosely bound materials though this may cause matting of some samples. Such samples may be reduced in a Wylie mill. Apparatus should be clean and extreme care exercised to avoid cross-contamination of samples. Periodic checks of the particle sizes should be made during the grinding operation so as to preserve any fiber bundles present in an identifiable form. These procedures are not recommended for samples that contain amphibole minerals or vermiculite. Grinding of amphiboles may result in the separation of fiber bundles or the production of cleavage fragments with aspect ratios greater than 3:1. Grinding of vermiculite may also produce fragments with aspect ratios greater than 3:1.

Acid treatment may occasionally be required to eliminate interferences. Calcium carbonate, gypsum, and bassanite (plaster) are frequently present in sprayed or trowelled insulations. These materials may be removed by treatment with warm dilute acetic acid. Warm dilute hydrochloric acid may also be used to remove the above materials. If acid treatment is required, wash the sample at least twice with distilled water, being careful not to lose the particulates during decanting steps. Centrifugation or filtration of the suspension will prevent significant fiber loss. The pore size of the filter should be 0.45 micron or less. Caution: prolonged acid contact with the sample may alter the optical characteristics of chrysotile fibers and should be avoided.

Coatings and binding materials adhering to fiber surfaces may also be removed by treatment with sodium metaphosphate.Add 10 mL of 10g/L sodium metaphosphate solution to a small (0.1 to 0.5 mL) sample of bulk material in a 15-mL glass centrifuge tube. For approximately 15 seconds each, stir the mixture on a vortex mixer, place in an ultrasonic bath and then shake by hand. Repeat the series. Collect the dispersed solids by centrifugation at 1000 rpm for 5 minutes. Wash the sample three times by suspending in 10 mL distilled water and recentrifuging. After washing, resuspend the pellet in 5 mL distilled water, place a drop of the suspension on a microscope slide, and dry the slide at 110 &#xB0;C.

In samples with a large portion of cellulosic or other organic fibers, it may be useful to ash part of the sample and view the residue. Ashing should be performed in a low temperature asher. Ashing may also be performed in a muffle furnace at temperatures of 500 &#xB0;C or lower. Temperatures of 550 &#xB0;C or higher will cause dehydroxylation of the asbestos minerals, resulting in changes of the refractive index and other key parameters. If a muffle furnace is to be used, the furnace thermostat should be checked and calibrated to ensure that samples will not be heated at temperatures greater than 550 &#xB0;C.

Ashing and acid treatment of samples should not be used as standard procedures. In order to monitor possible changes in fiber characteristics, the material should be viewed microscopically before and after any sample preparation procedure. Use of these procedures on samples to be used for quantitation requires a correction for percent weight loss.

Positive identification of asbestos requires the determination of the following optical properties.

Asbestos quantitation is performed by a point-counting procedure or an equivalent estimation method. An ocular reticle (cross-hair or point array) is used to visually superimpose a point or points on the microscope field of view. Record the number of points positioned directly above each kind of particle or fiber of interest. Score only points directly over asbestos fibers or nonasbestos matrix material. Do not score empty points for the closest particle. If an asbestos fiber and a matrix particle overlap so that a point is superimposed on their visual intersection, a point is scored for both categories. Point counting provides a determination of the area percent asbestos. Reliable conversion of area percent to percent of dry weight is not currently feasible unless the specific gravities and relative volumes of the materials are known.

For the purpose of this method, "asbestos fibers" are defined as having an aspect ratio greater than 3:1 and being positively identified as one of the minerals in Table 1-1.

A total of 400 points superimposed on either asbestos fibers or nonasbestos matrix material must be counted over at least eight different preparations of representative subsamples. Take eight forcep samples and mount each separately with the appropriate refractive index liquid. The preparation should not be heavily loaded. The sample should be uniformly dispersed to avoid overlapping particles and allow 25-50 percent empty area within the fields of view. Count 50 nonempty points on each preparation, using either

The percent asbestos is calculated as follows:

If a = 0, report "No asbestos detected." If 0<a&#x2264;3, report "<1% asbestos".

The value reported should be rounded to the nearest percent.
