
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Method of the Determination of Asbestos in Bulk Insulation Samples
####### quantitative analysis,semiquantitative analysis.

Accurateof asbestos in bulk samples by XRD is critically dependent on particle size distribution, crystallite size, preferred orientation and matrix absorption effects, and comparability of standard reference and sample materials. The most intense diffraction peak that has been shown to be free from interference by prior qualitative XRD analysis is selected for quantitation of each asbestiform mineral. A "thin-layer" method of analysisis recommended in which, subsequent to comminution of the bulk material to ∼10 µm by suitable cryogenic milling techniques, an accurately known amount of the sample is deposited on a silver membrane filter. The mass of asbestiform material is determined by measuring the integrated area of the selected diffraction peak using a step-scanning mode, correcting for matrix absorption effects, and comparing with suitable calibration standards. Alternative "thick-layer" or bulk methods,may be used for

This XRD method is applicable as a confirmatory method for identification and quantitation of asbestos in bulk material samples that have undergone prior analysis by PLM or other optical methods.

The range of the method has not been determined.

The sensitivity of the method has not been determined. It will be variable and dependent upon many factors, including matrix effects (absoprtion and interferences), diagnostic reflections selected, and their relative intensities.

Since the fibrous and nonfibrous forms of the serpentine and amphibole minerals (Table 2-1) are indistinguishable by XRD techniques unless special sample preparation techniques and instrumentation are used,the presence of nonasbestiform serpentines and amphiboles in a sample will pose severe interference problems in the identification and quantitative analysis of their asbestiform analogs.

The use of XRD for identification and quantitation of asbestiform minerals in bulk samples may also be limited by the presence of other interfering materials in the sample. For naturally occurring materials the commonly associated asbestos-related mineral interferences can usually be anticipated. However, for fabricated materials the nature of the interferences may vary greatly (Table 2-3) and present more serious problems in identification and quantitation.Potential interferences are summarized in Table 2-4 and include the following:

Chrysotile

"Amosite"

Crocidolite

*Rock wool

*Slag wool

*Fiber glass

Gypsum (CaSO&#xB7; 2HO)

Vermiculite (micas)

*Perlite

Clays (kaolin)

*Wood pulp

*Paper fibers (talc, clay, carbonate fillers)

Calcium silicates (synthetic)

Opaques (chromite, magnetite inclusions in serpentine)

Hematite (inclusions in "amosite")

Magnesite

*Diatomaceous earth

Bassanite

Carbonate minerals (calcite, dolomite, vaterite)

Talc

Tremolite

Anthophyllite

Serpentine (including chrysotile)

Amosite

Crocidolite

*Mineral wool

*Rock wool

*Slag wool

*Fiber glass

Clays (kaolin)

Micas

Chlorite

Gypsum (CaSO&#xB7; 2HO)

Quartz

*Organic binders and thickeners

Hyrdomagnesite

Wollastonite

Opaques (chromite, magnetite inclusions in serpentine)

Hematite (inclusions in "amosite")

*Amorphous materials____contribute only to overall scattered radiation and increased background radiation.

The problem of intraspecies and matrix interferences is further aggravated by the variability of the silicate mineral powder diffraction patterns themselves, which often makes definitive identification of the asbestos minerals by comparison with standard reference diffraction patterns difficult. This variability results from alterations in the crystal lattice associated with differences in isomorphous substitution and degree of crystallinity. This is especially true for the amphiboles. These minerals exhibit a wide variety of very similar chemical compositions, with the result being that their diffraction patterns are chracterized by having major (110) reflections of the monoclinic amphiboles and (210) reflections of the orthorhombic anthophyllite separated by less than 0.2 &#xC5;.

If a copper X-ray source is used, the presence of iron at high concentrations in a sample will result in significant X-ray fluorescence, leading to loss of peak intensity along with increased background intensity and an overall decrease in sensitivity. This situation may be corrected by choosing an X-ray source other than copper; however, this is often accompanied both by loss of intensity and by decreased resolution of closely spaced reflections. Alternatively, use of a diffracted beam monochromator will reduce background fluorescent raditation, enabling weaker diffraction peaks to be detected.

X-ray absorption by the sample matrix will result in overall attenuation of the diffracted beam and may seriously interfere with quantitative analysis. Absorption effects may be minimized by using sufficiently "thin" samples for analysis.However, unless absorption effects are known to be the same for both samples and standards, appropriate corrections should be made by referencing diagnostic peak areas to an internal standardor filter substrate (Ag) peak.

Because the intensity of diffracted X-radiation is particle-size dependent, it is essential for accurate quantitative analysis that both sample and standard reference materials have similar particle size distributions. The optimum particle size range for quantitative analysis of asbestos by XRD has been reported to be 1 to 10 µm.Comparability of sample and standard reference material particle size distributions should be verified by optical microscopy (or another suitable method) prior to analysis.

Preferred orientation of asbestiform minerals during sample preparation often poses a serious problem in quantitative analysis by XRD. A number of techniques have been developed for reducing preferred orientation effects in "thick layer" samples.However, for "thin" samples on membrane filters, the preferred orientation effects seem to be both reproducible and favorable to enhancement of the principal diagnostic reflections of asbestos minerals, actually increasing the overall sensitivity of the method.(Further investigation into preferred orientation effects in both thin layer and bulk samples is required.)

The problem of obtaining and characterizing suitable reference materials for asbestos analysis is clearly recognized. NIOSH has recently directed a major research effort toward the preparation and characterization of analytical reference materials, including asbestos standards;however, these are not available in large quantities for routine analysis.

In addition, the problem of ensuring the comparability of standard reference and sample materials, particularly regarding crystallite size, particle size distribution, and degree of crystallinity, has yet to be adequately addressed. For example, Langer et al.have observed that in insulating matrices, chrysotile tends to break open into bundles more frequently than amphiboles. This results in a line-broadening effect with a resultant decrease in sensitivity. Unless this effect is the same for both standard and sample materials, the amount of chrysotile in the sample will be underestimated by XRD analysis. To minimize this problem, it is recommended that standardized matrix reduction procedures be used for both sample and standard materials.

Precision of the method has not been determined.

Accuracy of the method has not been determined.

Sample preparation apparatus requirements will depend upon the sample type under consideration and the kind of XRD analysis to be performed.

Sample analysis requirements include an X-ray diffraction unit, equipped with:

The reference materials listed below are intended to serve as a guide. Every attempt should be made to acquire pure reference materials that are comparable to sample materials being analyzed.

Tape, petroleum jelly, etc. (for attaching silver membrane filters to sample holders).

1 percent aerosol OT aqueous solution or equivalent.

ACS Reagent Grade.
