
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Method of the Determination of Asbestos in Bulk Insulation Samples
####### Initial screening of bulk material-

2.7.2.2.1Qualitative analysis should be performed on a representative, homogeneous portion of the sample with a minimum of sample treatment.

1. Grind and mix the sample with a mortar and pestle (or equivalent method, see Section 2.7.2.1.1.) to a final particle size sufficiently small (∼100 µm) to allow adequate packing into the sample holder.

2. Pack the sample into a standard bulk sample holder. Care should be taken to ensure that a representative portion of the milled sample is selected for analysis. Particular care should be taken to avoid possible size segregation of the sample. (Note: Use of a back-packing methodof bulk sample preparation may reduce preferred orientation effects.)

3. Mount the sample on the diffractometer and scan over the diagnostic peak regions for the serpentine (∼67.4 &#xC5;) and amphibole (8.2-8.5 &#xC5;) minerals (see Table 2-2). The X-ray diffraction equipment should be optimized for intensity. A slow scanning speed of 1&#xB0; 2/min is recommended for adequate resolution. Use of a sample spinner is recommended.

4. Submit all samples that exhibit diffraction peaks in the diagnostic regions for asbestiform minerals to a full qualitative XRD scan (5&#xB0;-60&#xB0; 2; 1&#xB0;2/min) to verify initial peak assignments and to identify potential matrix interferences when subsequent quantitative analysis is to be performed.

5. Compare the sample XRD pattern with standard reference powder diffraction patterns (i.e., JCPDS powder diffraction dataor those of other well-characterized reference materials). Principal lattice spacings of asbestiform minerals are given in Table 2-2; common constituents of bulk insulation and wall materials are listed in Table 2-3.
