
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Method of the Determination of Asbestos in Bulk Insulation Samples
####### Detection of minor or trace constituents-

2.7.2.2.2Routine screening of bulk materials by XRD may fail to detect small concentrations (<5 percent) of asbestos. The limits of detection will, in general, be improved if matrix absorption effects are minimized, and if the sample particle size is reduced to the optimal 1 to 10 µm range, provided that the crystal lattice is not degraded in the milling process. Therefore, in those instances where confirmation of the presence of an asbestiform mineral at very low levels is required, or where a negative result from initial screening of the bulk material by XRD (see Section 2.7.2.2.1) is in conflict with previous PLM results, it may be desirable to prepare the sample as described for quantitative analysis (see Section 2.7.2.3) and step-scan over appropriate 2ranges of selected diagnostic peaks (Table 2-2). Accurate transfer of the sample to the silver membrane filter is not necessary unless subsequent quantitative analysis is to be performed.

The proposed method for quantitation of asbestos in bulk samples is a modification of the NIOSH-recommended thin-layer method for chrysotile in air.A thick-layer or bulk method involving pelletizing the sample may be used for semiquantitative analysis;however, this method requires the addition of an internal standard, use of a specially fabricated sample press, and relatively large amounts of standard reference materials. Additional research is required to evaluate the comparability of thin- and thick-layer methods for quantitative asbestos analysis.

For quantitative analysis by thin-layer methods, the following procedure is recommended:

1. Mill and size all or a substantial representative portion of the sample as outlined in Section 2.7.2.1.1.

2. Dry at 100 &#xB0;C for 2 hr; cool in a desiccator.

3. Weigh accurately to the nearest 0.01 mg.

4. Samples shown by PLM to contain large amounts of cellulosic or other organic materials, gypsum, or carbonates, should be submitted to appropriate matrix reduction procedures described in Sections 2.7.2.1.2 and 2.7.2.1.3. After ashing and/or acid treatment, repeat the drying and weighing procedures described above, and determine the percent weight loss; L.

5. Quantitatively transfer an accurately weighed amount (50-100 mg) of the sample to a 1-L volumetric flask with approximately 200 mL isopropanol to which 3 to 4 drops of surfactant have been added.

6. Ultrasonicate for 10 min at a power density of approximately 0.1 W/mL, to disperse the sample material.

7. Dilute to volume with isopropanol.

8. Place flask on a magnetic stirring plate. Stir.

9. Place a silver membrane filter on the filtration apparatus, apply a vacuum, and attach the reservoir. Release the vacuum and add several milliliters of isopropanol to the reservoir. Vigorously hand shake the asbestos suspension and immediately withdraw an aliquot from the center of the suspension so that total sample weight, W, on the filter will be approximately 1 mg. Do not adjust the volume in the pipet by expelling part of the suspension; if more than the desired aliquot is withdrawn, discard the aliquot and resume the procedure with a clean pipet. Transfer the aliquot to the reservoir. Filter rapidly under vacuum. Do not wash the reservoir walls. Leave the filter apparatus under vacuum until dry. Remove the reservoir, release the vacuum, and remove the filter with forceps. (Note: Water-soluble matrix interferences such as gypsum may be removed at this time by careful washing of the filtrate with distilled water. Extreme care should be taken not to disturb the sample.)

10. Attach the filter to a flat holder with a suitable adhesive and place on the diffractometer. Use of a sample spinner is recommended.

11. For each asbestos mineral to be quantitated select a reflection (or reflections) that has been shown to be free from interferences by prior PLM or qualitative XRD analysis and that can be used unambiguously as an index of the amount of material present in the sample (see Table 2-2).

12. Analyze the selected diagnostic reflection(s) by step scanning in increments of 0.02&#xB0; 2for an appropriate fixed time and integrating the counts. (A fixed count scan may be used alternatively; however, the method chosen should be used consistently for all samples and standards.) An appropriate scanning interval should be selected for each peak, and background corrections made. For a fixed time scan, measure the background on each side of the peak for one-half the peak-scanning time. The net intensity, I, is the difference between the peak integrated count and the total background count.
