
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart E - Asbestos-Containing Materials in Schools
###### Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 763 - Interim Method of the Determination of Asbestos in Bulk Insulation Samples
####### Equivalent, standardized matrix reduction and sizing techniques should be used for both standard and sample materials.

1. Mill and size standard asbestos materials according to the procedure outlined in Section 2.7.2.1.1.

2. Dry at 100 &#xB0;C for 2 hr; cool in a desiccator.

3. Prepare two suspensions of each standard in isopropanol by weighing approximately 10 and 50 mg of the dry material to the nearest 0.01 mg. Quantitatively transfer each to a 1-L volumetric flask with approximately 200 mL isopropanol to which a few drops of surfactant have been added.

4. Ultrasonicate for 10 min at a power density of approximately 0.1 W/mL, to disperse the asbestos material.

5. Dilute to volume with isopropanol.

6. Place the flask on a magnetic stirring plate. Stir.

7. Prepare, in triplicate, a series of at least five standard filters to cover the desired analytical range, using appropriate aliquots of the 10 and 50 mg/L suspensions and the following procedure.

Mount a silver membrane filter on the filtration apparatus. Place a few milliliters of isopropanol in the reservoir. Vigorously hand shake the asbestos suspension and immediately withdraw an aliquot from the center of the suspension. Do not adjust the volume in the pipet by expelling part of the suspension; if more than the desired aliquot is withdrawn, discard the aliquot and resume the procedure with a clean pipet. Transfer the aliquot to the reservoir. Keep the tip of the pipet near the surface of the isopropanol. Filter rapidly under vacuum. Do not wash the sides of the reservoir. Leave the vacuum on for a time sufficient to dry the filter. Release the vacuum and remove the filter with forceps.

1. Mount each filter on a flat holder. Perform step scans on selected diagnostic reflections of the standards and reference specimen using the procedure outlined in Section 2.7.2.3, step 12, and the same conditions as those used for the samples.

2. Determine the normalized intensity for each peak measured, &#xCE;, as outlined in Section 2.7.2.3, step 14.

For each asbestos reference material, calculate the exact weight deposited on each standard filter from the concentrations of the standard suspensions and aliquot volumes. Record the weight, w, of each standard. Prepare a calibration curve by regressing &#xCE;2on w. Poor reproducibility (+/-15 percent RSD) at any given level indicates problems in the sample preparation technique, and a need for new standards. The data should fit a straight line equation.

Determine the slope, m, of the calibration curve in counts/microgram. The intercept, b, of the line with the &#xCE;axis should be approximately zero. A large negative intercept indicates an error in determining the background. This may arise from incorrectly measuring the baseline or from interference by another phase at the angle of background measurement. A large positive intercept indicates an error in determining the baseline or that an impurity is included in the measured peak.

Using the normalized intensity, &#xCE;, for the attenuated silver peak of a sample, and the corresponding normalized intensity from the unattenuated silver peak, &#xCE;, of the sample filter, calculate the transmittance, T, for each sample as follows:

Determine the correction factor, f(T), for each sample according to the formula:

Calculate the weight, W, in micrograms, of the asbestos material analyzed for in each sample, using the appropriate calibration data and absorption corrections:

Calculate the percent composition, P, of each asbestos mineral analyzed for in the parent material, from the total sample weight, W, on the filter:
