
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart I - Prohibition of the Manufacture, Importation, Processing, and Distribution in Commerce of Certain Asbestos-Containing Products; Labeling Requirements
###### ยง 763.171 Labeling requirements.

(a) After August 27, 1990, manufacturers, importers, and processors of all asbestos-containing products that are identified in ยง 763.165(a) shall label the products as specified in this subpart at the time of manufacture, import, or processing. This requirement includes labeling all manufacturers', importers', and processors' stock-on-hand as of August 27, 1990.

(b) After August 25, 1995, manufacturers, importers, and processors of all asbestos-containing products that are identified in ยง 763.165(b), shall label the products as specified in this subpart at the time of manufacture, import, or processing. This requirement includes labeling all manufacturers', importers', and processors' stock-on-hand as of August 25, 1995.

(c) The label shall be placed directly on the visible exterior of the wrappings and packaging in which the product is placed for sale, shipment, or storage. If the product has more than one layer of external wrapping or packaging, the label must be attached to the innermost layer adjacent to the product. If the innermost layer of product wrapping or packaging does not have a visible exterior surface larger than 5 square inches, either a tag meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section must be securely attached to the product's innermost layer of product wrapping or packaging, or a label must be attached to the next outer layer of product packaging or wrapping. Any products that are distributed in commerce to someone other than the end user, shipped, or stored without packaging or wrapping must be labeled or tagged directly on a visible exterior surface of the product as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d)(1) Labels must be either printed directly on product packaging or in the form of a sticker or tag made of plastic, paper, metal, or other durable substances. Labels must be attached in such a manner that they cannot be removed without defacing or destroying them. Product labels shall appear as in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and consist of block letters and numerals of color that contrasts with the background of the label or tag. Labels shall be sufficiently durable to equal or exceed the life, including storage and disposal, of the product packaging or wrapping. The size of the label or tag must be at least 15.25 cm (6 inches) on each side. If the product packaging is too small to accommodate a label of this size, the label may be reduced in size proportionately to the size of the product packaging or wrapping down to a minimum 2.5 cm (1 inch) on each side if the product wrapping or packaging has a visible exterior surface larger than 5 square inches.

(2) Products subject to this subpart shall be labeled in English as follows:

(e) No one may intentionally remove, deface, cover, or otherwise obscure or tamper with a label or sticker that has been applied in compliance with this section, except when the product is used or disposed of.
