
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 763 - ASBESTOS
##### Subpart I - Prohibition of the Manufacture, Importation, Processing, and Distribution in Commerce of Certain Asbestos-Containing Products; Labeling Requirements
###### § 763.173 Exemptions.

(a) Persons who are subject to the prohibitions imposed by § 763.165, § 763.167, or § 763.169 may file an application for an exemption. Persons whose exemption applications are approved by the Agency may manufacture, import, process, or distribute in commerce the banned product as specified in the Agency's approval of the application. No applicant for an exemption may continue the banned activity that is the subject of an exemption application after the effective date of the ban unless the Agency has granted the exemption or the applicant receives an extension under paragraph (b)(4) or (5) of this section.

(b) Application filing dates. (1) Applications for products affected by the prohibitions under §§ 763.165(a) and 763.167(a) may be submitted at any time and will be either granted or denied by EPA as soon as is feasible.

(2) Applications for products affected by the ban under § 763.169(a) may be submitted at any time and will be either granted or denied by EPA as soon as is feasible.

(3) Applications for products affected by the ban under §§ 763.165(b) and 763.167(b) may not be submitted prior to February 27, 1995. Complete applications received after that date, but before August 25, 1995, will be either granted or denied by the Agency prior to the effective date of the ban for the product. Applications received after August 25, 1995, will be either granted or denied by EPA as soon as is feasible.

(4) Applications for products affected by the ban under § 763.169(b) may not be submitted prior to February 26, 1996. Complete applications received after that date, but before August 26, 1996, will be either granted or denied by the Agency prior to the effective date of the ban for the product. Applications received after August 26, 1996, will be either granted or denied by EPA as soon as is feasible.

(5) The Agency will consider an application for an exemption from a ban under § 763.169 for a product at the same time the applicant submits an application for an exemption from a ban under § 763.165 or § 763.167 for that product. EPA will grant an exemption at that time from a ban under § 763.169 if the Agency determines it appropriate to do so.

(6) If the Agency denies an application less than 30 days before the effective date of a ban for a product, the applicant can continue the activity for 30 days after receipt of the denial from the Agency.

(7) If the Agency fails to meet the deadlines stated in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section for granting or denying a complete application in instances in which the deadline is before the effective date of the ban to which the application applies, the applicant will be granted an extension of 1 year from the Agency's deadline date. During this extension period the applicant may continue the activity that is the subject of the exemption application. The Agency will either grant or deny the application during the extension period. The extension period will terminate either on the date the Agency grants the application or 30 days after the applicant receives the Agency's denial of the application. However, no extension will be granted if the Agency is scheduled to grant or deny an application at some date after the effective date of the ban, pursuant to the deadlines stated in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section.

(c) Where to file. All applications must be submitted to the following location: TSCA Docket Receipts Office (7407), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Rm E-G99, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460, ATTENTION: Asbestos Exemption. For information regarding the submission of exemptions containing information claimed as confidential business information (CBI), see § 763.179.

(d) Content of application and criteria for decisionmaking.

(1) Content of application. Each application must contain the following:

(i) Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.

(ii) Description of the manufacturing, import, processing, and/or distribution in commerce activity for which an exemption is requested, including a description of the asbestos-containing product to be manufactured, imported, processed, or distributed in commerce.

(iii) Identification of locations at which the exempted activity would take place.

(iv) Length of time requested for exemption (maximum length of an exemption is 4 years).

(v) Estimated amount of asbestos to be used in the activity that is the subject of the exemption application.

(vi) Data demonstrating the exposure level over the life cycle of the product that is the subject of the application.

(vii) Data concerning:

(A) The extent to which non-asbestos substitutes for the product that is the subject of the application fall significantly short in performance under necessary product standards or requirements, including laws or ordinances mandating product safety standards.

(B) The costs of non-asbestos substitutes relative to the costs of the asbestos-containing product and, in the case in which the product is a component of another product, the effect on the cost of the end use product of using the substitute component.

(C) The extent to which the product or use serves a high-valued use.

(viii) Evidence of demonstrable good faith attempts by the applicant to develop and use a non-asbestos substance or product which may be substituted for the asbestos-containing product or the asbestos in the product or use that is the subject to the application.

(ix) Evidence, in addition to that provided in the other information required with the application, showing that the continued manufacture, importation, processing, distribution in commerce, and use, as applicable, of the product will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health.

(2) Criteria for decision (existing products). After considering all the information provided by an applicant under paragraphs (d)(1) and (e) of this section, and any other information available to EPA, EPA will grant an exemption from the prohibitions in § 763.165, § 763.167, or § 763.169 for an applicant's asbestos-containing product only if EPA determines both of the following:

(i) The applicant has made good faith attempts to develop and use a non-asbestos substance or product which may be substituted for the asbestos-containing product or the asbestos in the product or use, and those attempts have failed to produce a substitute or a substitute that results in a product that can be economically produced.

(ii) Continued manufacturing, processing, distribution in commerce, and use, as applicable, of the product will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health.

(3) Criteria for decision (new products). Requests to develop and use an asbestos substance or product will be treated as a petition pursuant to section 21 of TSCA.

(e) The Agency reserves the right to request further information from an exemption applicant if necessary to complete the Agency's evaluation of an application.

(f) Upon receipt of a complete application, the Agency will issue a notice in theannouncing its receipt and invite public comments on the merits of the application.

(g) If the application does not include all of the information required in paragraph (d) of this section, the Agency will return it to the applicant as incomplete and any resubmission of the application will be considered a new application for purposes of the availability of any extension period. If the application is substantially inadequate to allow the Agency to make a reasoned judgment on any of the information required in paragraph (d) of this section and the Agency chooses to request additional information from the applicant, the Agency may also determine that an extension period provided for in paragraph (b)(5) of this section is unavailable to the applicant.

(h) When denying an application, the Agency will notify the applicant by registered mail of its decision and rationale. Whenever possible, the Agency will send this letter prior to the appropriate ban. This letter will be considered a final Agency action for purposes of judicial review. A notice announcing the Agency's denial of the application will be published in the

(i) If the Agency proposes to approve an exemption, it will issue a notice in theannouncing this intent and invite public comments. If, after considering any timely comments received, the Agency approves an exemption, its decision will be published in theThis notice will be considered a final Agency action for purposes of judicial review.

(j) The length of an exemption period will be specified by the agency when it approves the exemption. To extend an exemption period beyond the period stipulated by EPA, applicants must submit a new application to the Agency, following the application procedures described in this section. Applications may not be submitted prior to 15 months before the expiration of the exemption period, unless stated otherwise in the notice granting the exemption. Applications received between 15 months and 1 year before the end of the exemption period will be either granted or denied by the Agency before the end of the exemption period. Applications received after the date 1 year prior to the end of the exemption period will be either granted or denied by the Agency as soon as is feasible. Applicants may not continue the activity that is the subject of the renewal application after the date of the end of the exemption period.
