
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 766 - DIBENZO-PARA-DIOXINS/DIBENZOFURANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 766.1 Scope and purpose.

(a) This part identifies requirements for testing under section 4 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), 15 U.S.C. 2603, to ascertain whether certain specified chemical substances may be contaminated with halogenated dibenzodioxins (HDDs)/dibenzofurans (HDFs) as defined in § 766.3, and requirements for reporting under section 8 of TSCA, 15 U.S.C. 2607.

(b) Section 766.35(b) requires manufacturers and processors of chemical substances identified in § 766.25 to submit to EPA:

(1) Any existing test data showing analysis of the chemical substances for concentrations of HDDs/HDFs, applicable protocols, and the results of the analysis for HDDs/HDFs, (2) allegations of significant adverse reactions to HDDs/HDFs, compiled in accordance with part 717 of this chapter, and (3) health and safety studies on the HDDs/HDFs, in accordance with applicable provisions of part 716 of this chapter.

(c) Section 766.35(a) requires manufacturers and, under certain circumstances, processors of chemical substances identified in § 766.25 to submit letters of intent to test and protocols for the analysis of the chemical substances for the presence of HDDs/HDFs. Section 766.20 requires these manufacturers and processors to test their chemical substances for the presence of HDDs/HDFs. Any submissions must be in accordance with the EPA Procedures Governing Testing Consent Agreements and Test Rules contained in part 790 of this chapter and any modifications to such procedures contained in this part.

(d) Section 766.32 specifies conditions under which persons required to test may request an exclusion or waiver from testing.

(e) Deadlines for submission to EPA of protocols, reports, studies, and test results are specified in part 790, subpart C and § 766.35.

(f) Sections 766.10, 766.12, 766.14, 766.16, and 766.18 prescribe analytical methods required; § 766.27 prescribes target levels of quantitation (LOQ) for each congener for which quantitation is required.

(g) If results of existing tests or tests performed under this part indicate the presence of HDDs/HDFs in the identified chemical substance above the LOQ specified in § 766.27, § 766.35(c) requires the following additional reporting on the specified chemicals: production, process, use, exposure and disposal data under section 8(a) of TSCA; health and safety studies under section 8(d) of TSCA; and reports of allegations of significant adverse reactions under section 8(c) of TSCA. In some cases, additional reporting may be required of manufacturers reporting no contamination of the identified chemical substances under § 766.35(c)(2).

(h) Section 766.38 requires manufacturers of chemical substances produced from chemical substances identified as possible precursors to HDD/HDF formation, to report on chemical substances produced from such precursors.
