
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 766 - DIBENZO-PARA-DIOXINS/DIBENZOFURANS
##### Subpart B - Specific Chemical Testing/Reporting Requirements
###### § 766.35 Reporting requirements.
####### http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/ereporting/index.html.

(i) A completed form (EPA 7710-51) for that chemical substance. The form and instructions are available online atOne form must be submitted for each chemical substance for which a positive test result has been submitted.

(ii) Health and safety studies for the chemical substance for which a positive test result has been reported. The following provisions of part 716 of this chapter apply to submission of these studies: §§ 716.3; 716.10 (a) (1), (2), (3) and (4); 716.20; 716.25; 716.30; 716.35(a) (1), (2), and (4), [if applicable]; 716.35 (b) and (c); 716.40 (a) and (b); 716.50; 716.55; 716.60(a)(2).

(iii) Copies of records on the chemical substances required to be held under part 717 of this chapter.

(2) If a positive test result on a chemical substance is received from one person but not from others, EPA may issue a notice in thelisting that chemical substance and requiring any person manufacturing, importing or processing that chemical substance who has not submitted a positive test result to submit the information required in Part II of EPA Form 7710-51. Such a notice will be published only if EPA needs additional process data to make a determination of unreasonable risk.

(d)-(e) [Reserved]
