
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 770 - FORMALDEHYDE STANDARDS FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program
###### ยง 770.7 Third-party certification.
####### Recognition agreement.

(3)To be recognized by EPA under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program, a Product AB must enter into a recognition agreement with EPA that describes the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB's responsibilities under this subpart.

(i) Each recognition agreement will be valid for three years.

(ii) Each recognition agreement will identify an EPA Recognition Agreement Implementation Officer and an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB Implementation Officer that will serve as the point of contact for the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program.

(iii) To renew a recognition agreement for an additional three-year period, the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must submit an application for renewal in accordance with ยง 770.8 before the three-year period of the recognition agreement lapses. The application must indicate any changes from the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB's initial application or most recent renewal application.

(iv) If an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB fails to submit an application for renewal prior to the expiration of the previous recognition agreement, its recognition will lapse and the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB may not provide accreditation services under TSCA Title VI.

(v) If an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB does submit an application for renewal prior to the expiration of the previous recognition agreement, it may continue to provide TSCA Title VI accreditation services under the terms of its previous recognition agreement until EPA has taken action on its application for renewal of the recognition agreement.
