
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 770 - FORMALDEHYDE STANDARDS FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program
###### § 770.7 Third-party certification.
####### Notifications to EPA.

(v)Each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must provide, in accordance with § 770.8, the following notifications to EPA, as applicable:

(A) Notification of an approved or rejected application, including a renewal application, for a NAF or ULEF third-party certification exemption or ULEF reduced testing within five calendar days of the approval or rejection with copies of all approved applications forwarded to EPA within 30 calendar days of approval.

(B) Notification of an approved or rejected application, including a renewal application, for reduced testing for medium-density fiberboard or particleboard within five calendar days of the approval or rejection with copies of all approved applications forwarded to EPA within 30 calendar days of approval.

(C) Notification of a panel producer exceeding its established QCL for three consecutive quality control tests within 72 hours of the time that the TPC becomes aware of the third consecutive exceedance. The notice must include the product type, dates of the quality control tests that exceeded the QCL, quality control test results, ASTM E1333-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) or ASTM D6007-14 method (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) correlative equivalent values in accordance with § 770.20(d), the established QCL value(s) and the quality control method used.

(D) Notification of each failed quarterly test, that is any sample that exceeds the applicable formaldehyde emission standard in § 770.10, within 72 hours. Information in this notification is not eligible for treatment as confidential business information.

(E) Notification of a change in a non-domestic TPC's agent for service within five calendar days.

(F) Notification of a loss of accreditation or notification that the TPC has discontinued its participation in the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program must be provided within 72 hours.
