
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 770 - FORMALDEHYDE STANDARDS FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program
###### ยง 770.7 Third-party certification.
####### 3

() Notify the affected AB or TPC in writing within calendar 90 days of completion of the hearing of his or her decision and order. Such an order is a final EPA action which may be subject to judicial review. The order must contain the basis, commencement date, and duration of the suspension, revocation or modification.

(iii) If EPA determines that the public health, interest, or welfare warrants immediate action to revoke the recognition of an AB or TPC prior to the opportunity for a hearing, it will notify the affected AB or TPC of its right to request a hearing on the immediate revocation within 15 calendar days of the revocation taking place and the procedures for the conduct of such a hearing.

(iv) Any notification, decision, or order issued by EPA under this section, any transcript or other verbatim record of oral testimony, and any documents filed by a certified individual or firm in a hearing under this section will be available to the public, except as otherwise provided by TSCA section 14. Any such hearing at which oral testimony is presented will be open to the public, except that the Presiding Officer may exclude the public to the extent necessary to allow presentation of information which may be entitled to confidential treatment under TSCA section 14.

(v) EPA will maintain a publicly available list of ABs on its Web site whose recognition has been suspended, revoked or modified, or reinstated and a publicly available list of TPCs whose recognition has been suspended, revoked, modified, or reinstated.

(vi) Unless the decision and order issued under paragraph (e)(3) of this section specify otherwise, an AB or a TPC whose recognition has been revoked must reapply for recognition in order to become recognized under this part again.

(vii) Unless the decision and order issued under paragraph (e)(3) of this section specify otherwise, an AB whose recognition has been revoked or a TPC whose recognition has been revoked, must immediately notify all TPCs or panel producers to which it provides TSCA Title VI accreditation or certification services of the revocation.
