
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 770 - FORMALDEHYDE STANDARDS FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program
###### ยง 770.7 Third-party certification.
####### Effect of the loss of recognition or accreditation.

(f)(1) If an AB is removed or withdraws from the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program:

(i) For reasons other than fraud or providing false or misleading statements, and other than a reason that implicates a particular TPC in a violation of TSCA Title VI, TPCs accredited by that AB can continue to certify products under TSCA Title VI for 180 calendar days, after which the TPCs must be accredited again by another EPA TSCA Title VI AB and re-recognized by EPA.

(ii) Due to fraud or providing false or misleading statements with respect to a particular TPC, or for any other reason that implicates a particular TPC in a violation of TSCA Title VI, that TPC may not provide any TSCA Title VI certification services until it has been accredited again by another EPA TSCA Title VI AB and re-recognized by EPA.

(2) If a TPC loses its accreditation, or if TPC is removed or withdraws from the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program:

(i) For reasons other than fraud or providing false or misleading statements, and other than a reason that implicates a particular panel producer in a violation of TSCA Title VI, the panel producers that used the TPC to certify their products must enlist another EPA TSCA Title VI TPC to certify their products within 90 calendar days. If the panel producer is not able to obtain the services of another EPA TSCA Title VI TPC within 90 days, the panel producer may request from EPA a 90 calendar day extension. During the time a panel producer is seeking a new TPC, it must continue to comply with all other requirements of TSCA Title VI, including quality control testing.

(ii) Due to fraud or providing false or misleading statements with respect to a particular panel producer, or for any other reason that implicates a particular panel producer in a violation of TSCA Title VI, that panel producer may not sell, supply, offer for sale, or manufacture composite wood products for sale in the United States until its composite wood products have been recertified by another EPA TSCA Title VI TPC.
