
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 770 - FORMALDEHYDE STANDARDS FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - Composite Wood Products
###### § 770.15 Composite wood product certification.

(a) Beginning June 1, 2018, only certified composite wood products, whether in the form of panels or incorporated into component parts or finished goods, are permitted to be sold, supplied, offered for sale, or manufactured (including imported) in the United States, unless the product is specifically exempted by this part.

(b) Certified composite wood products are those that are produced or fabricated in accordance with all of the provisions of this part.

(c) To obtain product certification, a panel producer must apply to an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC.

(1) For panel producers that do not have any previous product certifications from a CARB-approved TPC or an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC, the application must contain the following:

(i) The panel producer's name, address, telephone number, and other contact information;

(ii) A copy of the panel producer's quality control manual as required by § 770.21(a);

(iii) Name and contact information for the panel producer's quality control manager;

(iv) An identification of the specific products for which certification is requested, and the resin system used in panel production;

(v) At least five tests conducted under the supervision of an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC pursuant to test method ASTM E1333-14 or ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99). Test results obtained by ASTM D6007-14 must include a showing of equivalence in accordance with § 770.20(d)(1);

(vi) At least five quality control tests conducted in accordance with § 770.20(b)(1);

(vii) Correlation data and linear regression equation (or, under the threshold approach, the correlation data and the upper limit); and

(viii) Results of an initial, on-site inspection by the TPC of the panel producer. In the event a government entity has identified the existence of unsafe conditions as outlined in § 770.7(c)(4)(i)(G) and in order to conduct the required initial, on-site inspection associated with new certification activities, the TPC may conduct a virtual inspection via on-site video/teleconference technology (operating as directed by the TPC) and that aligns with the standard operating procedure the TPC would normally employ during an in-person inspection to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (c)(1)(viii).

(2) For panel producers applying for certification of a new product type but that have previous product certifications from a CARB-approved TPC or an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC, the application must contain the following:

(i) The panel producer's name, address, and telephone number;

(ii) An identification of the specific products for which certification is requested, and the resin system used in panel production;

(iii) At least five tests conducted under the supervision of an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC pursuant to test method ASTM E1333-14 or ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99). Test results obtained by ASTM D6007-14 must include a showing of equivalence in accordance with § 770.20(d)(1);

(iv) At least five quality control tests conducted in accordance with § 770.20(b)(1);

(v) Correlation data and linear regression equation (or, under the threshold approach, the correlation data and the upper limit); and

(vi) Description of any changes in the panel producer's quality control manual and a copy of those changes.

(d) The EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must act on a panel producer's complete application within 90 calendar days of receipt by reviewing all of the components of the application.

(1) If the application indicates that the candidate product achieves the applicable emission standards described in § 770.10, adequate correlation as described in § 770.20(d)(2), and that the panel producer is meeting the requirements in § 770.21, the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC will approve the application.

(2) If the application is from a panel producer that did not previously have products certified by a CARB-approved TPC or an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC, the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC will review the quality control manual and results of the on-site initial inspection and approve or disapprove the quality control manual.

(3) If the application does not demonstrate that the candidate product achieves the applicable emission standards described in § 770.10, the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC will disapprove the application. A new application may be submitted for the candidate product at any time.

(e) If a product is certified by a CARB-approved TPC that is also recognized by EPA, the product will also be considered certified under TSCA Title VI until March 22, 2019 after which the TPC needs to comply with all the requirements of this part as an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC under Section 770.7(d) in order for the product to remain certified.

(f) To maintain certification, the panel producer making the certified product must get inspected by its EPA TSCA Title VI TPC quarterly as well as meet the testing requirements under § 770.20.

(g) If the certified product fails a quarterly test, certification for any product types represented by the sample is suspended until a compliant quarterly test result is obtained in accordance with § 770.22.
