
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 770 - FORMALDEHYDE STANDARDS FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - Composite Wood Products
###### ยง 770.12 Stockpiling.

(a) The sale of stockpiled inventory of composite wood products, whether in the form of panels or incorporated into component parts or finished goods, is prohibited after June 1, 2018.

(b) To determine whether stockpiling has occurred, the rate of manufacture or purchase is measured as follows:

(1) For composite wood products in the form of panels, the rate is measured in terms of square footage of panels produced.

(2) For composite wood products incorporated into component parts or finished goods, the rate is measured in terms of the square footage of composite wood product panels purchased for the purpose of incorporating them into component parts or finished goods.

(c) Manufacturers or purchasers who have, in an annual year, a greater than 20% increase in manufacturing or purchasing composite wood products relative to annual year 2009 for some reason other than circumventing the emission standards would not be in violation of this section. Such reasons may include, but are not limited to:

(1) A quantifiable immediate increase in customer demand or sales.

(2) A documented and planned business expansion.

(3) The manufacturer or purchaser was not in business at the beginning of calendar year 2009.

(4) An increase in production to meet increased demand resulting from an emergency event or natural disaster.

(d) In order to be found to be stockpiling an entity must be increasing the rate of manufacturing or purchasing for the purpose of circumventing the emission standards.
