
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 770 - FORMALDEHYDE STANDARDS FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - Composite Wood Products
###### § 770.20 Testing requirements.
####### Equivalence or correlation.

(d)Equivalence between ASTM E1333-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) and ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) must be demonstrated by EPA TSCA Title VI TPCs at least once each year or whenever there is a significant change in equipment, procedure, or the qualifications of testing personnel, or reason to believe that the equivalence is no longer valid. Equivalence may be demonstrated between several similar model or size and construction ASTM E1333-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) and ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) apparatuses located in the same EPA TSCA Title VI TPC laboratory. Once equivalence has been established for three consecutive years, equivalence must be demonstrated every two years or whenever there is a significant change in equipment, procedure, or the qualifications of testing personnel. Correlation between ASTM E1333-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) or, upon a showing of equivalence in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) and any other test method used for quality control testing must be demonstrated by EPA TSCA Title VI TPCs or panel producers, respectively, before the certification of composite wood products, and then whenever there is a significant change in equipment, procedure, the qualifications of testing personnel, or reason to believe that the correlation is no longer valid. Correlation may be established between several similar model or size and construction mill quality control test methods defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section located at any one physical mill quality control testing laboratory to the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC's laboratory's ASTM E1333-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) and/or ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) apparatus. If the TPC laboratory's ASTM E1333-14 or equivalent ASTM D6007-14 test chamber is used for panel producer quality control testing, no correlation as determined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section would be required. Equivalence and correlation sample selection should be conducted in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section.
