
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 770 - FORMALDEHYDE STANDARDS FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - Composite Wood Products
###### § 770.20 Testing requirements.
####### Cluster Approach.

(A)A panel producer may work with its EPA TSCA Title VI TPC to develop a correlation and linear regression between the TPC's ASTM E1333-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) or equivalent ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) test method and the panel producer's quality control method under paragraph (b) of this section. In the event of clustered test results, a panel producer may fit a line through a point near the origin (the intersection of the X and Y axes) and the average value of the clustered data pairs. The point near the origin should represent the value for the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC's ASTM E1333-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) or equivalent ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) test method and the panel producer's quality control method under § 770.20(b) when each testing apparatus is empty or when a very low emitting sample is tested. The average value of the clustered data pairs represents the average of a minimum of five data pairs that compare the test results of the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC's ASTM E1333-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) or equivalent ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) test method with the panel producer's quality control method under paragraph (b) of this section. The line between the point near the origin and the average value of the cluster provides the linear regression. This line may be used by the panel producer and TPC to develop a quality control limit for the product.
