
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 770 - FORMALDEHYDE STANDARDS FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - Composite Wood Products
###### § 770.40 Reporting and recordkeeping.

(a) Panel producers must maintain the following records for a period of three years, except that records demonstrating initial eligibility for reduced testing or third-party certification exemption under § 770.17 or § 770.18 must be kept for as long as the panel producer is producing composite wood products with reduced testing or under a third-party certification exemption. The following records must also be made available to the panel producers' EPA TSCA Title VI TPCs. Panel producers must make the records described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section available to direct purchasers of their composite wood products. This information may not be withheld from direct purchasers as confidential business information.

(1) Records of all quarterly emissions testing. These records must identify the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC conducting or overseeing the testing. These records must also include the date, the product type tested, the lot number that the tested material represents, the test method used, and the test results.

(2) Records of all ongoing quality control testing. These records must identify the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC conducting or overseeing the testing and the facility actually performing the testing. These records must also include the date, the product type tested, the lot number that the tested material represents, the test method used, and the test results.

(3) Production records, including a description of the composite wood product(s), the date of manufacture, lot numbers, and tracking information allowing each product to be traced to a specific lot produced.

(4) Records of changes in production, including changes of more than ten percent in the resin use percentage, changes in resin composition that result in a higher ratio of formaldehyde to other resin components, and changes in the process, such as changes in press time by more than 20%.

(5) Records demonstrating initial and continued eligibility for the reduced testing provisions in §§ 770.17 and 770.18, if applicable. These records must include:

(i) Approval for reduced testing from an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC or CARB;

(ii) Amount of resin use reported by volume and weight;

(iii) Production volume reported as square feet per product type;

(iv) Resin trade name, resin manufacturer contact information (name, address, phone number, and email), and resin supplier contact information (name, address, phone number, and email); and

(v) Any changes in the formulation of the resin.

(6) Purchaser information for each composite wood product, if applicable, including the name, contact person if available, address, telephone number, email address if available, purchase order or invoice number, and amount purchased.

(7) Transporter information for each composite wood product, if applicable, including name, contact person, address, telephone number, email address if available, and shipping invoice number.

(8) Information on the disposition of non-complying lots, including product type and amount of composite wood products affected, lot numbers, purchasers who received product belonging to non-complying lots (if any), copies of purchaser notifications used (if any), mitigation measures used, results of retesting, and final disposition.

(9) Representative copies of labels used.

(b) Panel producers must provide their EPA TSCA Title VI TPC with monthly product data reports for each production facility, production line, and product type, maintain copies of the reports for a minimum of three years from the date that they are produced. Monthly product data reports must contain a data sheet for each specific product type with test and production information, and a quality control graph containing the following:

(1) QCL;

(2) Shipping QCL (if applicable);

(3) Results of quality control tests; and

(4) Retest values.

(c) Laminated product producers whose products are exempt from the definition of hardwood plywood must keep records demonstrating eligibility for the exemption. These records must be kept for a minimum of three years from the date they are produced and must include:

(1) Resin trade name, resin manufacturer contact information (name, address, phone number, and email), resin supplier contact information (name, address, phone number, and email), and resin purchase records;

(2) Panel producer contact information and panel purchase records;

(3) For panels produced in-house, records demonstrating that the panels have been certified by an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC; and

(4) For resins produced in-house, records demonstrating the production of phenol-formaldehyde resins or resins formulated with no added formaldehyde as part of the resin cross-linking structure.

(d) Importers, fabricators, distributors, and retailers must maintain the records described in § 770.30 for a minimum of three years from the import date or the date of the purchases or shipments described therein.
