
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart C - Implementation, Enforcement, and Modification of Test Rules
###### § 790.45 Submission of letter of intent to conduct testing or exemption application.

(a) No later than 30 days after the effective date of a test rule described in § 790.40, each person subject to that test rule and required to comply with the requirements of that test rule as provided in § 790.42(a) must, for each test required, send his or her notice of intent to conduct testing, or submit to EPA an application for exemption from testing by the method specified in § 790.5(b).

(b) EPA will consider letters of intent to test as commitments to sponsor the tests for which they are submitted unless EPA agrees to the substitution of an exemption application in instances where more than one person indicates an intent to sponsor equivalent tests.

(c) Each letter of intent to conduct testing must include:

(1) Identification of test rule.

(2) Name, address, and telephone number of the firm(s) which will be sponsoring the tests.

(3) Name, address, and telephone number of the appropriate individual to contact for further information.

(4) For sponsors participating in a testing consortium-a list of all members of the consortium, the signature of an authorized representative of each member, and a designation of who is to serve as principal sponsor.

(5) A list of the testing requirements for which the sponsor(s) intends to conduct tests.

(6) If EPA is requiring testing of more than one representative substance-which test substance the sponsor(s) intends to use in each of the tests.

(7) A payment identity number on the front page of the letter, as required in § 700.45(g)(4) of this chapter.

(d)(1) Any person not manufacturing or processing the subject chemical as of the effective date of the test rule describing in § 790.40 or by 30 days after the effective date of the rule who, before the end of the reimbursement period, manufacturers or processes the test chemical and who is subject to and required to comply with the requirements of the test rule must submit the letter of intent to test or an exemption application required by paragraph (a) of this section by the date manufacture or processing begins, or

(2) When both manufacturers and processors are subject to the rule, any person not processing the subject chemical as of the effective date of the test rule described in § 790.40 or by 30 days after publication of thenotice described in § 790.48(b)(2) who, before the end of the reimbursement period, processes the test chemical and who is required to comply with the requirements of the rule must submit the letter of intent to test or an exemption application required by § 790.48(b)(3) of the date processing begins.

(e) Manufacturers subject to a test rule described in § 790.40 who do not submit to EPA either a letter of their intent to conduct tests or a request for an exemption from testing for each test for which testing is required in the test rule will be considered in violation of that rule beginning on the 31st day after the effective date of the test rule described in § 790.40 or on the date manufacture begins as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(f) Processors subject to a test rule described in § 790.40 and required to comply with the requirements of test rule pursuant to § 790.42(a)(2) or anotice as described in § 790.48(b)(2) who do not submit to EPA either a letter of their intent to conduct tests or a request for an exemption for each test for which testing is required in the test rule will be considered in violation of that rule beginning on the 31st day after the effective date of the test rule described in § 790.40 or 31 days after publication of thenotice described in § 790.48(b)(2) or on the date processing begins as described in paragraph (d) of this section, as appropriate.

(g) Manufacturers and processors subject to a test rule described in § 790.40 and required to comply with the requirements of that test rule as provided in § 790.42(a) must remit the applicable fee specified in § 700.45(c) of this chapter.
