
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Developing Consent Agreements and Test Rules
###### ยง 790.20 Recommendation, recommendation with an intent to designate, and designation of testing candidates by the ITC.
####### Preliminary EPA evaluation of ITC recommendations with intent to designate.

(b)Following receipt of an ITC report containing a recommendation with an intent to designate, EPA will use the following procedure for completing a preliminary evaluation of testing needs on those chemical substances that the ITC has recommended with intent to designate:

(1) EPA will publish the ITC report in theand announce that interested persons have 30 days to submit comments on the ITC's testing recommendations.

(2) EPA will publish adocument adding all ITC-recommended chemicals to the automatic reporting provisions of its rules under sections 8(a) and 8(d) of TSCA (40 CFR parts 712 and 716).

(3) EPA will hold a public "focus meeting" to discuss the ITC's testing recommendations and obtain comments and information from interested parties.

(4) EPA will evaluate submissions received under TSCA sections 8(a) and 8(d) reporting requirements, comments filed on the ITC's recommendations, and other information and data compiled by the Agency.

(5) EPA will make a preliminary staff determination of the need for testing and, where testing appears warranted, will tentatively select the studies to be performed.

(6) EPA will hold a public meeting to announce its preliminary testing determinations.
