
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart C - Implementation, Enforcement, and Modification of Test Rules
###### § 790.50 Submission of study plans.
####### Who must submit study plans.

(a)(1) Persons who notify EPA of their intent to conduct tests in compliance with the requirements of a single phase test rule as described in § 790.40(b)(1) must submit study plans for those tests prior to the initiation of each of these tests, unless directed by a particular test rule or consent agreement to submit study plans at a specific time.

(2) Persons who notify EPA of their intent to conduct tests in compliance with the requirements of a Phase I test rule as described in § 790.40(b)(2) must submit the proposed study plans for those tests on or before 90 days after the effective date of the Phase I rule; or, for processors complying with the notice described in § 790.48(b)(2), 90 days after the publication date of that notice; or 60 days after the date manufacture or processing begins as described in § 790.45(d), as appropriate, to the address in § 790.5(b).

(3) Study plans must be prepared according to the requirements of this subpart B and part 792 of this chapter. Only one set of study plans should be prepared and submitted by persons who are jointly sponsoring testing.

(4) Any person subject to a test rule may submit a study plan for any test required by the rule at any time, regardless of whether the person previously submitted an application for exemption from testing for that test.

(5) Unless EPA has granted an extension of time for submission of proposed study plans, manufacturers who notify EPA that they intend to conduct testing in compliance with the requirements of a Phase I test rule as described in § 790.40(b)(2) and who do not submit proposed study plans for those tests on or before 90 days after the effective date of the Phase I test rule or 60 days after the date manufacture begins as described in § 790.45(d) will be considered in violation of the test rule as if no letter of intent to test had been submitted.

(6) Unless EPA has granted an extension of time for submission of proposed study plans, processors who notify EPA that they intend to conduct testing in compliance with the requirements of a Phase I test rule as described in § 790.40(b)(2) and who do not submit proposed study plans for those tests on or before 90 days after the effective date of the Phase I test rule or 90 days after the publication date of the notice described in § 790.48(b)(2), or 60 days after the date processing begins as described in § 790.45(d), as appropriate, will be considered in violation of the test rule as if no letter of intent to test had been submitted.
