
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart C - Implementation, Enforcement, and Modification of Test Rules
###### § 790.50 Submission of study plans.
####### Extensions of time for submission of study plans.

(b)(1) EPA may grant requests for additional time for the development of study plans on a case-by-case basis. Requests for additional time for study plan development must be submitted to EPA by the method specified in § 790.5(b). Any extension request must state why EPA should grant the extension.

(2) Under two-phase rulemaking, extension requests must be submitted to EPA within 60 days after the effective date of the Phase I test rule as described in § 790.40(b)(2); or for processors complying with the notice described in § 790.48(b)(2), 60 days after the publication date of that notice; or 30 days after the date manufacture or processing begins as described in § 790.45(d), as appropriate.

(3) EPA will notify the submitter by certified mail of EPA's decision to grant or deny an extension request.

(4) Persons who have been granted an extension of time for submission of study plans as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and who do not submit proposed study plans in compliance with the requirements of a Phase I test rule in accordance with the new deadline granted by EPA will be considered in violation of the test rule as if no letter of intent to test had been submitted as described in § 790.45(e) and (f).
