
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart D - Implementation, Enforcement and Modification of Consent Agreements
###### ยง 790.62 Submission of study plans and conduct of testing.
####### Content of study plans.

(b)All study plans are required to contain the following information:

(1) Identity of the consent agreement under which testing will be performed.

(2) The specific test requirements to be covered by the study plan.

(3) The name and address of the principal test sponsor.

(4) The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the responsible administrative official[s] and project manager[s] in the principal sponsor's organization.

(5) The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the technical contacts at each manufacturer and/or processor subject to the agreement.

(6) The names and addresses of the testing facilities responsible for the testing and the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the administrative officials[s] and project manager[s] assigned to oversee the testing program at these facilities.

(7) Brief summaries of the training and experience of each professional involved in the study, including study director, veterinarian[s], toxicologist[s], pathologist[s], chemist[s], microbiologist[s], and laboratory assistants.

(8) Identity and supporting data on the chemical substance[s] being tested, including physical constants, spectral data, chemical analysis, and stability under test and storage conditions, as appropriate.
