
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart D - Implementation, Enforcement and Modification of Consent Agreements
###### ยง 790.60 Contents of consent agreements.
####### Standard provisions.

(a)All consent agreements will contain the following provisions:

(1) Identification of the chemical(s) to be tested.

(2) The health effects, environmental effects and/or other characteristics for which testing will be required.

(3) The names and addresses of each manufacturer and/or processor who will sign the agreement.

(4) The name and address of the manufacturer, processor or other entity who has agreed to act as the principal test sponsor.

(5) The technical or commercial grade, level of purity or other characteristics of the test substances(s) or mixture(s).

(6) Standards for the development of test data.

(7) A requirement that testing will be conducted in accordance with the EPA Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations (40 CFR part 792).

(8) Schedules with reasonable deadlines for submitting interim progress and/or final reports to EPA.

(9) A requirement that the principal sponsor will submit a study plan to EPA in accordance with ยง 790.62.

(10) A statement that the results of testing conducted pursuant to the consent agreement will be announced to the public in accordance with the procedures specified in section 4(d) of the Act and that the disclosure of data generated by such testing will be governed by section 14(b) of the Act.

(11) A requirement that the manufacturers and/or processors signing the consent agreement will comply with the notification requirements of section 12(b)(1) of the Act and part 707 of this chapter if they export or intend to export the substance or mixture for which the submission of data is required under the agreement and a statement that any other person who exports or intends to export such substance or mixture is subject to the above cited export notification requirements.

(12) A requirement that, in the event EPA promulgates a significant new use rule applicable to the test chemical under section 5(a)(2), the consent agreement will have the status of a test rule for purposes of section 5(b)(1)(A) and manufacturers and/or processors signing the agreement will comply with the data submission requirements imposed by that provision.

(13) A statement that each manufacturer and/or processor signing the agreement agrees that violation of its requirements will constitute a "prohibited act" under section 15(1) of the Act and will trigger all provisions of TSCA applicable to a violation of section 15.

(14) A statement that, in the event one or more provisions of the agreement are determined to be unenforceable by a court, the remainder of the agreement would not be presumed to be valid and EPA will then either initiate a rulemaking proceeding or publish in thethe Administrator's reason for not initiating such a proceeding.

(15) A statement that the Agency may conduct laboratory inspections and/or study audits of the testing being conducted pursuant to the consent agreement in accordance with the authority and procedures contained in section 11 of the Act.

(16) A statement that EPA acceptance of a consent agreement constitutes "final agency action" for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 704.

(17) Any other requirements that the parties agree are necessary to achieve the purposes of the Act.

(18) Payment identity number, as required in ยง 700.45(g)(4) of this chapter.
