
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart D - Implementation, Enforcement and Modification of Consent Agreements
###### ยง 790.68 Modification of consent agreements.
####### Changes in the scope of testing.

(a)(1) Manufacturers or processors subject to a consent agreement, other persons or EPA may seek modifications in the scope of testing performed under the consent agreement. If, upon receiving a request for modification, EPA determines that new issues have been raised that warrant reconsideration of the scope of testing, or if EPA determines on its own that such reconsideration is appropriate, EPA will publish anotice describing the proposed modification and soliciting public comment. If, based on the comments received, EPA concludes that differences of opinion may exist about the proposed modification, EPA will establish a schedule for conducting negotiations and invite parties who wish to participate in or monitor these negotiations to contact the Agency in writing. Any negotiations that EPA conducts will conform to the procedures specified in ยง 790.22(b).

(2) The scope of testing required by a consent agreement will be modified only where there is a consensus concerning the modified testing requirements among EPA, affected manufacturers and/or processors, and other persons who have asked to participate in or monitor negotiations under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In determining whether a consensus exists, EPA will employ the criteria specified in ยง 790.22(b)(8). In the absence of consensus, EPA may initiate rulemaking under section 4(a) of the Act if it concludes that any testing beyond that required by the consent agreement is necessary and that the other statutory findings required by section 4(a) can be made. While such rulemaking proceedings are underway, the consent agreement will remain in effect unless EPA finds that the testing required by the agreement is or may be unnecessary in view of the testing requirements included in EPA's proposed rule.
