
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart D - Implementation, Enforcement and Modification of Consent Agreements
###### ยง 790.68 Modification of consent agreements.
####### Changes in test standards or schedules.

(b)(1) Any test sponsor who wishes to modify the test schedule for any test required under a consent agreement must submit an application in accordance with this paragraph. Application for modification must be made using the method specified in ยง 790.5(b). Applications must include an appropriate explanation and rationale for the modification. EPA will consider only those applications that request modifications to mandatory testing conditions or requirements ("shall statements" in the consent agreement). Where a test sponsor requests EPA to provide guidance or to clarify a non-mandatory testing requirement (i.e., "should statements"), the test sponsor shall submit these requests to EPA using the method specified in ยง 790.5(b).

(2)(i) Where EPA concludes that the requested modification of a test standard or schedule for a test required under a consent agreement is appropriate, EPA will proceed in accordance with this paragraph (b)(2).

(ii) Where, in EPA's judgment, the requested modification of a test standard or schedule would not alter the scope of the test or significantly change the schedule for completing the test, EPA will not ask for public comment before approving the modification. EPA will notify the test sponsor, and any other persons who have signed the consent agreement, by letter of EPA's approval. EPA will place copies of each application and EPA approval letter in the administrative record maintained for the consent agreement in question. EPA will publish a notice annually in theindicating the test standards or schedules for test required in consent agreements which have been modified under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) and describing the nature of the modifications.

(iii) Where, in EPA's judgment, the requested modification of a test standard or schedule would significantly alter the scope of the test or significantly change the schedule for completing the test, EPA will publish a notice in therequesting comment on the proposed modification. However, EPA will approve a requested modification of a test standard under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section without first seeking public comment if EPA believes that an immediate modification to the test standard is necessary to preserve the accuracy or validity of an ongoing test. EPA also may modify a testing requirement or test condition in a test standard if EPA determines that the completion or achievement of this requirement or condition is not technically feasible. EPA may approve a requested modification of a test schedule under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section without first seeking public comment if EPA determines, on a case-by-case basis, that a delay of over 12 months is not the fault of the test sponsor and is due to unforeseen circumstances such as a lack of laboratory availability, lack of availability of suitable test substance (e.g., 14-C labelled test substance), lack of availability of healthy test organisms, or the unexpected failure of a long-term test. EPA will publish an annual notice in theannouncing the approval of any test standard modifications and test scheduled extensions under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, and provide a brief rationale of why the modification was granted.

(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), a requested modification of a test standard of schedule for a test required under a consent agreement would alter the scope of the test or significantly change the schedule for completing the test if the modification would:

(A) Change the test species.

(B) Change the route of administration of the test chemical.

(C) Change the period of time during which the test species is exposed to the test chemical.

(D) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, extend the final reporting deadline more than 12 months from the date specified in the consent order.

(3) Where EPA concludes that the requested modification of a test standard or schedule for a test requirement under a consent agreement is not appropriate, EPA will so notify the test sponsor in writing.
