
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart D - Implementation, Enforcement and Modification of Consent Agreements
###### ยง 790.62 Submission of study plans and conduct of testing.
####### Review and modification.

(c)(1) Upon receipt of a study plan, EPA will review it to determine whether it complies with paragraph (b) of this section. If EPA determines that the study plan does not comply with paragraph (b) of this section, EPA will notify the submitter that the plan is incomplete and will identify the deficiencies and the steps necessary to complete the plan. It is the responsibility of the test sponsor to review the study protocols to determine if they comply with all the mandatory testing conditions and requirements in the test standards (i.e., "shall statements").

(2) The submitter will have 15 days after the day it receives a notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to submit appropriate information to make the study plan complete.

(3) If the submitter fails to provide appropriate information to complete a study plan within 15 days after having received a notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the submitter will be considered to be in violation of the consent agreement and subject to enforcement proceedings pursuant to ยง 790.65 (c) and (d).

(4) The test sponsor shall submit any amendments to study plans to EPA using the method specified in ยง 790.5(b).
