
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 790 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING TESTING CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND TEST RULES
##### Subpart E - Exemptions From Test Rules
###### § 790.93 Termination of conditional exemption.

(a) EPA shall terminate a conditional exemption if it determines that:

(1) The test which provided the basis for approval of the exemption application has not been started by the deadlines for initiation of testing adopted in the test rule or modified in accordance with § 790.55; or

(2) Data required by the test rule have not been generated in accordance with the test standards or submitted in accordance with the deadlines for submission of test data that were adopted in the test rule or modified in accordance with § 790.55; or

(3) The testing has not been conducted or the data have not been generated in accordance with the Good Laboratory Practice requirements in part 792 of this chapter.

(b) If EPA determines that one or more of the criteria listed in paragraph (a) of this section has been met, EPA will notify each holder of an affected conditional exemption by certified mail ornotice of EPA's intent to terminate that conditional exemption.

(c) Within 30 days after receipt of a letter notification or publication of a notice in thethat EPA intends to terminate a conditional exemption, the exemption holder may submit information using the method specified in § 790.5(b) either to rebut EPA's preliminary decision or notify EPA of its intent to conduct the required test pursuant to the test standard established in the test rule. Such a letter of intent shall contain all of the information required by § 790.45(c).

(d)(1) The exemption holder may also include a request for a hearing. Hearings will be held in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 790.97.

(2) Hearing requests must be submitted using the method specified in § 790.5(b) and must be received by EPA within 30 days after receipt of the letter or publication in thenotice described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(e) EPA will notify the exemption holder by certified letter or bynotice of EPA's final decision concerning termination of conditional exemptions and will give instructions as to what actions the former exemption holder must take to avoid being found in violation of the test rule.
