
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 791 - DATA REIMBURSEMENT
##### Subpart C - Basis for Proposed Order
###### ยง 791.45 Processors.

(a) Generally, processors will be deemed to have fulfilled their testing and reimbursement responsibilities indirectly, through higher prices passed on by those directly responsible, the manufacturers. There are three circumstances in which processors will have a responsibility to provide reimbursement directly to those paying for the testing:

(1) When a test rule or subsequentnotice pertaining to a test rule expressly obligates processors as well as manufacturers to assume direct testing and data reimbursement responsibilities.

(2) When one or more manufacturers demonstrate to the hearing officer that it is necessary to include processors in order to provide fair and equitable reimbursement in a specific case.

(3) When one or more processors voluntarily agree to reimburse manufacturers for a portion of test costs. Only those processors who volunteer will incur the obligation.

(b) A hearing including processors shall be initiated in the same way as those including only manufacturers. Voluntary negotiations must be attempted in good faith first, and the request for a hearing must contain the names of the parties and a description of the unsuccessful negotiations.

(c) When processors as well as manufacturers are required to provide reimbursement, the hearing officer will decide for each case how the reimbursement should be allocated among the participating parties. When a test rule is applicable solely to processors, the hearing officer will apply the formula to the amount of the test chemical purchased or processed.
