
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 792 - GOOD LABORATORY PRACTICE STANDARDS
##### Subpart F - Test, Control, and Reference Substances
###### ยง 792.105 Test, control, and reference substance characterization.

(a) The identity, strength, purity, and composition, or other characteristics which will appropriately define the test, control, or reference substance shall be determined for each batch and shall be documented before its use in a study. Methods of synthesis, fabrication, or derivation of the test, control, or reference substance shall be documented by the sponsor or the testing facility, and such location of documentation shall be specified.

(b) When relevant to the conduct of the study the solubility of each test, control, or reference substance shall be determined by the testing facility or the sponsor before the experimental start date. The stability of the test, control or reference substance shall be determined before the experimental start date or concomitantly according to written standard operating procedures, which provide for periodic analysis of each batch.

(c) Each storage container for a test, control, or reference substance shall be labeled by name, chemical abstracts service number (CAS) or code number, batch number, expiration date, if any, and, where appropriate, storage conditions necessary to maintain the identity, strength, purity, and composition of the test, control, or reference substance. Storage containers shall be assigned to a particular test substance for the duration of the study.

(d) For studies of more than 4 weeks experimental duration, reserve samples from each batch of test, control, and reference substances shall be retained for the period of time provided by ยง 792.195.

(e) The stability of test, control, and reference substances under storage conditions at the test site shall be known for all studies.
