
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Provisional Chemical Fate Guidelines
###### ยง 795.70 Indirect photolysis screening test: Sunlight photolysis in waters containing dissolved humic substances.
####### Procedure.

(2)(i) Solutions of test chemicals should be prepared using sterile, air-saturated, 0.010 M, pH 7.0 phosphate buffer and reagent-grade (or purer) chemicals.Reaction mixtures should be prepared with chemicals at concentrations at less than one-half their solubility in pure water and at concentrations such that, at any wavelengths above 290 nm, the absorbance in a standard quartz sample cell with a 1-cm path length is less than 0.05. If the chemicals are too insoluble in water to permit reasonable handling or analytical procedures, 1-volume percent acetonitrile may be added to the buffer as a cosolvent.

(ii) This solution should be mixed 9.00:1.00 by volume with PW or SHW stock solution to provide working solutions. In the case of SHW, it gives a ten-fold dilution of SHW stock solution. Six mL aliquots of each working solution should then be transferred to separate 12 x 100 mm quartz tubes with screw tops and tightly sealed with Mininert valves.Twenty four tubes are required for each chemical solution (12 samples and 12 dark controls), to give a total of 48 tubes.

(iii) The sample tubes are mounted in a photolysis rack with the tops facing geographically north and inclined 30&#xB0; from the horizontal. The rack should be placed outdoors over a black background in a location free of shadows and excessive reflection.

(iv) Reaction progress should be measured with an analytical technique that provides a precision of at least +/-5 percent. High pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) or gas chromatograph (GC) have proven to be the most general and precise analytical techniques.

(v) Sample and control solution concentrations are calculated by averaging analytical measurements for each solution. Control solutions should be analyzed at least twice at zero time and at other times to determine whether any loss of chemical in controls or samples has occurred by some adventitious process during the experiment.

(vi) Whenever possible the following procedures should be completed in clear, warm, weather so that solutions will photolyze more quickly and not freeze.

(A) Starting at noon on day zero, expose to sunlight 24 sample tubes mounted on the rack described above. Tape 24 foil-wrapped controls to the bottom of the rack.

(B) Analyze two sample tubes and two unexposed controls in PW and SHW for chemical at 24 hours. Calculate the round tube photolysis rate constants (k)and (k)if the percent conversions are J 20 percent but F 80 percent. The rate constants (k)and (k)are calculated, respectively, from Equations 2 and 3:

(C) If less than 20 percent conversion occurs in SHW in 1 day, repeat the procedure for SHW and PW at 2 days, 4 days, 8 days, or 16 days, or until 20 percent conversion is reached. Do not extend the experiment past 16 days. If less than 20 percent photoreaction occurs in SHW at the end of 16 days the chemical is "photoinert". Phase 3 is not applicable.

(D) If more than 80 percent photoreaction occurs at the end of day 1 in SHW, repeat the experiment with eight each of the remaining foil-wrapped PW and SHW controls. Divide these sets into four sample tubes each, leaving four foil-wrapped controls taped to the bottom of the rack.
