
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Provisional Chemical Fate Guidelines
###### ยง 795.70 Indirect photolysis screening test: Sunlight photolysis in waters containing dissolved humic substances.
####### Procedure.

(2)(i) Using the test chemical photoreaction rate constant in round tubes, (k)determined in Phase 2 under paragraph (c) of this section, and the absorption rate constant, k&#x3B1; found in Table 1, under paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section, calculate the molar pyridine concentration required by the PNAP/PYR actinometer using Equation 15:

(A) The variable k(= @ eL) is equal to the day-averaged rate constant for sunlight absorption by PNAP (USEPA (1984) under paragraph (f)(14) of this section; Mill et al. (1982) under paragraph (f)(10) of this section, Zepp and Cline (1977) under paragraph (f)(19) of this section) which changes with season and latitude.

(B) The variable kis selected from Table 1 under paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section for the season nearest the mid-experiment date of Phase 2 studies and the decadic latitude nearest the experimental site.

(ii) Once [PYR] is determined, an actinometer solution is prepared by adding 1.00 mL of 1.0 x 10M (0.165 gms/100 mL) PNAP stock solution (in CHCN solvent) and the required volume, V, of PYR to a 1 liter volumetric flask. The flask is then filled with distilled water to give 1 liter of solution. The volume V can be calculated from Equation 16:

(iii) The following solutions should be prepared and individually added in 6.00 mL aliquots to 12/100 mm quartz sample tubes; 8 tubes should be filled with each solution:

(A) PNAP/PYR actinometer solution.

(B) Test chemical in pH 7.0, 0.010 M phosphate buffer.

(C) Test chemcial in pH 7.0, 0.010 M phosphate buffer/SHW.

(D) pH 7.0, 0.010 M phosphate buffer/SHW. Four tubes of each set are wrapped in foil and used as controls.

(iv) The tubes are placed in the photolysis rack (Phase 2, Procedure) at 0900 hours on day zero, with the controls taped to the bottom of the rack. One tube of each composition is removed, along with their respective controls, according to a schedule found in Table 2, which categorizes sampling times on the basis of (k)determined in Phase 1.

(v) The tubes containing PNAP, test chemical, and their controls are analyzed for residual concentrations soon after the end of the experiment. PNAP is conveniently analyzed by HPLC, using a 30 cm Creverse phase column and a uv detector set at 280 nm. The mobile phase is 2 percent acetic acid, 50 percent acetonitrile and 48 percent water (2 mL/min flow rate). Tubes containing only SHW (solution D) should be analyzed by absorption spectroscopy at 370 nm after storage at 4 &#xB0;C in the dark. The absorbance range to be measured is 0.05 to 0.01 AU (1 cm).

(vi) If controls are well-behaved and show no significant loss of chemical or absorbance change, then kcan be calculated. In tabular form (see Table 4 under paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(A) of this section) arrange the quantities Pn(C/C), Pn(C/C), [1-(A/A)], Pn(A/A), and Pn(C/C)in order of increasing time. According to Equation 11 under paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section in the form of Equation 17,

(vii) According to Equation 12 under paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section, plot the quantities Pn(A/A) versus the independent variable Pn(C/C). Obtain the slope (S2) by least squares linear regression on Equation 12 under paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section. Under the assumptions of the protocol, S2 = (k/k).

(viii) Then, using Equation 13a under paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section, determine the slope (S3) by least squares linear regression. Under the assumptions of the protocol, S3 is equal to (k/k).

(ix) From Equation 18

(x) The indirect photoreaction rate constant, k, is determined using Equation 19,

(xi) The rate constant kis calculated from Equation 20,

(xii) Then, (k)is obtained by summing kand k, as described by Equation 14 in paragraph (d)(1)(ix) of this section:

(xiii) Finally, kis obtained by multiplying (k)by the factor 0.455, as described by Equation 5a in paragraph (d)(1)(x) of this section:
