
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Provisional Chemical Fate Guidelines
###### ยง 795.70 Indirect photolysis screening test: Sunlight photolysis in waters containing dissolved humic substances.
####### Illustrative Example.

(6)(i) Chemical A was dissolved in 0.010 M pH 7.0 buffer. The solution was filtered through a 0.2 )m filter, air saturated, and analyzed. It contained 1.7 x 10M A, five-fold less than its water solubility of 8.5 x 10M at 25 &#xB0;C. A uv spectrum (1-cm path length) versus buffer blank showed no absorbance greater than 0.05 in the wavelength interval 290 to 825 nm, a condition required for the Phase 2 protocol. The 180 mL mixture was diluted by the addition of 20 mL of SHW stock solution.

(ii) The SHW solution of A was photolyzed in sealed quartz tubes (12 x 100 mm) in the fall season starting on October 1. At the end of 1 and 2 days, respectively, the concentration of A was found to be 1.13 x 10M and 0.92 x 10M compared to unchanged dark controls (1.53 x 10M).

(iii) The tube photolysis rate constant of chemical A was calculated from Equation 2 under paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(B) of this section. The first time point at day 1 was used because the fraction of A remaining was in the range 20 to 80 percent:

(iv) From this value, kwas found to be 0.14 d-using equation 5 under paragraph (c)(2)(vii) of this section:

(v) From measurements in pure water, kfor chemical A was found to be 0.085 d. Because the ratio of (k)/k( = 3.5) is greater than 2, Phase 3 experiments were started.
