
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Provisional Chemical Fate Guidelines
###### ยง 795.70 Indirect photolysis screening test: Sunlight photolysis in waters containing dissolved humic substances.
####### p

(iii) The actinometer used is the-nitroacetophenone-pyridine (PNAP/PYR) system developed by Dulin and Mill (1982) under paragraph (f)(5) of this section and is used in two EPA test guidelines (USEPA (1984) under paragraphs (f) (14) and (15) of this section). By varying the pyridine concentration, the PNAP photolysis half-life can be adjusted over a range of several hours to several weeks. The starting PNAP concentration is held constant.

(iv) SHW is subject to photobleaching that decreases its ability to promote indirect photolysis based on its ability to absorb sunlight. This effect will be significant when the test period exceeds a few days. To correct for photobleaching, tubes containing SHW are irradiated in action to the other tubes above.

(v) At any time, the loss of test chemical is given by Equation 8 assuming actinometric correction to constant light flux:

(vi) The indirect photolysis rate constant, k, is actually time dependent because SHW photobleaches; the rate constant k, after pre-aging, obeys the formula:

(vii) To evaluate k, the parameter k has to be evaluated under standard sunlight conditions. Therefore, the photolysis rate constant for the PNAP/PYR actinometer (k) is used to evaluate k by linear regression on Equation 12:

(viii) To obtain k, determine the ratio (k/k) from a linear regression of Pn(C/C)versus Pn(C/C)according to Equation 13a:

(ix) Then, (k)values in SHW are determined by summing kand Kas follows:

(x) Finally, kis calculated from the precise relationship, Equation 5a:
