
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Provisional Chemical Fate Guidelines
###### ยง 795.70 Indirect photolysis screening test: Sunlight photolysis in waters containing dissolved humic substances.
####### Criteria for Phase 2.

(3)(i) If no loss of chemical is found in dark control solutions compared with the analysis in tubes at zero time (within experimental error), any loss of chemical in sunlight is assumed to be due to photolysis, and the procedure provides a valid estimate of kand k. Any loss of chemical in the dark-control solutions may indicate the intervention of some other loss process such as hydrolysis, microbial degradation, or volatilization. In this case, more detailed experiments are needed to trace the problem and if possible eliminate or minimize the source of loss.

(ii) Rate constants determined by the Phase 2 protocol depend upon latitude, season, and weather conditions. Note that (k)and kvalues apply to round tubes and kand kvalues apply to a natural water body. Because both (k)and kare measured under the same conditions the ratio ((k)/k) is a valid measure of the susceptibility of a chemical to indirect photolysis. However, since SHW is subject to photobleaching, (k)will decrease with time because the indirect rate will diminish. Therefore, R >2 is considered to be a conservative limit because (k)will become systematically smaller with time.
