
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Provisional Chemical Fate Guidelines
###### ยง 795.70 Indirect photolysis screening test: Sunlight photolysis in waters containing dissolved humic substances.
####### 4

(F) Report the value of R calculated from Equation 4 under paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(D)() of this section.

(G) Report the values of kand kobtained from Equations 5 and 6, respectively under paragraph (c)(2)(vii) of this section; report the corresponding half-life calculated from Equation 22 under paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(I) of this section.

(ii) Phase 3-Indirect photoreaction with actinometer. (A) Report the initial molar concentration of test chemical, C, in pure water and in SHW for each replicate and the mean value.

(B) Report the initial absorbance Aof the SNW solution.

(C) Report the initial molar concentration of PNAP of each replicate and the mean value in the actinometer. Report the concentration of pyridine used in the actinometer which was obtained from Equation 15 under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(D) Report the time and date the photolysis experiments were started, the time and date the experiments were completed, and the elapsed photolysis time in days.

(E) For each time point t, report the separate values of the absorbance of the SHW solution, and the mean values.

(F) For each time point for the controls, report the separate values of the molar concentrations of test chemical in pure water and SHW, and the absorbance of the SHW solution, and the mean values.

(G) Tabulate and report the following data: t, [C], [C], A, [PNAP].

(H) From the data in (G), tabulate and report the following data: t, Pn(C/C), Pn(C/C), [1-(A/A)SNW], Pn(A/A), Pn(C/C).

(I) From the linear regression analysis of the appropriate data in step (H) in Equation 17 under paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section, report the slope S1 and the correlation coefficient.

(J) From the linear regression analysis of the appropriate data in step (H) in Equation 12 under paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section, report the slope S2 and the correlation coefficient.

(K) From the linear regression analysis of the appropriate data in step (H) in Equation 13a under paragraph (d)(1)(viii) of this section, report the slope S3 and the correlation coefficient.

(L) If loss of chemical was observed during photolysis in pure water and SHW, then report the data Pn(C/C), Pn(C/C), Pn(C/C)as described in paragraph (e)(2)(E) of this section. Repeat steps (H), (I), (J), (K) where applicable and report S1, S2, S3 and the corresponding correlation coefficients.

(M) Report the value of the actinometer rate constant obtained from Equation 18 under paragraph (d)(2)(ix) of this section.

(N) Report the value of kobtained from Equation 19 under paragraph (d)(2)(x) of this section.

(O) Report the value of kobtained from Equation 20 under paragraph (d)(2)(xi) of this section.

(P) Report the value of (k), obtained from Equation 14 under paragraph (d)(1)(ix) of this section, and the value of kobtained from Equation 5a under paragraph (d)(1)(x) of this section.

(Q) Report the half-life, t, obtained from Equation 22 under paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(I) of this section.
