
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Provisional Chemical Fate Guidelines
###### ยง 795.70 Indirect photolysis screening test: Sunlight photolysis in waters containing dissolved humic substances.
####### Illustrative example.

(6)(i) From Phase 2 testing, under paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section, chemical A was found to have a photolysis rate constant, (k)&#x2032; of 0.30 din fall in round tubes at latitude 33&#xB0; N. Using Table 1 under paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section for 30&#xB0; N, the nearest decadic latitude, a fall value of kequal to 333 dis found for PNAP. Substitution of (k)and kinto Equation 15 under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section gives [PYR] = 0.0242 M. This is the concentration of pyridine that gives an actinometer rate constant of 0.30 din round tubes in fall at this latitude.

(ii) The actinometer solution was made up by adding a volume of pyridine (1.95 mL) calculated from equation 16 under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section to a 1 liter volumetric flask containing 1.00 mL of 1.00 x 10M PNAP in acetonitrile. The flask was filled to the mark with distilled water to give final concentrations of [PYR] = 0.0242 M and [PNAP] = 1.00 x 10M. Ten tubes of each of the following solutions were placed in the photolysis rack at 1,200 hours on day zero:

(A) Chemical A (1.53 x 10M) in standard SHW (0.010 M, pH 7 phosphate buffer).

(B) Chemical A (1.53 x 10), in 0.010 M, pH 7 phosphate buffer.

(C) SHW standard solution diluted with water 0.90 to 1.00 to match solution A.

(D) PNAP/PYR actinometer solution. Ten additional foil-wrapped controls of each mixture were taped to the bottom of the rack.

(iii) The test chemical had been placed in category B, Table 2 under the paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section, on the basis of its Phase 2 rate constant under paragraph (c) of this section. Accordingly, two tubes of each irradiated solution and two tubes of each blank solution were removed at 0, 1, 2, 4, and 8 days at 1,200 hours. The averaged analytical results obtained at the end of the experiment are shown in the following Table 3.

(A) From these items the functions Pn(C/C)&#x2032; Pn(C/C)&#x2032; [1-(A/A)], Pn(A/A), and Pn(C/C)were calculated, as shown in the following Table 4 which was derived from Table 3 under paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section:

(B) Slope S1 = (k/k) was calculated according to Equation 17 under paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section and was found to be 4.96 by a least squares regression with a correlation coefficient equal to 0.9980. The following Figure 1 shows a plot of Equation 17 under paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section and its best-fit line.

(C) Slope S2 = (k/k) was also derived from Table 4 under paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(A) of this section by a fit of Pn(A/A)and Pn(C/C)to Equation 12 under paragraph (d)(l)(vii) of this section. This plot is displayed in the following Figure 2; the slope S2 was found to be 0.295 and the correlation coefficient was equal to 0.9986.

(D) Using the data in columns 3 and 6 in Table 4 under paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, slope S3 was calculated by regression from Equation 13a under paragraph (d)(1)(viii) of this section and was found to be 0.428 with correlation coefficient equal to 0.99997.

(E) Using Equation 18 under paragraph (d)(2)(ix) of this section, kwas found to be = 0.300d.

(F) The values of S1, S2, and kwere then combined in Equation 19 under paragraph (d)(2)(x) of this section to give kas follows:

(G) The rate constant kwas calculated from the product of S3 and kas expressed in Equation 20 under paragraph (d)(2)(xi) of this section as follows:

(H) The sum of kand kwas multiplied by 0.455 to obtain kas follows:

(I) Since kis a first-order rate constant, the half-life, t, is given by Equation 22:
