
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Provisional Chemical Fate Guidelines
###### ยง 795.70 Indirect photolysis screening test: Sunlight photolysis in waters containing dissolved humic substances.
####### Chemosphere,

(7) Haag W.R., Hoigne J., Gassman E., Braun A.M. "Singlet oxygen in surface waters-Part II: Quantum yields of its production by some natural humic materials as a function of wavelength."13:641. (1984).

(8) Mill T., Winterle J.S., Fischer A., Tse D., Mabey W.R., Drossman H., Liu A., Davenport J.E. Toxic substances process data generation and protocol development. Work assignment 12, test standard development. "Section 3. Indirect photolysis." Draft final report. EPA Contract No. 68-03-2981. Environmental Research Laboratory, Office of Research and Development, EPA, Athens, GA, and Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, EPA, Washington, DC. (1984).

(9) Mill T., Mabey W.R., Bomberger D.C., Chou T.W., Hendry D.G., Smith J.H. "Laboratory protocols for evaluating the fate of organic chemicals in air and water. Chapter 3. Photolysis in water. Chapter 4. Oxidation in water." EPA 600/3-82-022. Environmental Research Laboratory, Office of Research and Development, EPA, Athens, GA. (1981).

(10) Mill T., Mabey W.R., Winterle J.S., Davenport J.E., Barich V.P., Dulin D.E., Tse D.S., Lee G. "Design and validation of screening and detailed methods for environmental processes. Appendix C. Lower-tier direct photolysis protocol." Draft final report. EPA Contract No. 68-01-6325. Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, EPA, Washington, DC. (1982).

(11) Mill T., Davenport J.E., Winterle J.S., Mabey W.R., Dossman H., Tse D., Liu A. Toxic substances process data generation and protocol development. Work assignment 12. "Appendix B. Upper-tier protocol for direct photolysis in water." Draft final report. EPA Contract No. 68-03-2981. Environmental Research Laboratory, Office of Research and Development, EPA, Athens, GA, and Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, EPA, Washington, DC. (July 1983).

(12) Winterle J.S., Mill T. Toxic substances process data generation and protocol development. Work assignment 18. "Indirect photoreaction protocol." Draft EPA special report. EPA Contract No. 68-03-2981. Environmental Research Laboratory, Office of Research and Development, EPA, Athens, GA and Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, EPA, Washington, DC. (1985).
