
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart C - Provisional Environmental Effects Guidelines
###### ยง 795.120 Gammarid acute toxicity test.
####### Reporting.

(e)The sponsor shall submit to the EPA all data developed by the test that are suggestive or predictive of toxicity. In addition, the test report shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following information:

(1) Name and address of the facility performing the study and the dates on which the study was initiated and completed.

(2) Objectives and procedures stated in the approved protocol, including any changes in the original protocol.

(3) Statistical methods employed for analyzing the data.

(4) The test substance identified by name, Chemical Abstracts (CAS) number or code number, source, lot or batch number, strength, purity, and composition, or other appropriate characteristics.

(5) Stability of the test substance under the conditions of the test.

(6) A description of the methods used, including:

(i) The source of the dilution water, its chemical characteristics (e.g., hardness, pH, etc.) and a description of any pretreatment.

(ii) A description of the test substance delivery system, test chambers, the depth and volume of solution in the chamber, the way the test was begun (e.g., test substance addition), the loading, the lighting, and the flow rate.

(iii) Frequency and methods of measurements and observations.

(7) The scientific name, weight, length, source, and history of the organisms used, and the acclimation procedures and food used.

(8) The concentrations tested, the number of gammarids and replicates per test concentration. The reported results should include:

(i) The results of dissolved oxygen, pH and temperature measurements.

(ii) If solvents are used, the name and source of the solvent, the nominal concentration of the test substance in the stock solution, the highest solvent concentration in the test solution and a description of the solubility determination in water and solvents.

(iii) The measured concentration of the test substance in each test chamber just before the start of the test and at all subsequent sampling periods.

(iv) In each test chamber at each observation period, the number of dead and live test organisms, the percentage of organisms that died, and the number of test organisms that showed any abnormal effects in each test chamber at each observation period.

(v) The 48, 72 and 96-hour LC50's and their 95 percent confidence limits. When sufficient data have been generated, the 24-hour LC50 value also. These calculations should be made using the mean measured test substance concentrations.

(vi) The observed no-effect concentration (the highest concentration tested at which there were no mortalities or abnormal behavioral or physiological effects), if any.

(vii) Methods and data for all chemical analyses of water quality and test substance concentrations, including method validations and reagent blanks.

(9) A description of all circumstances that may have affected the quality or integrity of the data.

(10) The names of the sponsor, study director, principal investigator, names of other scientists or professionals, and the names of all supervisory personnel involved in the study.

(11) A description of the transformations, calculations, or operations performed on the data, a summary and analysis of the data, and a statement of the conclusions drawn from the analysis. Results of the analysis of data should include the calculated LC50 value, 95 percent confidence limits, slope of the transformed concentration-response line, and the results of a goodness-of-fit test (e.g., chi-square test).

(12) The signed and dated reports prepared by any individual scientist or other professional involved in the study, including each person who, at the request or direction of the testing facility or sponsor, conducted an analysis or evaluation of data or specimens from the study after data generation was completed.

(13) The locations where all specimens, raw data, and the final report are stored.

(14) The statement prepared and signed by the quality assurance unit.
