
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Provisional Health Effects Guidelines
###### ยง 795.228 Oral/dermal pharmacokinetics.
####### Reporting results.

(3)In addition to the reporting requirements as specified in 40 CFR part 792, the following specific information shall be reported:

(i) Species and strains of laboratory animals.

(ii) Chemical characterization of the test substance, including:

(A) For the radioactive test substances, information on the site(s) and degree of radiolabeling, including type of label, specific activity, chemical purity, and radiochemical purity.

(B) For the nonradioactive compound, information on chemical purity.

(C) Results of chromatography.

(iii) A full description of the sensitivity, precision, and accuracy of all procedures used to generate the data.

(iv) Percent of absorption of test substance after oral and dermal exposures to rats and dermal exposure to mini-pigs.

(v) Quantity and percent recovery of radioactivity in feces, urine, expired air, and blood. In dermal studies on rats and mini-pigs, include recovery data for skin, skin washings, and residual radioactivity in the covering as well as results of the washing efficacy study.

(vi) Tissue distribution reported as quantity of radioactivity in blood and in various tissues, including bone, brain, fat, gastrointestinal tract, gonads, heart, kidney, liver, lung, muscle, skin and in residual carcass of rats.

(vii) Materials balance developed from each study involving the assay of body tissues and excreta.

(viii) Biotransformation pathways and quantities of test substance and metabolites in excreta collected after administering single high and low doses to rats.

(ix) Biotransformation pathways and quantities of the test substance and metabolites in excreta collected after administering repeated low doses to rats.

(x) Pharmacokinetics model(s) developed from the experimental data.
