
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Provisional Health Effects Guidelines
###### ยง 795.231 Pharmacokinetics of isopropanal.
####### Reporting results.

(3)In addition to the reporting requirements as specified in the EPA Good Laboratory Practice Standards (40 CFR 792.185), the following specific information shall be reported:

(i) Species and strains of laboratory animals.

(ii) Chemical characterization of the test substance, including:

(A) For the radioactive test substance, information on the site(s) and degree of radiolabeling, including type of label, specific activity, chemical purity, and radiochemical purity.

(B) For the nonradioactive substance, information on chemical purity.

(C) Results of chromatography.

(iii) A full description of the sensitivity, precision, and accuracy of all procedures used to generate the data.

(iv) Extent of absorption of the test substance as indicated by: percent absorption of the administered oral dose; and total body burden after inhalation exposure.

(v) Quantity and percent recovery of radioactivity in feces, urine, expired air, and blood.

(vi) Tissue distribution reported as quantity of radioactivity in blood and in various tissues, including bone, brain, fat, gastrointestinal tract, gonads, heart, kidney, liver, lung, muscle, skin, spleen and in residual carcass of each rat.

(vii) Biotransformation pathways and quantities of the test substance and metabolites in excreta collected after administering single high and low doses to rats.

(viii) Biotransformation pathways and quantities of the test substance and metabolites in excreta collected after administering repeated low doses to rats.

(ix) Pharmacokinetics model(s) developed from the experimental data.
