
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Provisional Health Effects Guidelines
###### ยง 795.232 Inhalation and dermal pharmacokinetics of commercial hexane.
####### Administration of test substances,Test substances.,n,n,n,n,1986 Annual Book of ASTM Standards: Petroleum Products and Lubricants,,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2)-(i)The study will require he use of both radiolabeled and unlabeled test substances. All unlabeled commercial hexane shall be from the same lot number.Two kinds of radiolabeled test substances will be tested.C--hexane shall be the only radiolabeled component of one, andC-MCP shall be the only radiolabeled component of the other test substance. The use of both radiolabeled test substances is required for all pharmacokinetics and metabolism studies described in this rule, except for the bioavailability measurements required in (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section.The bioavailability measurements need only be conducted with the test substance containingC--hexane or an unlabeled test substance may be used if it can be demonstrated that the analytical sensitivity of the method used with the unlabeled test substance is equal to or greater than the sensitivity which could be obtained with the radiolabeled test substance. If an unlabeled test substance is used for bioavailability measurements, these measurements shall be extended to include relevant metabolites of-hexane. These test substances shall contain at least 40 liquid volume percent but no more than 55 liquid volume percent-hexane and no less than 10 liquid volume percent methylcyclopentane (MCP) and otherwise conform to the specifications prescribed in the American Society for Testing and Materials Designation D 1836-83 (ASTM D 1836), "Standard Specification for Commercial Hexanes", published in theASTM D 1836-83, pp. 966-967, 1986, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a).ASTM D 1863-83 is available for public inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Copies are available at the addresses in ยง 700.17(b)(1) and (2) of this chapter. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval, and a notice of any change in this material will be published in the
