
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 795 - PROVISIONAL TEST GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Provisional Health Effects Guidelines
###### ยง 795.232 Inhalation and dermal pharmacokinetics of commercial hexane.
####### n

(B) For the unlabeled test substance, information on lot number and the percentage of MCP and-hexane.

(C) Results of chromatography.

(iii) A full description of the sensitivity, precision, and accuracy of all procedures used to obtain the data.

(iv) Percent and rate of absorption of the test substance after inhalation and dermal exposures.

(v) Quantity and percent recovery of radioactivity in feces, urine, expired air, and blood. For dermal studies, include recovery data for skin and residual radioactivity in the covering apparatus.

(vi) Tissue distribution reported as quantity of radioactivity in blood, in various tissues including bone, brain, fat, gastrointestinal tract, gonads, heart, kidney, liver, lung, muscle, skin, spleen, thymus, and in residual carcass.

(vii) Biotransformation pathways, to the extent possible, and quantities of the test substances and metabolites in excreta collected after administering single high and low doses.

(viii) Biotransformation pathways, to the extent possible, and quantities of test substances and metabolites in excreta collected after administering repeated low doses.

(ix) Pharmacokinetics models to the extent they can be developed from the experimental data.
