
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 796 - CHEMICAL FATE TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Physical and Chemical Properties
###### ยง 796.1950 Vapor pressure.
####### Gas saturation procedure.

(ii)(A) The test procedures require the use of a constant-temperature box as depicted in the following Figure 1.

(B) Solid samples are loaded into 5 mm i.d. glass tubing between glass wool plugs. The following Figure 2 depicts a drawing of a sample holder and absorber system.

(C) Liquid samples are contained in a holder as shown in the following Figure 3.

(D) At very low vapor pressures and sorbent loadings, adsorption of the chemical on the glass wool separating the sample and the sorbent and on the glass surfaces may be a serious problem. Therefore, very low loadings should be avoided whenever possible. Incoming nitrogen gas (containing no interfering impurities) passes through a coarse frit and bubbles through a 38 cm column of liquid sample. The stream passes through a glass wool column to trap aerosols and then through a sorbent tube, as described above. The pressure drop across the glass wool column and the sorbent tube are negligible.

(E) With both solid and liquid samples, at the end of the sampling time, the front and backup sorbent sections are analyzed separately. The compound on each section is desorbed by adding the sorbent from that section to 1.0 ml of desorption solvent in a small vial and allowing the mixture to stand at a suitable temperature until no more test compound desorbs. It is extremely important that the desorption solvent contain no impurities which would interfere with the analytical method of choice. The resulting solutions are analyzed quantitatively by a suitable analytical method to determine the weight of sample desorbed from each section. The choice of the analytical method, sorbent, and desorption solvent is dictated by the nature of the test material. Commonly used sorbents include charcoal, Tenax GC, and XAD-2. Describe in detail the sorbent, desorption solvent, and analytical methods employed.

(F) Measure the desorption efficiency for every combination of sample, sorbent, and solvent used. The desorption efficiency is determined by injecting a known mass of sample onto a sorbent and later desorbing it and analyzing for the mass recovered. For each combination of sample, sorbent, and solvent used, carry out the determination in triplicate at each of three concentrations. Desorption efficiency may vary with the concentration of the actual sample and it is important to measure the efficiency at or near the concentration of sample under gas saturation test procedure conditions.

(G) To assure that the gas is indeed saturated with test compound vapor, sample each compound at three differing gas flow rates. Appropriate flow rates will depend on the test compound and test temperature. If the calculated vapor pressure shows no dependence on flow rate, then the gas is assumed to be saturated.
