
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 796 - CHEMICAL FATE TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Physical and Chemical Properties
###### ยง 796.1950 Vapor pressure.
####### Principle of the test methods.

(3)(i) The isoteniscope procedure uses a standardized technique [ASTM 1978] that was developed to measure the vapor pressure of certain liquid hydrocarbons. The sample is purified within the equipment by removing dissolved and entrained gases until the measured vapor pressure is constant, a process called "degassing." Impurities more volatile than the sample will tend to increase the observed vapor pressure and thus must be minimized or removed. Results are subject to only slight error for samples containing nonvolatile impurities.

(ii) Gas saturation (or transpiration) procedures use a current of inert gas passed through or over the test material slowly enough to ensure saturation and subsequent analysis of either the loss of material or the amount (and sometimes kind) of vapor generated. Gas saturation procedures have been described by Spencer and Cliath (1969) under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Results are easy to obtain and can be quite precise. The same procedures also can be used to study volatilization from laboratory scale environmental simulations. Vapor pressure is computed on the assumption that the total pressure of a mixture of gases is equal to the sum of the pressures of the separate or component gases and that the ideal gas law is obeyed. The partial pressure of the vapor under study can be calculated from the total gas volume and the weight of the material vaporized. If v is the volume which contains w grams of the vaporized material having a molecular weight M, and if p is the pressure of the vapor in equilibrium at temperature T (K), then the vapor pressure, p, of the sample is calculated by

(iii) In an effort to improve upon the procedure described by Spencer and Cliath (1969) under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and to determine the applicability of the gas saturation method to a wide variety of chemical types and structures, EPA has sponsored research and development work at SRI International (EPA 1982) under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The procedures described in this Test Guideline are those developed under that contract and have been evaluated with a wide variety of chemicals of differing structure and vapor pressures.
