
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 796 - CHEMICAL FATE TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Physical and Chemical Properties
###### ยง 796.1950 Vapor pressure.
####### Introduction,Background and purpose.

(a)-(1)(i) Volatilization, the evaporative loss of a chemical, depends upon the vapor pressure of chemical and on environmental conditions which influence diffusion from a surface. Volatilization is an important source of material for airborne transport and may lead to the distribution of a chemical over wide areas and into bodies of water far from the site of release. Vapor pressure values provide indications of the tendency of pure substances to vaporize in an unperturbed situation, and thus provide a method for ranking the relative volatilities of chemicals. Vapor pressure data combined with water solubility data permit the calculation of Henry's law constant, a parameter essential to the calculation of volatility from water.

(ii) Chemicals with relatively low vapor pressures, high adsorptivity onto solids, or high solubility in water are less likely to vaporize and become airborne than chemicals with high vapor pressures or with low water solubility or low adsorptivity to solids and sediments. In addition, chemicals that are likely to be gases at ambient temperatures and which have low water solubility and low adsorptive tendencies are less likely to transport and persist in soils and water. Such chemicals are less likely to biodegrade or hydrolyze and are prime candidates for atmospheric oxidation and photolysis (e.g., smog formation or stratospheric alterations). On the other hand, nonvolatile chemicals are less frequently involved in atmosphere transport, so that concerns regarding them should focus on soils and water.

(iii) Vapor pressure data are an important consideration in the design of other chemical fate and effects tests; for example, in preventing or accounting for the loss of violatile chemicals during the course of the test.
