
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 796 - CHEMICAL FATE TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Physical and Chemical Properties
###### ยง 796.1950 Vapor pressure.
####### Applicability and specificity.

(4)(i) A procedure for measuring the vapor pressure of materials released to the environment ideally would cover a wide range of vapor pressure values, at ambient temperatures. No single procedure can cover this range, so two different procedures are described in this section, each suited for a different part of the range. The isoteniscope procedure is for pure liquids with vapor pressures from 0.1 to 100 kPa. For vapor pressures of 10to 10Pa, a gas saturation procedure is to be used.

(ii) With respect to the isoteniscope method, if compounds that boil close to or form azeotropes with the test material are present, it is necessary to remove the interfering compounds and use pure test material. Impurities more volatile than the sample will tend to increase the observed vapor pressure above its true value but the purification steps will tend to remove these impurities. Soluble, nonvolatile impurities will decrease the apparent vapor pressure. However, because the isoteniscope procedure is a static, fixed-volume method in which an insignificant fraction of the liquid sample is vaporized, it is subject to only slight error for samples containing nonvolatile impurities. That is, the nonvolatile impurities will not be concentrated due to vaporization of the sample.

(iii) The gas saturation method is applicable to solid or liquid chemicals. Since the vapor pressure measurements are made at ambient temperatures, the need to extrapolate data from high temperatures is not necessary and high temperature extrapolation, which can often cause serious errors, is avoided. The method is most reliable for vapor pressures below 10Pa. Above this limit, the vapor pressures are generally overestimated, probably due to aerosol formation. Finally, the gas saturation method is applicable to the determination of the vapor pressure of impure materials.
