
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 796 - CHEMICAL FATE TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Physical and Chemical Properties
###### ยง 796.1950 Vapor pressure.
####### Performance of the tests,Isoteniscope Procedure.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2)-(i)The isoteniscope procedure described as ANSI/ASTM Method D 2879-86 is applicable for the measurement of vapor pressures of liquids with vapor pressures of 0.1 to 100 kilopascals (kPa) (0.75 to 750 torr). ASTM D 2879-86 is available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register. This material is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval and a notice of any change in this material will be published in theCopies of the incorporated material may be obtained from the Director, Environmental Assistance Division (7408), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Room E-543B, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001, or from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103. The isoteniscope method involves placing liquid sample in a thermostated bulb (the isoteniscope) connected to a manometer and a vacuum pump. Dissolved and entrained gases are removed from the sample in the isoteniscope by degassing the sample at reduced pressure. The vapor pressure of the sample at selected temperatures is determined by balancing the pressure due to the vapor of the sample against a known pressure of an inert gas. The vapor pressure of the test compound is determined in triplicate at 25 +/-0.5 &#xB0;C and at any other suitable temperatures (+/-0.5&#xB0;). It is important that additional vapor pressure measurements be made at other temperatures, as necessary, to assure that there is no need for further degassing, as described in the ASTM method.
