
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 796 - CHEMICAL FATE TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Transformation Processes
###### ยง 796.3100 Aerobic aquatic biodegradation.
####### Data and reporting,Treatment of results.

(c)-(1)(i) Test compound (10 mg carbon) is theoretically converted to 0.833 mmol CO.. Absorbed COprecipitates as BaCOfrom Ba(OH), causing a reduction in alkalinity by the equivalent of 16.67 mL of 0.1 N HCl for complete conversion of the test compound carbon to CO. Therefore, the percent theoretical COevolved from the test compound is calculated at any sampling time from the formula:

(ii) The cumulative percent COevolution at any sample time is calculated as the summation of the percent COevolved at all sample points of the test.

(iii) The percent DOC disappearance from the test compound is calculated from the following equation:

(iv) The difference between the amount of 0.1 N HCl used for the Ba(OH)titration blank samples and the Ba(OH)samples from the control units (no test compound) is an indication of the activity of the microorganisms in the test system. In general, this difference is approximately 1 to 3 mL of 0.1 N HCl at each sampling time. A finding of no difference in the titration volumes between these two samples indicates a poor inoculum. In this case, the validity of the test results is questionable and the test set shall be rerun beginning with the acclimation phase.

(v) COevolution in the reference flasks is also indicative of the activity of the microbial test system. The suggested reference compounds should all yield final COevolution values of at least 60 percent of theoretical CO. If, for any test set, the percent theoretical COevolution value for the reference flasks is outside this range, the test results are considered invalid and the test is rerun.

(vi) Inhibition by the test compound is indicated by lower COevolution in the test flasks than in the control flasks. If inhibition is noted, the study for this compound is rerun beginning with the acclimation phase. During the test phase for inhibitory compounds, the test chemical is added incrementally according to the schedule: Day 0-0.5 mg/liter as organic carbon, Day 2-1 mg/liter C, Day 4-1.5 mg/liter C, Day 7-2 mg/liter C, Day 10-5 mg/liter C. For this case, the Ba(OH)is sampled on Day 10, and weekly thereafter. The total test duration remains 28 days.

(vii) The use ofC-labeled chemicals is not required. If appropriately labeled test substance is readily available and if the investigator chooses to use this procedure with labeled test substance, this is an acceptable alternative. If this option is chosen, the investigator may use lower test substance concentrations if those concentrations are more representative of environmental levels.
