
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 796 - CHEMICAL FATE TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Transformation Processes
###### ยง 796.3500 Hydrolysis as a function of pH at 25 &#xB0;C.
####### Definitions and units.

(2)(i) "Hydrolysis" is defined as the reaction of an organic chemical with water, such that one or more bonds are broken and the reaction products of the transformation incorporate the elements of water (HO).

(ii) "Elimination" is defined in this Test Guideline to be a reaction of an organic chemical (RX) in water in which the X group is lost. These reactions generally follow the same type of rate laws that hydrolysis reactions follow and, thus, are also covered in this Test Guideline.

(iii) A "first-order reaction" is defined as a reaction in which the rate of disappearance of the chemical substance being tested is directly proportional to the concentration of the chemical substance and is not a function of the concentrations of any other substances present in the reaction mixture.

(iv) The "half-life" of a chemical is defined as the time required for the concentration of the chemical substance being tested to be reduced to one-half its initial value.

(v) "Hydrolysis" refers to a reaction of an organic chemical with water such that one or more bonds are broken and the reaction products incorporate the elements of water (HO). This type of transformation often results in the net exchange of a group X, on an organic chemical RX, for the OH group from water. This can be written as:

(A) Another result of hydrolysis can be the incorporation of both H and OH in a single product. An example of this is the hydrolysis of epoxides, which can be represented by

(B) The hydrolysis reaction can be catalyzed by acidic or basic species, including OHand HO(H). The promotion of the reaction by HOor OHis called specific acid or specific base catalysis, respectively, as contrasted with general acid or base catalysis encountered with other cationic or anionic species. Usually, the rate law for chemical RX can be written as:

(C) At a given pH, Equation 2 under paragraph (a)(2)(v)(B) of this section contains three unknowns, k, k, and k. Therefore, three equations (i.e., measurements at three different pH's at a fixed temperature) are required if one wishes to solve for these quantities. Making suitable approximations for quantities that are negligible, the expressions for k, k, and kusing values of kmeasured at pH 3, 7, and 11 are:

(D) The equations under paragraph (a)(2) of this section apply whether the test chemical has one or more hydrolyzable groups. In the latter case, the rate may be written as:
