
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1050 Algal acute toxicity test.
####### Analytical measurements,Chemical.

(6)-(i)(A) Glass distilled or deionized water shall be used in the preparation of the nutrient medium. The pH of the test solution shall be measured in the control and test containers at the beginning and at the end of the definitive test. The concentration of test chemical in the test containers shall be determined at the beginning and end of the definitive test by standard analytical methods which have been validated prior to the test. An analytical method is unacceptable if likely degradation products of the chemical, such as hydrolysis and oxidation products, give positive or negative interference.

(B) At the end of the test and after aliquots have been removed for algal growth-response determinations, microscopic examination, mortal staining, or subculturing, the replicate test containers for each chemical concentration may be pooled into one sample. An aliquot of the pooled sample may then be taken and the concentration of test chemical determined. In addition, the concentration of test chemical associated with the algae alone should be determined. Separate and concentrate the algal cells from the test solution by centrifuging or filtering the remaining pooled sample and measure the test substance concentration in the algal-cell concentrate.
