
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1050 Algal acute toxicity test.
####### Selenastrum,Skeletonema

(ii) Algae should be exposed to five or more concentrations of the test chemical in a geometric series in which the ratio is between 1.5 and 2.0 (e.g., 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 64 mg/l). Algae shall be placed in a minimum of three replicate test containers for each concentration of test chemical and control. More than three replicates may be required to provide sufficient quantities of test solution for determination of test substance concentration at the end of the test. Each test chamber should contain equal volumes of test solution and approximately 1 x 10cells/ml or 7.7 x 10cells/ml of test solution. The chemical concentrations should result in greater than 90 percent of algal growth being inhibited or stimulated at the highest concentrations of test substance compared to controls.

(iii) Every test shall include a control consisting of the same nutrient medium, conditions, procedures, and algae from the same culture, except that none of the test substance is added. If a carrier is present in any of the test chambers, a separate carrier control is required.

(iv) The test begins when algae from 5- to 10-day-old stock cultures are placed in the test chambers containing test solutions having the appropriate concentrations of the test substance. Algal growth in controls should reach the logarithmic growth phase by 96 hours. If logarithmic growth cannot be demonstrated, the test shall be repeated. At the end of 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours the algal growth response (number or weight of algal cells/ml) in all test containers and controls shall be determined by an indirect (spectrophotometry, electronic cell counters, dry weight, etc.) or a direct (actual microscopic cell count) method. Indirect methods shall be calibrated by a direct microscopic count. The percentage inhibition or stimulation of growth for each concentration, EC, EC, ECand the concentration-response curves are determined from these counts.

(v) At the end of the definitive test, the following additional analyses of algal growth response shall be performed:

(A) Determine whether the altered growth response between controls and test algae was due to a change in relative cell numbers, cell sizes or both. Also note any unusual cell shapes, color differences, flocculations, adherence of algae to test containers, or aggregation of algal cells.
