
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1050 Algal acute toxicity test.
####### Reporting.,Good Laboratory Practice Standards of this Chapter,

(e)The sponsor shall submit to the EPA all data developed by the test that are suggestive or predictive of acute phytotoxicity. In addition to the general reporting requirements prescribed in part 792-the following shall be reported:

(1) Detailed information about the test organisms, including the scientific name, method of verification, and source.

(2) A description of the test chambers and containers, the volumes of solution in the containers, the way the test was begun (e.g., conditioning, test substance additions, etc.), the number of replicates, the temperature, the lighting, and method of incubation, oscillation rates, and type of apparatus.

(3) The concentration of the test chemical in the control and in each treatment at the end of the test and the pH of the solutions.

(4) The number of algal cells per milliliter in each treatment and control and the method used to derive these values at the beginning, 24, 48, and 72 hours, and end of the test; the percentage of inhibition or stimulation of growth relative to controls; and other adverse effect in the control and in each treatment.

(5) The 96-hour EC, EC, and ECvalues, and when sufficient data have been generated, the 24, 48, and 72 hour LC's and 95 percent confidence limits, the methods used to derive these values, the data used to define the shape of the concentration-response curve and the goodness-of-fit determination.

(6) Methods and data records of all chemical analyses of water quality and test substance concentrations, including method validations and reagent blanks.

(7) The results of any optional analyses such as: Microscopic appearance of algae, size or color changes, percent mortality of cells and the fate of subcultured cells, the concentration of test substance associated with algae and test solution supernate or filtrate.

(8) If the range-finding test showed that the highest concentration of the chemical tested (not less than 1000 mg/l or saturation concentration) had no effect on the algae, report the results and concentration and a statement that the chemical is of minimum phytotoxic concern.

(9) If the range-finding test showed greater than a 50 percent inhibition of algal growth at a test concentration below the analytical detection limit, report the results, concentration, and a statement that the chemical is phytotoxic below the analytical detection limit.
