
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1300 Daphnid acute toxicity test.
####### Test procedures,Summary of the test.

(c)-(1)(i) Test chambers are filled with appropriate volumes of dilution water. In the flow-through test, the flow of dilution water through each chamber is adjusted to the rate desired. The test chemical is introduced into each treatment chamber. The addition of test chemical in the flow-through system is conducted at a rate which is sufficient to establish and maintain the desired concentration in the test chamber. The test is started within 30 minutes after the test chemical has been added and uniformly distributed in static test chambers or after the concentration of test chemical in each flow-through test chamber reaches the prescribed level and remains stable. At the initiation of the test, daphnids which have been cultured and acclimated in accordance with the test design are randomly placed into the test chambers. Daphnids in the test chambers are observed periodically during the test, the immobile daphnids removed, and the findings recorded.

(ii) Dissolved oxygen concentration, pH, temperature, the concentration of test chemical and other water quality parameters are measured at specified intervals in selected test chambers. Data are collected during the test to develop concentration-response curves and determine ECvalues for the test chemical.

(2) [Reserved]
