
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1300 Daphnid acute toxicity test.
####### Definitive test.

(4)(i) The purpose of the definitive test is to determine the concentration-response curves and the 24- and 48-hour ECvalues with the minimum amount of testing beyond the range-finding test.

(ii) A minimum of 20 daphnids per concentration shall be exposed to five or more concentrations of the chemical chosen in a geometric series in which the ratio is between 1.5 and 2.0 (e.g., 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 64 mg/l). An equal number of daphnids shall be placed in two or more replicates. If solvents, solubilizing agents or emulsifiers have to be used, they shall be commonly used carriers and shall not possess a synergistic or antagonistic effect on the toxicity of the test chemical. The concentration of solvent should not exceed 0.1 mg/l. The concentration ranges shall be selected to determine the concentration-response curves and ECvalues at 24 and 48 hours. Concentration of test chemical in test solutions should be analyzed prior to use.

(iii) Every test shall include controls consisting of the same dilution water, conditions, procedures and daphnids from the same population (culture container), except that none of the chemical is added.

(iv) The dissolved oxygen concentration, temperature and pH shall be measured at the beginning and end of the test in each chamber.

(v) The test duration is 48 hours. The test is unacceptable if more than 10 percent of the control organisms are immobilized during the 48-hour test period. Each test chamber shall be checked for immobilized daphnids at 24 and 48 hours after the beginning of the test. Concentration-response curves and 24-hour and 48-hour ECvalues for immobilization shall be determined along with their 95 percent confidence limits.

(vi) In addition to immobility, any abnormal behavior or appearance shall also be reported.

(vii) Test organisms shall be impartially distributed among test chambers in such a manner that test results show no significant bias from the distributions. In addition, test chambers within the testing area shall be positioned in a random manner or in a way in which appropriate statistical analyses can be used to determine the variation due to placement.

(viii) The concentration of the test chemical in the chambers should be measured as often as is feasible during the test. In the static test the concentration of test chemical shall be measured, at a minimum, at the beginning of the test and at the end of the test in each test chamber. In the flow-through test the concentration of test chemical shall be measured at a minimum:

(A) In each chamber at the beginning of the test and at 48 hours after the start of the test;

(B) In at least one appropriate chamber whenever a malfunction is detected in any part of the test substance delivery system.

(5) [Reserved]
