
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1300 Daphnid acute toxicity test.
####### Reporting.,Good Laboratory Practice Standards

(e)The sponsor shall submit to the U.S. EPA all data developed by the test that are suggestive or predictive of acute toxicity and all concomitant gross toxicological manifestations. In addition to the reporting requirements prescribed in part 792-of this chapter, the reporting of test data shall include the following:

(1) The name of the test, sponsor, testing laboratory, study director, principal investigator, and dates of testing.

(2) A detailed description of the test chemical including its source, lot number, composition (identity and concentration or major ingredients and major impurities), known physical and chemical properties and any carriers or other additives used and their concentrations.

(3) The source of the dilution water, its chemical characteristics (e.g., conductivity, hardness, pH, etc.) and a description of any pretreatment.

(4) Detailed information about the daphnids used as brood stock, including the scientific name and method of verification, age, source, treatments, feeding history, acclimation procedures, and culture method. The age of the daphnids used in the test shall be reported.

(5) A description of the test chambers, the volume of solution in the chambers, the way the test was begun (e.g., conditioning, test chemical additions), the number of test organisms per test chamber, the number of replicates per treatment, the lighting, the method of test chemical introduction or the test substance delivery system and the flow rate (in flow-through test) expressed as volume additions per 24 hours.

(6) The concentration of the test chemical in each test chamber at times designated for static and flow-through tests.

(7) The number and percentage of organisms that were immobilized or showed any adverse effects in each test chamber at each observation period.

(8) Utilizing the average measured test chemical concentration, concentration-response curves should be fitted to immobilization data at 24 and 48 hours. A statistical test of goodness-of-fit should be performed and the results reported.

(9) The 24- and 48-hour ECvalues and their respective 95 percent confidence limits using the mean measured test chemical concentration and the methods used to calculate both the ECvalues and their confidence limits.

(10) All chemical analyses of water quality and test chemical concentrations, including methods, method validations and reagent blanks.

(11) The data records of the culture, acclimation and test temperatures.

(12) Any deviation from this test guideline and anything unusual about the test, e.g., diluter failure, temperature fluctuations, etc.
