
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1330 Daphnid chronic toxicity test.
####### Test procedures,Summary of the test.

(c)-(1)(i) Test chambers are filled with appropriate volumes of dilution water. In the flow-through test the flow of dilution water through each chamber is then adjusted to the rate desired. The test substance is introduced into each test chamber. The addition of test substance in the flow-through system is done at a rate which is sufficient to establish and maintain the desired concentration of test substance in the test chamber.

(ii) The test is started within 30 minutes after the test substance has been added and uniformly distributed in the test chambers in the renewal test or after the concentration of test substance in each test chamber of the flow-through test system reaches the prescribed level and remains stable. At the initiation of the test, daphnids which have been cultured or acclimated in accordance with the test design, are randomly placed into the test chambers. Daphnids in the test chambers are observed periodically during the test, immobile adults and offspring produced are counted and removed, and the findings are recorded. Dissolved oxygen concentration, pH, temperature, the concentration of test substance, and other water quality parameters are measured at specified intervals in selected test chambers. Data are collected during the test to determine any significant differences (p&#x2264;0.05) in immobilization and reproduction as compared to the control.

(2) [Reserved]
