
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1330 Daphnid chronic toxicity test.
####### Definitive test.

(4)(i) The purpose of the definitive test is to determine concentration-response curves, ECvalues and effects of a chemical on immobilization and reproduction during chronic exposure.

(ii) A minimum of 20 daphnids per concentration shall be exposed to five or more concentrations of the chemical chosen in a geometric series in which the ratio is between 1.5 and 2.0 (e.g., 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64 mg/l). An equal number of daphnids shall be placed in two or more replicates. The concentration ranges shall be selected to determine the concentration-response curves, ECvalues and MATC. Solutions shall be analyzed for chemical concentration at designated times during the test.

(iii) Every test shall include controls consisting of the same dilution water, conditions, procedures and daphnids from the same population (culture container), except that none of the chemical is added.

(iv) The test duration is 21 days. The test is unacceptable if:

(A) More than 20 percent of the control organisms appear to be immobilized, stressed or diseased during the test.

(B) Each control daphnid living the full 21 days produces an average of less than 60 young.

(C) Any ephippia are produced by control animals.

(v) The number of immobilized daphnids in each chamber shall be recorded on day 21 of the test. After offspring are produced, they shall be counted and removed from the test chambers every 2 or 3 days. Concentration-response curves, ECvalues and associated 95 percent confidence limits for adult immobilization shall be determined for day 21. An MATC shall be determined for the most sensitive test criteria measured (number of adult animals immobilized, number of young per adult, and number of immobilized young per adult).

(vi) In addition to immobility, any abnormal behavior or appearance shall also be reported.

(vii) Test organisms shall be impartially distributed among test chambers in such a manner that test results show no significant bias from the distributions. In addition, test chambers within the testing area shall be positioned in a random manner as in a way in which appropriate statistical analyses can be used to determine the variation due to placement.

(5) [Reserved]
