
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1330 Daphnid chronic toxicity test.
####### Reporting.,Good Laboratory Practice Standards

(e)The sponsor shall submit to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency all data developed by the test that are suggestive or predictive of chronic toxicity and all associated toxicologic manifestations. In addition to the reporting requirements prescribed in the part 792-of this chapter the reporting of test data shall include the following:

(1) The name of the test, sponsor, testing laboratory, study director, principal investigator, and dates of testing.

(2) A detailed description of the test substance including its source, lot number, composition (identity and concentration of major ingredients and major impurities), known physical and chemical properties, and any carriers or other additives used and their concentrations.

(3) The source of the dilution water, its chemical characteristics (e.g., conductivity, hardness, pH), and a description of any pretreatment.

(4) Detailed information about the daphnids used as brood stock, including the scientific name and method of verification, age, source, treatments, feeding history, acclimation procedures, and culture methods. The age of the daphnids used in the test shall be reported.

(5) A description of the test chambers, the volume of solution in the chambers, the way the test was begun (e.g., conditioning, test substance additions), the number of test organisms per test chamber, the number of replicates per treatment, the lighting, the renewal process and schedule for the renewal chronic test, the test substance delivery system and flow rate expressed as volume additions per 24 hours for the flow-through chronic test, and the method of feeding (manual or continuous) and type of food.

(6) The concentration of the test substance in test chambers at times designated for renewal and flow-through tests.

(7) The number and percentage of organisms that show any adverse effect in each test chamber at each observation period.

(8) The cumulative adult and offspring immobilization values and the progeny produced at designated observation times, the time (days) to first brood and the number of offspring per adult in the control replicates and in each treatment replicate.

(9) All chemical analyses of water quality and test substance concentrations, including methods, method validations and reagent blanks.

(10) The data records of the culture, acclimation, and test temperatures.

(11) Any deviation from this test guideline, and anything unusual about the test, (e.g., dilution failure, temperature fluctuations).

(12) The MATC to be reported is calculated as the geometric mean between the lowest measured test substance concentration that had a significant (p&#x2264;0.05) effect and the highest measured test substance concentration that had no significant (p&#x2264;0.05) effect on day 21 of the test. The most sensitive of the test criteria (number of adult animals immobilized, the number of young per female and the number of immobilized young per female) is used to calculate the MATC. The criterion selected for MATC computation is the one which exhibits an effect (a statistically significant difference between treatment and control groups; p&#x2264;0.05) at the lowest test substance concentration for the shortest period of exposure. Appropriate statistical tests (analysis of variance, mean separation test) shall be used to test for significant test substance effects. The statistical tests employed and the results of these tests shall be reported.

(13) Concentration-response curves utilizing the average measured test substance concentration shall be fitted to cumulative adult immobilization data at 21 days. A statistical test of goodness-of-fit shall be performed and the results reported.

(14) An ECvalue based on adult immobilization with corresponding 95 percent confidence limits when sufficient data are present for day 21. These calculations shall be made using the average measured concentration of the test substance.
