
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1400 Fish acute toxicity test.
####### Definitive test.

(4)(i) A minimum of 20 fish should be exposed to each of five or more test substance concentrations. The range of concentrations to which the fish are exposed should be such that in 96 hours there are at least two partial mortality exposures bracketing 50 percent survival.

(ii) For exposure to each concentration of a test substance, an equal number of test fish shall be placed in two or more replicate test chambers. Test fish shall be impartially distributed among test chambers in such a manner that test results show no significant bias from the distributions.

(iii) Every test shall include a control consisting of the same dilution water, conditions, procedures, and fish from the same group used in the test, except that none of the test substance is added.

(iv) Mortality data collected during the test are used to calculate a 96-hour LC. The 24-, 48-, and 72-hour values should be calculated whenever there is sufficient mortality data to determine such values. If the 96-hour LCis less than 50 percent of the estimated 48-hour LCin a flow-through test, the test shall be continued until the mean increase in mortality at any test concentration does not exceed 10 percent over a 24-hour period or until 14 days.

(v) Test fish shall not be fed while they are being exposed to the test substance under static conditions or during the first 96 hours of flow-through testing. If the test continues past 96 hours, the fish should be fed a suitable food at a maintenance level every other day beginning on test day 5. Any excess food and the fecal material should be removed when observed.
