
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1400 Fish acute toxicity test.
####### Test results.

(5)(i) Death is the primary criterion used in this test guideline to evaluate the toxicity of the test substance.

(ii) In addition to death, any abnormal behavior such as, but not limited to, erratic swimming, loss of reflex, increased excitability, lethargy, or any changes in appearance or physiology such as discoloration, excessive mucous production, hyperventilation, opaque eyes, curved spine, or hemorrhaging shall be recorded.

(iii) Observations on compound solubility shall be recorded. The investigator shall report the appearance of surface slicks, precipitates, or material adhering to the sides of the test chamber.

(iv) Each test and control chamber shall be checked for dead fish and observations recorded at 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours after the beginning of the test or within one hour of the designated times. If the test is continued past 96 hours, additional observations shall be made every 24 hours until termination.

(v) The mortality data is used to calculate LC's and their 95 percent confidence limits, and to plot concentration-response curves for each time interval whenever sufficient data exists. The methods recommended for use in calculating LC's include probit, logit, binomial, and moving average angle.

(vi) A test is unacceptable if more than 10 percent of the control fish die or exhibit abnormal behavior during a 96-hour test. If a flow-through test is continued past 96 hours, the maximum allowable additional mortality is 10 percent.
