
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1400 Fish acute toxicity test.
####### 4

() Equal aliquots of test solution may be removed from each replicate chamber and pooled for analysis.

(B) Filters and their holders used for determining the dissolved test substance concentrations should be prewashed with several volumes of distilled water and undergo a final rinse with test solution. Glass or stainless steel filter holders are best for organic test substances, while plastic holders are best for metals. The sample should be filtered within 30 minutes after it is taken from the test chamber.

(C) The analytical methods used to measure the amount of test substance in a sample shall be validated before beginning the test. The accuracy of a method should be verified by a method such as using known additions. This involves adding a known amount of the test substance to three water samples taken from a chamber containing dilution water and the same number and species of fish as are used in the test. The nominal concentration of the test substance in those samples should span the concentration range to be used in the test.

(D) An analytical method is not acceptable if likely degradation products of the test substance give positive or negative interferences, unless it is shown that such degradation products are not present in the test chambers during the test.

(E) In addition to analyzing samples of test solution, at least one reagent blank, containing all reagents used, should also be analyzed.

(F) If the measured concentrations of dissolved test substance are considerably lower (e.g., <50 percent) than the nominal concentrations, the total test substance concentration should be measured in the highest test concentration.

(G) Among replicate test chambers, the measured concentrations shall not vary more than 20 percent. The measured concentration of the test substance in any chamber during the test should not vary more than 30 percent from the measured concentration at time 0.

(H) The mean measured concentration of test substance shall be used to calculate all LC's and to plot all concentration-response curves.
