
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1400 Fish acute toxicity test.
####### Reporting.,Good Laboratory Practice Standards

(e)The sponsor shall submit to the EPA all data developed by the test that are suggestive or predictive of toxicity. In addition to the reporting requirements prescribed in part 792-of this chapter, the reported test data shall include the following:

(1) The source of the dilution water, a description of any pretreatment, and the measured hardness, acidity, alkalinity, pH, conductivity, TOC or COD and particulate matter.

(2) A description of the test chambers, the depth and volume of solution in the chamber, the specific way the test was begun (e.g., conditioning, test substance additions), and for flow-through tests, a description of the test substance delivery system.

(3) Detailed information about the test fish, including the scientific name and method of verification, average weight (grams, wet weight), standard length, age, source, history, observed diseases, treatments, and mortalities, acclimation procedures, and food used.

(4) The number of replicates used, the number of organisms per replicate, the loading rate, and the flow rate for flow-through tests.

(5) The measured DO, pH and temperature and the lighting regime.

(6) The solvent used, the test substance concentration in the stock solution, the highest solvent concentration in the test solution and a description of the solubility determinations in water and solvents if used.

(7) The concentrations of the test substance at each test concentration just before the start of the test and at all subsequent sampling periods.

(8) The number of dead and live tests organisms, the percentage of organisms that died, and the number that showed any abnormal effects in the control and in each test chamber at each observation period.

(9) The 96-hour LC, and when sufficient data have been generated, the 24-, 48-, 72-, and incipient LCvalues, their 95 percent confidence limits, and the methods used to calculate the LCvalues and their confidence limits.

(10) When observed, the observed no effect concentration (the highest concentration tested at which there were no mortalities or abnormal behavioral or physiological effects).

(11) The concentration-response curve at each observation period for which a LCwas calculated.

(12) Methods and data records of all chemical analyses of water quality parameters and test substance concentrations, including method validations and reagent blanks.
