
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1400 Fish acute toxicity test.
####### Dilution water.

(vi)(A) Clean surface or ground water reconstituted water, or dechlorinated tap water is acceptable as dilution water if the test fish will survive in it for the duration of the holding, acclimating, and testing periods without showing signs of stress, such as discoloration, hemorrhaging, disorientation or other unusual behavior. The quality of the dilution water should be constant and should meet the following specifications measured at least twice a year:

(B) The concentration of dissolved oxygen in the dilution water should be between 90 and 100 percent saturation; 9.8 to 10.9 mg/l for tests with trout, and 8.0 to 8.9 mg/l for tests with bluegill or fathead minnow at sea level. If necessary, the dilution water can be aerated before the addition of the test substance. All reconstituted water should be aerated before use. Buffered soft water should be aerated before but not after the addition of buffers.

(C) If disease organisms are present in the dilution water in sufficient numbers to cause infection, they should be killed or removed by suitable equipment.

(D) Glass distilled or carbon filtered deionized water with a conductivity less than 1 micromho/cm is acceptable for use in making reconstituted water. If the reconstituted water is prepared from a ground or surface water source, conductivity, and total organic carbon (TOC) or chemical oxygen demand (COD) should be measured on each batch.
