
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Test Procedures,Summary of test.

(c)-(1)(i) The early life stage toxicity test with fish involves exposure of newly fertilized embryos to various concentrations of a test substance. Exposure continues for 28 days post hatch for the minnows and 60 days post hatch for the trout species. During this time various observations and measurements are made in a specific manner and schedule in order to determine the lowest effect and highest no-effect concentrations of the test substance.

(ii) A minimum of five exposure (treatment) concentrations of a test substance and one control are required to conduct an early life stage toxicity test. The concentration of the test substance in each treatment is usually 50 percent of that in the next higher treatment level.

(iii) For each exposure concentration of the test substance and for each control (i.e., regular control and carrier control is required) there shall be:

(A) At least two replicate test chambers, each containing one or more embryo incubation trays or cups; and there shall be no water connections between the replicate test chambers;

(B) At least 60 embryos divided equally in such a manner that test results show no significant bias from the distributions, between the embryo incubation trays or cups for each test concentration and control (i.e., 30 per embryo cup with 2 replicates);

(C) All surviving larvae divided equally between the test chambers for each test concentration and control (e.g., 30 larvae per test chamber with 2 replicates).
