
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Definitions.,Good Laboratory Practice Standards,

(b)The definitions in section 3 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and the definitions in part 792-apply to this section. In addition, the following definitions are applicable to this specific test guideline:

(1) "Acclimation" physiological or behavioral adaptation of organisms to one or more environmental conditions associated with the test method (e.g., temperature, hardness, pH).

(2) "Carrier" solvent or other agent used to dissolve or improve the solubility of the test substance in dilution water.

(3) "Conditioning" exposure of construction materials, test chambers, and testing apparatus to dilution water or to the test solution prior to the start of the test in order to minimize the sorption of test substance onto the test facilities or the leachig of substances from test facilities into the dilution water or the test solution.

(4) "Control" an exposure of test organisms to dilution water only or dilution water containing the test solvent or carrier (no toxic agent is intentionally or inadvertently added).

(5) "Dilution water" the water used to produce the flow-through conditions of the test to which the test substance is added and to which the test species is exposed.

(6) "Early life stage toxicity test" a test to determine the minimum concentration of a substance which produces a statistically significant observable effect on hatching, survival, development and/or growth of a fish species continuously exposed during the period of their early development.

(7) "Embryo cup" a small glass jar or similar container with a screened bottom in which the embryos of some species (i.e., minnow) are placed during the incubation period and which is normally oscillated to ensure a flow of water through the cup.

(8) "Flow through" refers to the continuous or very frequent passage of fresh test solution through a test chamber with no recycling.

(9) "Hardness" the total concentration of the calcium and magnesium ions in water expressed as calcium carbonate (mg CaCO/liter).

(10) "Loading" the ratio of biomass (grams of fish, wet weight) to the volume (liters) of test solution passing through the test chamber during a specific interval (normally a 24-hr. period).

(11) "No observed effect concentration (NOEC)" the highest tested concentration in an acceptable early life stage test: (i) which did not cause the occurrence of any specified adverse effect (statistically different from the control at the 95 percent level); and (ii) below which no tested concentration caused such an occurrence.

(12) "Observed effect concentration (OEC)" the lowest tested concentration in an acceptable early life stage test: (i) Which caused the occurrence of any specified adverse effect (statistically different from the control at the 95 percent level); and (ii) above which all tested concentrations caused such an occurrence.

(13) "Replicate" two or more duplicate tests, samples, organisms, concentrations, or exposure chambers.

(14) "Stock solution" the source of the test solution prepared by dissolving the test substance in dilution water or a carrier which is then added to dilution water at a specified, selected concentration by means of the test substance delivery system.

(15) "Test chamber" the individual containers in which test organisms are maintained during exposure to test solution.

(16) "Test solution" dilution water with a test substance dissolved or suspended in it.

(17) "Test substance" the specific form of a chemical substance or mixture that is used to develop data.
