
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Initiation of fry exposure.

(iii)(A) Forty-eight hours after the first hatch in each treatment level, or when hatching is completed, the live young fish shall be counted and transferred from each embryo cup into the appropriate test chamber. For silverside, all surviving fry are not counted until six days after hatching and are not transferred to embryo cups. All of the normal and abnormal fry shall be gently released into the test chamber by allowing the fry to swim out of each embryo cup; nets shall not be used. The trout embryos incubated on screen trays will hatch out in the test chambers, therefore handling of fish is not necessary.

(B) If necessary, fry can be transferred from one replicate embryo cup to the other replicate within a test concentration to achieve equal numbers in each replicate chamber.

(C) The number of live fry, live normal fry, live embryos, dead embryos and unaccounted for embryos for each cup shall be recorded when hatching is deemed complete. Those fry which are visibly (without the use of a dissecting scope or magnifying viewer) lethargic or grossly abnormal (either in swimming behavior or physical appearance) shall be counted. Late hatching embryos shall be left in the embryo cups to determine if they will eventually hatch or not. The range of time-to-hatch (to the nearest day) for each cup shall be recorded.
