
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Embryo incubation procedures.

(ii)(A) Embryos can be distributed to the embryo cups or screen trays using a pipette with a large bore or a similar apparatus. Newly-hatched silverside fry are very sensitive to handling; the egg incubation cups should not be handled at all the first 5 days after hatching begins. Just before hatching is expected to begin, the embryos should be transferred to clean incubation cups. Trout embryos can be distributed by using a small container which has been precalibrated to determine the approximate number of embryos it can hold; embryos are measured volumetrically in this manner, and are then poured onto the screen tray (or embryo cup). Trout embryos should be separated on the screen tray so that they are not in contact with each other. A final count will ensure the actual number on the screen tray. After random assignment, the screen trays or embryo cups are placed in the test chambers.

(B) Each day until hatch the embryos are visually examined. Minnow embryos may be examined with the aid of a magnifying viewer. Trout embryos should not be touched. Trout embryos should be maintained in low intensity light or in darkness until 1-week post hatch, and are usually examined with the aid of a flashlight or under low intensity light. Dead embryos should be removed and discarded. Any embryos which are heavily infected with fungus shall be discarded and shall be subtracted from the initial number of embryos used as a basis for the calculations of percentage hatch.

(C) When embryos begin to hatch they should not be handled.
