
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Definitive test,General.

(4)-(i)(A) A test shall not be initiated until after the test conditions have been met and the test substance delivery system has been observed functioning properly for 48-hours. This includes temperature stability, flow requirements of dilution water, lighting requirements, and the function of strainers and air traps included in the water-supply system, and other conditions as specified previously.

(B) New holding and test facilities should be tested with sensitive organisms (i.e., juvenile test species or daphnids) before use to assure that the facilities or substances possibly leaching from the equipment will not adversely affect the test organisms during an actual test.

(C) Embryos should be acclimated for as long as practical to the test temperature and dilution water prior to the initiation of the test.

(D) When embryos are received from an outside culture source (i.e., rainbow and brook trout) at a temperature at variance with the recommended test temperature they shall be acclimated to the test temperature. When eggs are received, they should be immediately unpacked and the temperature of the surrounding water determined. Sudden temperature changes should be avoided. Acclimation to the appropriate test temperature should be accomplished within a period of 6 hours, and should incorporate the use of dilution water.

(E) Embryos should be visually inspected prior to placement in the embryo cups or screen trays. All dead embryos shall be discarded. Dead embryos can be discerned by a change in coloration from that of living embryos (e.g., trout embryos turn white when dead). During visual inspection, empty shells, opaque embryos, and embryos with fungus or partial shells attached shall be removed and discarded. If less than 50 percent of the eggs to be used appear to be healthy, all embryos in such a lot shall be discarded.
