
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Biological data.

(x)(A) Death of embryos shall be recorded daily.

(B) When hatching commences, daily records of the number of embryos remaining in each embryo cup are required. This information is necessary to quantify the hatching success. A record of all deformed larvae shall be kept throughout the entire post-hatch exposure. Time to swim-up shall be recorded for the trout. Upon transfer of fry from the embryo cups to the test chambers, daily counts of the number of live fish should be made. At a minimum, live fish shall be counted on days 4, 11, 18, 25 and (weekly thereafter for the trout species) finally on termination of the test.

(C) The criteria for death of young fish is usually immobility, especially absence of respiratory movement, and lack of reaction to gentle prodding. Deaths should be recorded daily and dead fish removed when discovered.

(D) Daily and at termination of the test, the number of fish that appear (without the use of a magnifying viewer) to be abnormal in behavior (e.g., swimming erratic or uncoordinated, obviously lethargic, hyperventilating, or over excited, etc.) or in physical appearance (e.g., hemorrhaging, producing excessive mucous, or are discolored, deformed, etc.) shall be recorded and reported in detail.

(E) All physical abnormalities (e.g., stunted bodies, scoliosis, etc.) shall be photographed and the deformed fish which die, or are sacrificed at the termination of the test, shall be preserved for possible future pathological examination.

(F) At termination, all surviving fish shall be measured for growth. Standard length measurements should be made directly with a caliper, but may be measured photographically. Measurements shall be made to the nearest millimeter (0.1 mm is desirable). Weight measurements shall also be made for each fish alive at termination (wet, blotted dry, and to the nearest 0.01 g for the minnows and 0.1 g for the trout). If the fish exposed to the toxicant appear to be edematous compared to control fish, determination of dry, rather than wet, weight is recommended.

(G) Special physiological, biochemical and histological investigations on embryos, fry, and juveniles may be deemed appropriate and shall be performed on a case by case basis.
