
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Acceptability criteria.

(iii)(A) An early life stage toxicity test is not acceptable unless at least one of the following criteria is significantly different (p = 0.05) from control organisms when compared with treated organisms, and the responses are concentration-dependent: mortality of embryos, hatching success, mortality of fry (at swim-up for trout), total mortality throughout the test, and growth (i.e. weight). If no significant effects occur, but the concentrations tested were the highest possible due to solubility or other physio-chemical limitations, the data will be considered for acceptance.

(B) In addition to obtaining significant effects on the exposed test species, a measure of acceptability in the response of control fish is also required.

(C) A test is not acceptable if the average survival of the control fish at the end of the test is less than 80 percent or if survival in any one control chamber is less than 70 percent. For silversides, a test is not acceptable if the average overall survival of the control embryos and fish at the end of the test is less than 60 percent.

(D) If a carrier is used, the criteria for effect (mortality of embryos and fry, growth, etc.) used in the comparison of control and exposed test organisms shall also be applied to the control and control with carrier chambers. For the test to be considered acceptable, no significant difference shall exist between these criteria.

(E) A test is not acceptable if the relative standard deviation (RSD = 100 times the standard deviation divided by the mean) of the weights of the fish that were alive at the end of the test in any control test chamber is greater than 40 percent.
