
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Test substance measurement.

(iv)(A) Prior to the addition of the test substance to the dilution water, it is recommended that the test substance stock solution be analyzed to verify the concentration. After addition of the test substance, the concentration of test substance should be measured at the beginning of the test in each test concentration and control(s), and at least once a week thereafter. Equal aliquots of test solution may be removed from each replicate chamber and pooled for analysis. If a malfunction in the delivery system is discovered, water samples shall be taken from the affected test chambers immediately and analyzed.

(B) The measured concentration of test substance in any chamber should be no more than 30 percent higher or lower than the concentration calculated from the composition of the stock solution and the calibration of the test substance delivery system. If the difference is more than 30 percent, the concentration of test substance in the solution flowing into the exposure chamber (influent) should be analyzed. These results will indicate whether the problem is in the stock solution, the test substance delivery system or in the test chamber. Measurement of degradation products of the test substance is recommended if a reduction of the test substance concentration occurs in the test chamber.
