
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Sampling and analysis methodology.

(v)(A) Generally, total test substance measurements are sufficient; however, the chemical characteristics of the test substance may require both dissolved and suspended test substance measurements.

(B) For measurement of the test substance, water samples shall be taken midway between the top, bottom, and sides of the test chamber and should not include any surface scum or material stirred up from the bottom or sides. Samples of test solutions shall be handled and stored appropriately to minimize loss of test substance by microbial degradation, photodegradation, chemical reaction, volatilization, or sorption.

(C) Chemical and physical analyses shall be performed using standardized methods whenever possible. The analytical method used to measure the concentration of the test substance in the test solution shall be validated before the beginning of the test. At a minimum, a measure of the accuracy of the method should be obtained on each of two separate days by using the method of known additions, and using dilution water from a tank containing test organisms. Three samples should be analyzed at the next-to-lowest test substance concentration. It is also desirable to study the accuracy and precision of the analytical method for test guideline determination by use of reference (split) samples, or interlaboratory studies, and by comparison with alternative, reference, or corroborative methods of analysis.

(D) An analytical method is not acceptable if likely degradation products of the test substance, such as hydrolysis and oxidation products, give positive or negative interferences, unless it is shown that such degradation products are not present in the test chambers during the test. In general, atomic absorption spectrophotometric methods for metals and gas chromatographic methods for organic compounds are preferable to colorimetric methods.

(E) In addition to analyzing samples of test solution, at least one reagent blank also should be analyzed when a reagent is used in the analysis. Also, at least one sample for the method of known additions should be prepared by adding test substance at the concentration used in the toxicity test.
