
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Menidia peninsulae

(F) Tidewater silverside ().

(ii) Embryos used to initiate the early life stage test shall be less than 48 hours old for the fathead and sheepshead minnows, silversides, and less than 96 hours old for the brook trout and rainbow trout. In addition, the following requirements shall be met:

(A) All embryos used in the test shall be from the same source. Embryos shall be obtained from a stock cultured in-house when possible, and maintained under the same parameters as specified for the test conditions. When it is necessary to obtain embryos from an external source, caution should be exercised to ensure embryo viability and to minimize the possibility of fungal growth. A description of the brood stock history or embryo source shall be made available to EPA upon request.

(B) Test species shall be cared for and handled properly in order to avoid unnecessary stress. To maintain test species in good condition and to maximize growth, crowding shall be prevented, and the dissolved oxygen level shall be maintained near saturation.

(C) Embryos and fish shall be handled as little as possible. Embryos shall be counted and periodically inspected until hatching begins. When larvae begin to hatch, they shall not be handled. Transfer of minnow larvae from embryo cups to test chambers shall not involve the use of nets. No handling is necessary following introduction into the test chambers until termination of the test.

(D) If fathead minnow embryos are obtained from in-house culture units, the embryos should be gently removed from the spawning substrate. The method for separating the fertilized eggs from the substrate is important and can affect the viability of the embryos; therefore the finger-rolling procedure is recommended.

(E) Disease treatment. Chemical treatments to cure or prevent diseases should not be used before, and should not be used during a test. All prior treatments of brood stock should be reported in detail. Severely diseased organisms should be destroyed.
