
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Test substance delivery system.

(iv)(A) The choice of a specific delivery system depends upon the specific properties and requirements of the test substance. The apparatus used should accurately and precisely deliver the appropriate amount of stock solution and dilution water to the test chambers. The system selected shall be calibrated before each test. Calibration includes determining the flow rate through each chamber, and the proportion of stock solution to dilution water delivered to each chamber. The general operation of the test substance delivery system shall be checked at least twice daily for normal operation throughout the test. A minimum of five test substance concentrations and one control shall be used for each test.

(B) The proportional diluter and modified proportional diluter systems and metering pump systems have proven suitable and have received extensive use.

(C) Mixing chambers shall be used between the diluter and the test chamber(s). This may be a small container or flow-splitting chamber to promote mixing of test substance stock solution and dilution water, and is positioned between the diluter and the test chambers for each concentration. If a proportional diluter is used, separate delivery tubes shall run from the flow-splitting chamber to each replicate test chamber. Daily checks on this latter system shall be made.

(D) Silverside fry are injured easily and are susceptible to impingement on the mesh of the incubation cups. Consequently, water flow into and out of the cups when counting fry must be at a slow rate. This can be accomplished by using small diameter (e.g., 2 mm I.D.) capillary tubes to drain the test solution from spitter boxes into the replicate test chambers. The use of a self-starting siphon to gradually lower (i.e., less than or equal to 1 min.) the water level approximately 2 cm in the test chamber is recommended. A minimum water depth of 5 cm should be maintained in the cups. Although it may be satisfactory, a rocker-arm type apparatus has not yet been used with silversides.
