
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Embryo incubation apparatus.

(iii)(A) Recommended embryo incubation apparatus include embryo cups for the minnow species and screen trays for the trout species, although embryo cups can be used for the trout species. Embryo cups are normally constructed from approximately 4-5 cm inside diameter, 7-8 cm high, glass jars with the end cut off or similar sized sections of polyethylene tubing. One end of the jar or tubing is covered with stainless steel or nylon screen (approximately 40 meshes per inch is recommended). Embryo cups for silversides are normally constructed by using silicone adhesive to glue a 10-cm high, 363-um nylon mesh tube inside a 9-cm I.D. glass Petri dish bottom. The embryo cups shall be appropriately labeled and then suspended in the test chamber in such a manner as to ensure that the test solution regularly flows through the cup and that the embryos are always submerged but are not agitated too vigorously. Cups may be oscillated by a rocker arm apparatus with a low rpm motor (e.g., 2 rpm) to maintain the required flow of test water. The vertical-travel distance of the rocker arm apparatus during oscillation is normally 2.5-4.0 cm. The water level in the test chambers may also be varied by means of a self-starting siphon in order to ensure exchange of water in the embryo cups.

(B) The trout embryo incubation trays can be made from stainless steel screen (or other acceptable material such as plastic) of about 3-4 mm mesh. The screen tray should be supported above the bottom of the test chamber by two folds of screen or other devices which function as legs or supports. The edges of the screen tray should be turned up to prevent bump spills and to prevent the embryos from rolling off in the event of excessive turbulence. Suspending or supporting the screen tray off the bottom ensures adequate water circulation around the embryos and avoids contact of embryos with possible bottom debris.
