
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1600 Fish early life stage toxicity test.
####### Reporting.

(e)A report of the results of an early life stage toxicity test shall include the following:

(1) Name of test, sponsor, investigator, laboratory, and dates of test duration.

(2) Detailed description of the test substance including its source, lot number, composition (identity and concentration of major ingredients and major impurities), known physical and chemical properties, and any carriers (solvents) or other additives used.

(3) The source of the dilution water, its chemical characteristics, and a description of any pretreatment.

(4) Detailed information about the test organisms including scientific name and how verified and source history, observed diseases, treatments, acclimation procedure, and concentration of any contaminants and the method of measurement.

(5) A description of the experimental design and the test chambers, the depth and volume of the solution in the chambers, the way the test was begun, the number of organisms per treatment, the number of replicates, the loading, the lighting, a description of the test substance delivery system, and the flow rate as volume additions per 24 hours.

(6) Detailed information on feeding of fish during the toxicity test, including type of food used, its source, feeding frequency and results of analysis (i.e., concentrations) for contaminants.

(7) Number of embryos hatched, number of healthy embryos, time to hatch, mortality of embryos and fry, measurements of growth (weight and length), incidence of pathological or histological effects and observations of other effects or clinical signs, number of healthy fish at end of test.

(8) Number of organisms that died or showed an effect in the control and the results of analysis for concentration(s) of any contaminant in the control(s) should mortality occur.

(9) Methods used for, and the results of (with standard deviation), all chemical analyses of water quality and test substance concentration, including validation studies and reagent blanks; the average and range of the test temperature(s).

(10) Anything unusual about the test, any deviation from these procedures, and any other relevant information.

(11) A description of any abnormal effects and the number of fish which were affected during each period between observations in each chamber, and the average concentration of test substance in each test chamber.

(12) Reference to the raw data location.
