
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1930 Mysid shrimp acute toxicity test.
####### Definitive test.

(4)(i) The purpose of the definitive test is to determine the concentration-response curves and the 48- and 96-hour LCvalues with the minimum amount of testing beyond the range-finding test.

(ii) The definitive test shall be conducted on the mysid life stage (juveniles or young adults) which is most sensitive to the test substance being evaluated.

(iii) A minimum of 20 mysids per concentration shall be exposed to five or more concentrations of the chemical chosen in a geometric series in which the ratio is between 1.5 and 2.0 (e.g., 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 64 mg/l). An equal number of mysids shall be placed in two or more replicates. If solvents, solubilizing agents or emulsifiers have to be used, they shall be commonly used carriers and shall not possess a synergistic or antagonistic effect on the toxicity of the test substance. The concentration of solvent shall not exceed 0.1 ml/1. The concentration ranges shall be selected to determine the concentration-response curves and LCvalues at 48 and 96 hours.

(iv) Every test shall include controls consisting of the same dilution water, conditions, procedures, and mysids from the same population or culture container, except that none of the chemical is added.

(v) The dissolved oxygen concentration temperature, salinity, and pH shall be measured at the beginning and end of the test in each chamber.

(vi) The test duration is 96 hours. The test is unacceptable if more than 10 percent of the control organisms die or exhibit abnormal behavior during the 96 hour test period. Each test chamber should be checked for dead mysids at 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours after the beginning of the test. Concentration-response curves and 24-, 48-, 72- and 96-hour LCvalues should be determined along with their 95 percent confidence limits.

(vii) In addition to death, any abnormal behavior or appearance shall also be reported.

(viii) Test organisms shall be impartially distributed among test chambers in such a manner that test results show no significant bias from the distributions. In addition, test chambers within the testing area shall be positioned in a random manner or in a way in which appropriated statistical analyses can be used to determine the variation due to placement.

(ix) The concentration of the test substance in the chambers should be measured as often as is feasible during the test. At a minimum, during static tests the concentration of test substance shall be measured at each concentration at the beginning and at the end of the test. During the flow-through test, the concentration of test substance should be measured at the beginning and end of the test and in at least one appropriate chamber whenever a malfunction is detected in any part of the test substance delivery system. Equal aliquots of test solution may be removed from each replicate chamber and pooled for analysis. Among replicate test chambers of a treatment concentration, the measured concentration of the test substance should not vary more than 20 percent.

(5) [Reserved]
