
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1950 Mysid shrimp chronic toxicity test.
####### Definitions.,Good Laboratory Practice Standards

(b)The definitions in section 3 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and in part 792-of this chapter apply to this test guideline. The following definitions also apply to this guideline:

(1) "Chronic toxicity test" means a method used to determine the concentration of a substance that produces an adverse effect from prolonged exposure of an organism to that substance. In this test, mortality, number of young per female and growth are used as measures of chronic toxicity.

(2) "Death" means the lack of reaction of a test organism to gentle prodding.

(3) "Flow-through" means a continuous or an intermittent passage of test solution or dilution water through a test chamber or a holding or acclimation tank, with no recycling.

(4) "G1 (Generation 1)" means those mysids which are used to begin the test, also referred to as adults; G2 (Generation 2) are the young produced by G1.

(5) "LC" means that experimentally derived concentration of test substance that is calculated to kill 50 percent of a test population during continuous exposure over a specified period of time.

(6) "Loading" means the ratio of test organism biomass (gram, wet weight) to the volume (liters) of test solution in a test chamber.

(7) "MATC" (Maximum Acceptable Toxicant Concentration) means the maximum concentration at which a chemical can be present and not be toxic to the test organism.

(8) "Retention chamber" means a structure within a flow-through test chamber which confines the test organisms, facilitating observation of test organisms and eliminating washout from test chambers.
