
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1930 Mysid shrimp acute toxicity test.
####### Reporting.,Good Laboratory Practice Standards

(e)The sponsor shall submit to the EPA all data developed during the test that are suggestive or predictive of acute toxicity and all concomitant toxicologic manifestations. In addition to the general reporting requirements prescribed in part 792-of this chapter, the reporting of test data shall include the following:

(1) The source of the dilution water, its chemical characteristics (e.g., salinity, pH, etc.) and a description of any pretreatment.

(2) Detailed information about the test organisms, including the scientific name and method of verification, age, source, history, abnormal behavior, acclimation procedures and food used.

(3) A description of the test chambers, the depth and volume of solution in the chamber, the way the test was begun (e.g., conditioning, test substance additions, etc.), the number of organisms per treatment, the number of replicates, the loading, the lighting, the test substance delivery system and the flow rate expressed as volume additions per 24 hours.

(4) The measured concentration of test substance in test chambers at the times designated.

(5) The number and percentage of organisms that died or showed any other adverse effects in the control and in each treatment at each observation period.

(6) Concentration-response curves shall be fitted to mortality data collected at 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours. A statistical test of goodness-of-fit shall be performed and the results reported.

(7) The 96-hour LCand when sufficient data have been generated, the 24-, 48-, and 72-hour LC's and the corresponding 95-percent confidence limits and the methods used to calculate the values. These calculations shall be made using the average measured concentration of the test substance.

(8) Methods and data records of all chemical analyses of water quality and test substance concentrations, including method validations and reagent blanks.

(9) The data records of the holding, acclimation and test temperature and salinity.
