
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1950 Mysid shrimp chronic toxicity test.
####### Definitive test.

(4)(i) The purpose of the definitive test is to determine concentration-response curves, LCvalues, and effects of a chemical on growth and reproduction during chronic exposure.

(ii) A minimum of 40 mysids per concentration shall be exposed to four or more concentrations of the chemical chosen in a geometric series in which the ratio is between 1.5 and 2.0 (e.g., 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 64 mg/1). An equal number of mysids shall be placed in two or more replicates. If solvents, solubilizing agents or emulsifiers have to be used, they shall be commonly used carriers and shall not possess a synergistic or antagonistic effect on the toxicity of the test substance. The concentration of solvent should not exceed 0.1 ml/1. The concentration ranges should be selected to determine the concentration response curves, LCvalues and MATC. Concentration of test substance in test solutions should be analyzed prior to use.

(iii) Every test should include controls consisting of the same dilution water, conditions, procedures and mysids from the same population or culture container, except that none of the chemical is added.

(iv) The dissolved oxygen concentration, temperature, salinity, and pH shall be measured weekly in each chamber.

(v) The test duration is 28 days. The test is unacceptable if more than 20 percent of the control organisms die, appear stressed or are diseased during the test. The number of dead mysids in each chamber shall be recorded on days 7, 14, 21, and 28 of the test. At the time when sexual characteristics are discernible in the mysids (approximately 10 to 12 days in controls; possible delays may occur in mysids exposed to test substances), the number of males and females (identified by ventral brood pouch) in each chamber shall be recorded. Body length (as measured by total midline body length, from the anterior tip of the carapace to the posterior margin of the uropod) shall be recorded for males and females at the time when sex can be determined simultaneously for all mysids in control and treatment groups. This time cannot be specified because of possible delays in sexual maturation of mysids exposed to test substances. A second observation of male and female body lengths shall be conducted on day 28 of the test. To reduce stress on the mysids, body lengths can be recorded by photography through a stereomicroscope with appropriate scaling information. As offspring are produced by the G1 mysids (approximately 13 to 16 days in controls), the young shall be counted and separated into retention chambers at the same test substance concentration as the chambers where they originated. If available prior to termination of the test, observations on the mortality, number of males and females and male and female body length shall be recorded for the G2 mysids. Concentration-response curves, LCvalues and associated 95 percent confidence limits for the number of dead mysids (G1) shall be determined for days 7, 14, 21, and 28. An MATC shall be determined for the most sensitive test criteria measured (cumulative mortality of adult mysids, number of young per female, and body lengths of adult males and females).

(vi) In addition to death, any abnormal behavior or appearance shall also be reported.

(vii) Test organisms shall be impartially distributed among test chambers in such a manner that test results show no significant bias from the distributions. In addition, test chambers within the testing area shall be positioned in a random manner or in a way in which appropriate statistical analyses can be used to determined the variation due to placement.

(viii) The concentration of the test substance in the chambers should be measured as often as is feasible during the test. The concentration of test substance shall be measured:

(A) At each test concentration at the beginning of the test and on days 7, 14, 21, and 28; and

(B) In at least one appropriate chamber whenever a malfunction is detected in any part of the test substance delivery system.

(5) [Reserved]
