
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 797 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart B - Aquatic Guidelines
###### ยง 797.1950 Mysid shrimp chronic toxicity test.
####### Reporting.,Good Laboratory Practice Standards

(e)The sponsor shall submit to the EPA all data developed by the test that are suggestive or predictive of chronic toxicity and all concomitant toxicologic manifestations. In addition to the general reporting requirements prescribed in part 792-of this chapter, the reporting of test data shall include the following:

(1) The source of the dilution water, its chemical characteristics (e.g., salinity, pH, etc.) and a description of any pretreatment.

(2) Detailed information about the test organisms, including the scientific name and method of verification, average length, age, source, history, observed diseases, treatments, acclimation procedures and food used.

(3) A description of the test chambers, the depth and volume of solution in the chamber, the way the test was begun (e.g., conditioning, test substance additions, etc.), the number of organisms per treatment, the number of replicates, the loading, the lighting, the test substance delivery system, and the flow rate expressed as volume additions per 24 hours.

(4) The measured concentration of test substance in test chambers at the times designated.

(5) The first time (day) that sexual characteristics can be observed in controls and in each test substance concentration.

(6) The length of time for the appearance of the first brood for each concentration.

(7) The means (average of replicates) and respective 95 percent confidence intervals for:

(i) Body length of males and females at the first observation day (depending on time of sexual maturation) and on day 28.

(ii) Cumulative number of young produced per female on day 28.

(iii) Cumulative number of dead adults on day 7, 14, 21 and 28.

(iv) If available prior to test termination (day 28), effects on G2 mysids (number of males and females, body length of males and females and cumulative mortality).

(8) The MATC is calculated as the geometric mean between the lowest measured test substance concentration that had a significant (P<0.05) effect and the highest measured test substance concentration that had no significant (P<0.05) effect in the chronic test. The most sensitive of the test criteria for adult (Gl) mysids (cumulative number of dead mysids, body lengths of males and females or the number of young per female) is used to calculate the MATC. The criterion selected for MATC computation is the one which exhibits an effect (a statistically significant difference between treatment and control groups; P<0.05) at the lowest test substance concentration for the shortest period of exposure. Appropriate statistical tests (analysis of variance, mean separation test) should be used to test for significant chemical effects. The statistical tests employed and the results of these tests shall be reported.

(9) Concentration-response curves shall be fitted to the cumulative number of adult dead for days 7, 14, 21, and 28. A statistical test of goodness-of-fit shall be performed and the results reported.

(10) An LCvalue based on the number of dead adults with corresponding 95 percent confidence intervals for days 7, 14, 21 and 28. These calculations shall be made using the average measured concentration of the test substance.

(11) Methods and data records of all chemical analyses of water quality and test substance concentrations, including method validations and reagent blanks.

(12) The data records of the holding, acclimation and test temperature and salinity.
