
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart C - Subchronic Exposure
###### ยง 798.2450 Inhalation toxicity.
####### Definitions.

(b)(1) Subchronic inhalation toxicity is the adverse effects occurring as a result of the repeated daily exposure of experimental animals to a chemical by inhalation for part (approximately 10 percent) of a life span.

(2) Aerodynamic diameter applies to the size of particles of aerosols. It is the diameter of a sphere of unit density which behaves aerodynamically as the particle of the test substance. It is used to compare particles of different size and densities and to predict where in the respiratory tract such particles may be deposited. This term is used in contrast to measured or geometric diameter which is representative of actual diameters which in themselves cannot be related to deposition within the respiratory tract.

(3) The geometric mean diameter or the median diameter is the calculated aerodynamic diameter which divides the particles of an aerosol in half based on the weight of the particles. Fifty percent of the particles by weight will be larger than the median diameter and 50 percent of the particles will be smaller than the median diameter. The median diameter describes the particle size distribution of any aerosol based on the weight and size of the particles.

(4) Inhalable diameter refers to that aerodynamic diameter of a particle which is considered to be inhalable for the organism. It is used to refer to particles which are capable of being inhaled and may be deposited anywhere within the respiratory tract from the trachea to the alveoli. For man, inhalable diameter is considered as 15 micrometers or less.

(5) Dose refers to an exposure level. Exposure is expressed as weight or volume of test substance per volume of air (mg/l), or as parts per million (ppm).

(6) No-effect level/No-toxic-effect level/No-adverse-effect level/No-observed-effect level is the maximum dose used in a test which produces no observed adverse effects. A no-observed-effect level is expressed in terms of weight or volume of test substance given daily per unit volume of air (mg/l or ppm).

(7) Cumulative toxicity is the adverse effects of repeated doses occuring as a result of prolonged action on, or increased concentration of the administered test substance or its metabolites in susceptible tissues.
