
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart C - Subchronic Exposure
###### ยง 798.2450 Inhalation toxicity.
####### Inhalation exposure.

(7)(i) The animals shall be tested in inhalation equipment designed to sustain a minimum dynamic air flow of 12 to 15 air changes per hour and ensure an adequate oxygen content of 19 percent and an evenly distributed exposure atmosphere. Where a chamber is used, its design should minimize crowding of the test animals and maximize their exposure to the test substance. This is best accomplished by individual caging. To ensure stability of a chamber atmosphere, the total "volume" of the test animals shall not exceed 5 percent of the volume of the test chamber. Oronasal or head-only exposure may be used if it is desirable to avoid concurrent exposure by the dermal or oral routes.

(ii) A dynamic inhalation system with a suitable flow control system shall be used. The rate of air flow shall be adjusted to ensure that conditions throughout the exposure chamber are essentially the same. Maintenance of slight negative pressure inside the chamber will prevent leakage of the test substance into surrounding areas.

(iii) The temperature at which the test is performed should be maintained at 22 &#xB0;C (+/-2&#xB0;). Ideally, the relative humidity should be maintained between 40 to 60 percent, but in certain instances (e.g., tests of aerosols, use of water vehicle) this may not be practicable.
