
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart C - Subchronic Exposure
###### ยง 798.2450 Inhalation toxicity.
####### Dose levels and dose selection.

(4)(i) In subchronic toxicity tests, it is desirable to have a concentration-response relationship as well as a no-observed-toxic-effect level. Therefore, at least 3 concentration levels with a control and, where appropriate, a vehicle control (corresponding to the concentration of vehicle at the highest exposure level) shall be used. Concentrations should be spaced appropriately to produce test groups with a range of toxic effects. The data should be sufficient to produce a concentration-response curve.

(ii) The highest concentration should result in toxic effects but not produce an incidence of fatalities which would prevent a meaningful evaluation.

(iii) The lowest concentration should not produce any evidence of toxicity. Where there is a usable estimation of human exposure the lowest concentration should exceed this.

(iv) Ideally, the intermediate concentration level(s) should produce minimal observable toxic effects. If more than one intermediate concentration level is used, the concentrations should be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects.

(v) In the low and intermediate groups and in the controls the incidence of fatalities should be low, to permit a meaningful evaluation of the results.

(vi) In the case of potentially explosive test substances, care should be taken to avoid generating explosive concentrations.
