
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart C - Subchronic Exposure
###### ยง 798.2650 Oral toxicity.
####### Administration of the test substance.

(7)(i) The test substance may be administered in the diet or in capsules. In addition, for rodents it may also be administered by gavage or in the drinking water.

(ii) All animals shall be dosed by the same method during the entire experimental period.

(iii) Where necessary, the test substance is dissolved or suspended in a suitable vehicle. If a vehicle or diluent is needed, ideally it should not elicit important toxic effects itself nor substantially alter the chemical or toxicological properties of the test substance. It is recommended that wherever possible the usage of an aqueous solution be considered first, followed by consideration of a solution of oil and then by possible solution in other vehicles.

(iv) For substances of low toxicity, it is important to ensure that when administered in the diet the quantities of the test substance involved do not interfere with normal nutrition. When the test substance is administered in the diet either a constant dietary concentration (ppm) or a constant dose level in terms of the animals' body weight shall be used; the alternative used shall be specified.

(v) For a substance administered by gavage or capsule, the dose shall be given at approximately the same time each day, and adjusted at intervals (weekly or bi-weekly) to maintain a constant dose level in terms of animal body weight.
