
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Chronic Exposure
###### ยง 798.3260 Chronic toxicity.
####### Observation of animals.

(7)(i) Each animal should be handled and its physical condition appraised at least once each day.

(ii) Additional observations should be made daily with appropriate actions taken to minimize loss of animals to the study (e.g., necropsy or refrigeration of those animals found dead and isolation or sacrific of weak or moribund animals).

(iii) Clinical signs of toxicity including suspected tumors and mortality should be recorded as they are observed, including the time of onset, the degree and duration.

(iv) Cage-side observations should include, but not be limited to, changes in skin and fur, eyes and mucous membranes, respiratory, circulatory, autonomic and central nervous systems, somatomotor activity and behavior pattern.

(v) Body weights should be recorded individually for all animals once a week during the first 13 weeks of the test period and at least once every 4 weeks thereafter unless signs of clinical toxicity suggest more frequent weighings to facilitate monitoring of health status.

(vi) When the test substance is administered in the feed or drinking water, measurements of feed or water consumption, respectively, should be determined weekly during the first 13 weeks of the study and then at approximately monthly intervals unless health status or body weight changes dictate otherwise.

(vii) At the end of the study period all survivors should be sacrificed. Moribund animals should be removed and sacrificed when noticed.
