
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Chronic Exposure
###### ยง 798.3300 Oncogenicity.
####### Inhalation studies.

(iii)(A) The animals shall be tested with inhalation equipment designed to sustain a minimum dynamic air flow of 12 to 15 air changes per hour, ensure an adequate oxygen content of 19 percent and an evenly distributed exposure atmosphere. Where a chamber is used, its design should minimize crowding of the test animals and maximize their exposure to the test substance. This is best accomplished by individual caging. To ensure stability of a chamber atmosphere, the total "volume" of the test animals shall not exceed 5 percent of the volume of the test chamber. Alternatively, oro-nasal, head-only, or whole-body individual chamber exposure may be used.

(B) The temperature at which the test is performed should be maintained at 22 &#xB0;C (+/-2&#xB0;). Ideally, the relative humidity should be maintained between 40 to 60 percent, but in certain instances (e.g. tests of aerosols, use of water vehicle) this may not be practicable.

(C) Feed and water shall be withheld during each daily 6-hour exposure period.

(D) A dynamic inhalation system with a suitable flow control system shall be used. The rate of air flow shall be adjusted to ensure that conditions throughout the equipment are essentially the same. Maintenance of slight negative pressure inside the chamber will prevent leakage of the test substance into the surrounding areas.
