
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Chronic Exposure
###### ยง 798.3300 Oncogenicity.
####### Gross necropsy.

(10)(i) A complete gross examination shall be performed on all animals, including those which died during the experiment or were killed in moribund conditions.

(ii) The following organs and tissues or representative samples thereof, shall be preserved in a suitable medium for possible future histopathological examination: All gross lesions and tumors of all animals shall be preserved; brain-including sections of medulla/pons, cerebellar cortex and cerebral cortex; pituitary; thyroid/parathyroid; thymus; lungs; trachea; heart; spinal cord at three levels-cervical, midthoracic and lumbar; sternum and/or femur with bone marrow; salivary glands; liver; spleen; kidneys; adrenals; esophagus; stomach; duodenum; jejunum; ileum; cecum; colon; rectum; urinary bladder; representative lymph nodes; pancreas; gonads; uterus; accessory genital organs (epididymis, prostate, and, if present, seminal vesicles); mammary gland; skin; musculature; peripheral nerve; and eyes. In inhalation studies, the entire respiratory tract shall be preserved, including nasal cavity, pharynx, larynx and paranasal sinuses. In dermal studies, skin from sites of skin painting shall be examined and preserved.

(iii) Inflation of lungs and urinary bladder with a fixative is the optimal method for preservation of these tissues. The proper inflation and fixation of the lungs in inhalation studies is required for appropriate and valid histopathological examination.

(iv) If other clinical examinations are carried out, the information obtained from these procedures shall be available before microscopic examination, since they may provide significant guidance to the pathologist.
