
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart D - Chronic Exposure
###### ยง 798.3300 Oncogenicity.
####### Observations of animals.

(7)(i) Each animal shall be observed daily and if necessary should be handled to appraise its physical condition.

(ii) Additional observations shall be made daily with appropriate actions taken to minimize loss of animals to the study (e.g., necropsy or refrigeration of those animals found dead and isolation or sacrifice of weak or moribund animals).

(iii) Clinical signs and mortality shall be recorded for all animals. Special attention should be paid to tumor development. The day of onset, location, dimensions, appearance and progression of each grossly visible or palpable tumor shall be recorded.

(iv) Body weights shall be recorded individually for all animals once a week during the first 13 weeks of the test period and at least once every 4 weeks thereafter unless signs of clinical toxicity suggest more frequent weighings to facilitate monitoring of health status.

(v) When the test substance is administered in the feed or drinking water, measurements of feed or water consumption, respectively, shall be determined weekly during the first 13 weeks of the study and then at approximately monthly intervals unless health status or body weight changes dictate otherwise.

(vi) At the end of the study period all survivors are sacrificed. Moribund animals shall be removed and sacrificed when noticed.
