
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart E - Specific Organ/Tissue Toxicity
###### ยง 798.4350 Inhalation developmental toxicity study.
####### Inhalation exposure.

(6)(i)(A) The animals shall be tested in inhalation equipment designed to sustain a minimum dynamic air flow of 12 to 15 air changes per hour and ensure an adequate oxygen content of 19 percent and an evenly distributed exposure atmosphere. Where a chamber is used, its design should minimize crowding of the test animals and maximize their exposure to the test substance. This is best accomplished by individual caging. To ensure stability of a chamber atmosphere, the total "volume" of the test animals shall not exceed 5 percent of the volume of the test chamber.

(B) Pregnant animals shall not be subjected to beyond the minimum amount of stress. Since whole-body exposure appears to be the least stressful mode of exposure, it is the method preferred. In general oro-nasal or head-only exposure, which is sometimes used to avoid concurrent exposure by the dermal or oral routes, is not recommended because of the associated stress accompanying the restraining of the animals. However, there may be specific instances where it may be more appropriate than whole-body exposure. The tester shall provide justification/reasoning for its selection.

(ii) A dynamic inhalation system with a suitable flow control system shall be used. The rate of air flow shall be adjusted to ensure that conditions throughout the exposure chamber are essentially the same. Test material distribution should be established before animals are committed to dosing. Maintenance of slight negative pressure inside the chamber will prevent leakage of the test substance into the surrounding areas.

(iii) The temperature at which the test is performed should be maintained at 22 &#xB0;C (+/-2&#xB0;) for rodents or 20 &#xB0;C (+/-3&#xB0;) for rabbits. Ideally, the relative humidity should be maintained between 40 to 60 percent, but in certain instances (e.g., tests of aerosols, use of water vehicle) this may not be practicable.
