
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart E - Specific Organ/Tissue Toxicity
###### ยง 798.4350 Inhalation developmental toxicity study.
####### Concentration levels and concentration selection.

(3)(i) At least three concentration levels with a control and, where appropriate, a vehicle control, shall be used.

(ii) The vehicle shall neither be developmentally toxic nor have effects on reproduction.

(iii) To select the appropriate concentration levels, a pilot or trial study may be advisable. Since pregnant animals have an increased minute ventilation as compared to non-pregnant animals, it is recommended that the trial study be conducted in pregnant animals. Similarly, since presumably the minute ventilation will vary with progression of pregnancy, the animals should be exposed during the same period of gestation as in the main study. In the trial study, the concentration producing embryonic or fetal lethalities or maternal toxicity should be determined.

(iv) Unless limited by the physical/chemical nature or biological properties of the substance, the highest concentration level shall induce some overt maternal toxicity such as reduced body weight or body weight gain, but not more than 10 percent maternal deaths.

(v) The lowest concentration level should not produce any grossly observable evidence of either maternal or developmental toxicity.

(vi) Ideally, the intermediate concentration level(s) shall produce minimal observable toxic effects. If more than one intermediate concentration is used, the concentration levels shall be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects.
