
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart E - Specific Organ/Tissue Toxicity
###### ยง 798.4700 Reproduction and fertility effects.
####### Exposure conditions.

(4)The animals should be dosed with the test substance, ideally, on a 7 days per week basis.

(i) Dosing, mating, delivery, and sacrifice schedule.

(A) Daily dosing of the parental (P) males and females shall begin when they are 5 to 8 weeks old. For both sexes, dosing shall be continued for at least 10 weeks before the mating period.

(B) Dosing of P males shall continue through the 3 week mating period. At the end of the mating period, P males may be sacrificed and examined, or may be retained for possible production of a second litter. If these animals are retained for a second litter, dosing shall be continued. Dosing of the Fmales saved for mating shall continue from the time they are weaned through the period they are mated with the Ffemales (11 weeks). Fmales may be sacrificed after the Fmating period.

(C) Daily dosing of the P females shall continue through the three week mating period, pregnancy, and to the weaning of the Foffspring. Dosing of the Ffemales saved for mating shall continue from the time they are weaned, through the period they are mated with the Fmales (11 weeks from the time of weaning) pregnancy, and to the weaning of the Foffspring.

(ii) All animals are sacrificed as scheduled.

(A) All P males should be sacrificed at the end of the 3-week mating period, or may be retained for possible production of a second litter. If these animals are retained for a second litter, dosing shall be continued.

(B) Fmales selected for mating should be sacrificed at the end of the three week period of the Fmating.

(C) Fmales and females not selected for mating should be sacrified when weaned.

(D) The P females should be sacrificed upon weaning of their Foffspring.

(E) Fdams and their Foffspring are sacrificed when the offspring are weaned.
