
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart E - Specific Organ/Tissue Toxicity
###### ยง 798.4900 Developmental toxicity study.
####### Dose levels and dose selection.

(3)(i) At least 3 dose levels with a control and, where appropriate, a vehicle control, shall be used.

(ii) The vehicle shall neither be developmentally toxic nor have effects on reproduction.

(iii) To select the appropriate dose levels, a pilot or trial study may be advisable. It is not always necessary to carry out a trial study in pregnant animals. Comparison of the results from a trial study in non-pregnant, and the main study in pregnant animals will demonstrate if the test substance is more toxic in pregnant animals. If a trial study is carried out in pregnant animals, the dose producing embryonic or fetal lethalities or maternal toxicity shall be determined.

(iv) Unless limited by the physical/chemical nature or biological properties of the substance, the highest dose level shall induce some overt maternal toxicity such as reduced body weight or body weight gain, but not more than 10 percent maternal deaths.

(v) The lowest dose level should not produce any grossly observable evidence of either maternal or developmental toxicity.

(vi) Ideally, the intermediate dose level(s) should produce minimal observable toxic effects. If more than one intermediate concentration is used, the concentration levels should be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects.
