
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 798 - HEALTH EFFECTS TESTING GUIDELINES
##### Subpart E - Specific Organ/Tissue Toxicity
###### ยง 798.4900 Developmental toxicity study.
####### Gross necropsy.

(8)(i) At the time of sacrifice or death during the study, the dam shall be examined macroscopically for any structural abnormalities or pathological changes which may have influenced the pregnancy.

(ii) Immediately after sacrifice or as soon as possible after death, the uterus shall be removed and the contents examined for embryonic or fetal deaths and the number of viable fetuses. The degree of resorption shall be described in order to help estimate the relative time of death of the conceptus. The weight of the gravid uterus should be recorded for dams that are sacrificed. Gravid uterine weights should not be obtained from dead animals if autolysis or decomposition has occurred.

(iii) The number of corpora lutea shall be determined for all species except mice.

(iv) The sex of the fetuses shall be determined and they shall be weighed individually, the weights recorded, and the mean fetal weight derived.

(v) Following removal, each fetus shall be examined externally.

(vi) For rats, mice and hamsters, one-third to one-half of each litter shall be prepared and examined for skeletal anomalies, and the remaining part of each litter shall be prepared and examined for soft tissue anomalies using appropriate methods.

(vii) For rabbits, each fetus shall be examined by careful dissection for visceral anomalies and then examined for skeletal anomalies.
