
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Specific Chemical Test Rules
###### § 799.1560 Diethylene glycol butyl ether and diethylene glycol butyl ether acetate.
####### iv,Special stains.

()Based on the results of the general staining, selected sites and cellular components shall be further evaluated by the use of specific techniques. If hematoxylin and eosin screening does not provide such information, a battery of stains shall be used to assess the following components in all appropriate required samples: Neuronal body (e.g., Einarson's gallocyanin), axon (e.g., Bodian), myelin sheath (e.g., Kluver's Luxol Fast Blue), and neurofibrils (e.g., Bielchosky). In addition, peripheral nerve fiber teasing may be used. Detailed staining methodology is available in standard histotechnological manuals such as Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP) (1968) under § 798.6400(f)(1), Ralis et al. (1973) under § 798.6400(f)(5), and Chang (1979) under § 798.6400(f)(2) of this chapter. The nerve fiber teasing technique is discussed in Spencer and Schaumberg (1980) under § 798.6400(f)(6) of this chapter. A section of normal tissue shall be included in each staining to assure that adequate staining has occurred. Any changes shall be noted and representative photographs shall be taken. If a lesion(s) is observed, the special techniques shall be repeated in the next lower treatment group until no further lesion is detectable.
