
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Specific Chemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.1700 Fluoroalkenes.
####### vi,Test performance.

()Cells in treatment medium with and without metabolic activation shall be exposed to varying concentrations of test gas-air mixtures by flushing treatment flasks (or chambers) with 10 volumes of test gas-air mixture at a rate of 500 mL/min or that rate which will allow complete flushing within 1 minute. In the case of a test chamber volume of 1.67 L, a flow rate of 10 L/min is appropriate. Each flask shall be closed with a cap with a rubber septum. Headspace samples shall be taken at the beginning and end of the exposure period and analyzed to determine the amount of test gas in each flask. Flasks shall be incubated on a rocker panel at 37 &#xB0;C for 5 hours for tests with metabolic activation. For the non-activated portion of the test, the incubation time shall be 18 to 19 hours at 37 &#xB0;C. At the end of the exposure period, cells treated with metabolic activation shall be washed and incubated in culture medium for 21 to 26 hours prior to subculturing the viability and expression of mutant phenotype. Cells treated without metabolic activation shall be washed and subcultured immediately to determine viability and to allow for expression of mutant phenotype. Appropriate subculture schedules (generally twice during the expression period) shall be used. At the end of the expression period, which shall be sufficient to allow near optimal phenotypic expression of induced mutants (generally 7 days for this cell system), cells shall be grown in medium with and without selective agent for determination of numbers of mutants and cloning efficiency, respectively. This last growth period is generally 7 days at 37 &#xB0;C. Results of this test shall be confirmed in an independent experiment.
