
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Specific Chemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.2155 Commercial hexane.
####### Identification of test substance.,n,1986 Annual Book of ASTM Standards: Petroleum Products and Lubricants,,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)(1) "Commercial hexane," for purposes of this section, is a product obtained from crude oil, natural gas liquids, or petroleum refinery processing in accordance with the American Society for Testing and Materials Designation D 1836-83 (ASTM D 1836), consists primarily of six-carbon alkanes or cycloalkanes, and contains at least 40 liquid volume percent-hexane (CAS No. 110-54-3) and at least 5 liquid volume percent methylcyclopentane (MCP; CAS No. 96-37-7). ASTM D 1836, formally entitled "Standard Specification for Commercial Hexanes," is published inASTM D 1836-83, pp. 966-967, 1986, is incorporated by reference, and is available for public inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval, and a notice of any change in this material will be published in theCopies of the incorporated material may be obtained from the Director, Environmental Assistance Division (7408), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E-543B, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001.
