
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Specific Chemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.2700 Methyl ethyl ketoxime.
####### References.

(d)For additional background information, the following references should be consulted.

(1) Lamb, J. and Chapin, R.E. "Experimental models of male reproductive toxicology." In: "Endocrine Toxicity." Thomas, J.A., Korach, K.S., and McLachlan, J.A., eds. New York, NY: Raven Press. pp. 85-115. (1985).

(2) Clermont, Y. and Percey, B. "Quantitative study of the cell population of the seminiferous tubules in immature rats." "American Journal of Anatomy." 100:241-267. (1957).

(3) Sadleir, R.M.F.S. "Cycles and seasons." In: "Reproduction in Mammals: I. Germ Cells and Fertilization." Austin, R. and Short R.V., eds. New York, NY: Cambridge Press. Chapter 4. (1978).

(4) Mattison, D.R. and Thorgiersson, S.S. "Ovarian aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity and primordial oocyte toxicity of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in mice." "Cancer Research." 39:3471-3475. (1979).

(5) Pederson, T. and Peters, H. "Proposal for classification of oocytes and follicles in the mouse ovary." "Journal of Reproduction and Fertility." 17:555-557. (1968).

(6) Spencer, P.S., Bischoff, M., and Schaumburg, H.H. "Neuropathological methods for the detection of neurotoxic disease." In: "Experimental and Clinical Neurotoxicology." Spencer, P.S. and Schaumburg, H.H., eds. Baltimore, MD: Williams and Wilkins, pp. 743-757 (1980).

(7) Hafez, E.S., ed., "Reproduction and Breeding Techniques for Laboratory Animals." Chapter 10. Philadelphia: Lea and Febiger. (1970).
