
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Specific Chemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.3300 Unsubstituted phenylenediamines.
####### Reporting requirements.,Drosophila melanogaster

(ii)(A) The tests shall be completed and the final reports for the MBMC assay shall be submitted to the EPA no later than January 16, 1991. The final report for the SLRL inshall be submitted no later than April 15, 1991.

(B) If required, the DL test shall be completed and the final report shall be received by EPA no later than 24 months after the effective date of this final rule.

(C) If required, the MVSL or the MBSL shall be completed and the final report shall be received by EPA no later than 51 months after EPA issues aNotice or sends a certified letter to the test sponsor(s) identified under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section specifying that testing shall be initiated.

(D) If required, the HT test shall be completed and the final report shall be submitted to EPA not later than 36 months after the date on which EPA notifies the test sponsor under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(E) of this section to begin testing.

(E) Interim reports for the SLRL assay and MBMC are required at 6-month intervals beginning 6 months after the effective date of this section. If the DL is triggered, interim reports are required at 6 month intervals beginning with the date of initiation of the study.

(F) Interim reports for the HT and either the MBSL or MVSL are required at 6-month intervals beginning 6 months after the date of notification by EPA that testing shall be initiated, and ending when the final report is submitted.
