
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Specific Chemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.4360 Tributyl phosphate.
####### Aquatic Toxicity and Hazard Assessment: Seventh Symposium,,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(B) The benthic sediment invertebrate bioassay shall be conducted according to the test procedure specified in the American Society for Testing and Materials, Special Technical Publication 854 (ASTM STP 854) entitled, "Aquatic Safety Assessment of Chemicals Sorbed to Sediments," by W.J. Adams, R.A. Kimerle, and R.G. Mosher, published inASTM STP 854, pp. 429-453, R.D. Caldwell, R. Purdy, and R.C. Bahner, Eds., 1985 which is incorporated by reference. This published procedure is available for public inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Copies may be obtained from the Director, Environmental Assistance Division (7408), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E-543B, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The method is incorporated as it exists on the effective date of this rule and a notice of any change to the method will be published in the
