
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Multichemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.5075 Drinking water contaminants subject to testing.
####### 13,Clinical biochemical determinations.

()Certain clinical biochemistry determinations on blood should be carried out at least two times: Just prior to initiation of dosing (if adequate historical baseline data are not available) and just prior to terminal sacrifice at the end of the test period. Test areas which are considered appropriate to all studies are: Electrolyte balance, carbohydrate metabolism, and liver and kidney function. The selection of specific tests will be influenced by observations on the mode of action of the substance. Suggested determinations are: Calcium, phosphorus, chloride, sodium, potassium, fasting glucose (with the period of fasting appropriate to the species), serum alanine aminotransferase, serum aspartate aminotransferase, gamma glutamyl transpeptidase, urea nitrogen, albumin, blood creatinine, and total serum protein measurements. Other determinations which may be necessary for an adequate toxicological evaluation include: analyses of lipids, hormones, acid/base balance, methemoglobin, and cholinesterase activity. Additional clinical biochemistry may be employed, where necessary, to extend the investigation of observed effects.
