
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Multichemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.5085 Chemical testing requirements for first group of high production volume chemicals (HPV1).
####### What substances will be tested under this section?

(a)Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section identifies the chemical substances that must be tested under this section. For the chemical substances identified as "Class 1" substances in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section, the purity of each chemical substance must be 99% or greater, except for 1,3-propanediol, 2,2-bis[(nitrooxy)methyl]-, dinitrate (ester) (CAS No. 78-11-5), also known as pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN). PETN cannot be tested at 99% purity because of its explosive properties. It must be diluted in water or tested as a stabilized mixture with an appropriate stabilizer (e.g., D-lactose monohydrate is the stabilizer in PETN, NF which is a mixture of 20% by weight PETN and 80% by weight D-lactose monohydrate). The stabilizer used must be tested as a control. For the chemical substances identified as "Class 2" substances in Table 2 in paragraph (j), a representative form of each chemical substance must be tested. The representative form selected for a given Class 2 chemical substance should meet industry or consensus standards where they exist.
