
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Multichemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.5085 Chemical testing requirements for first group of high production volume chemicals (HPV1).
####### How must I conduct my testing?

(h)(1) The tests that are required for each chemical substance are indicated in Table 2 in paragraph (j) of this section. The test methods that must be followed are provided in Table 3 in paragraph (j) of this section. You must proceed in accordance with these test methods as required according to Table 3 in paragraph (j) of this section, or as appropriate if more than one alternative is allowed according to Table 3 in paragraph (j) of this section. Included in Table 3 in paragraph (j) of this section are the following 11 methods which are incorporated by reference:

(i) Standard Test Method for Relative Initial and Final Melting Points and the Melting Range of Organic Chemicals, ASTM E 324-99.

(ii) Standard Test Method for Partition Coefficient (N-Octanol/Water) Estimation by Liquid Chromatography, ASTM E 1147-92. (Reapproved 1997)

(iii) Standard Guide for Conducting Acute Toxicity Tests on Test Materials with Fishes, Macroinvertebrates, and Amphibians, ASTM E 729-96. (Reapproved 2002)

(iv) Standard Test Method for Measurements of Aqueous Solubility, ASTM E 1148-02.

(v) Standard Test Method for Estimating Acute Oral Toxicity in Rats, ASTM E 1163-98. (Reapproved 2002)

(vi) Standard Guide for Conducting Daphnia Magna Life-Cycle Toxicity Tests, ASTM E 1193-97. (Reapproved 2004)

(vii) Standard Guide for Conducting Static Toxicity Tests with Microalgae, ASTM E 1218-04.

(viii) Standard Test Method for Determining Biodegradability of Organic Chemicals in Semi-Continuous Activated Sludge (SCAS), ASTM E 1625-94. (Reapproved 2001)

(ix) Standard Test Method for Vapor Pressure of Liquids by Ebulliometry, ASTM E 1719-97.

(x) Standard Test Method for Determining Vapor Pressure by Thermal Analysis, ASTM E 1782-03.

(xi) Water Quality-Evaluation of Ultimate Aerobic Biodegradability of Organic Compounds in Aqueous Medium-Static Test (Zahn-Wellens Method), Second Edition, June 1, 1999, ISO 9888-99.
