
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Multichemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.5115 Chemical testing requirements for certain chemicals of interest to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
####### Dose,Kp.

(vii)-(A)A Kp must be determined for each test chemical, except for methyl isoamyl ketone (MIAK; CAS No.: 110-12-3, Chemical Abstracts (CA) Index Name: 2-Hexanone, 5-methoxy-) and dipropylene glycol methyl ether (DPGME; CAS No.: 34590-94-8, CA Index Name: Propanol, 1(or 2)-(2-methoxymethylethoxy)-). An "infinite dose" of the test substance must be applied to the skin to achieve the steady-state rate of absorption necessary for calculation of a Kp. Infinite dose is defined as the concentration of a test substance required to give an undepletable reservoir on the surface of the skin. The actual concentration required to give an undepletable reservoir on the surface of the skin depends on the rate of penetration of the test substance. Preliminary studies may be necessary to determine this concentration. Percutaneous absorption must be determined under occluded (i.e., covered) conditions unless it is demonstrated that such conditions cause leakage of material or damage to the skin membrane as a result of unrealistically high pressures or excessive hydration. Skin barrier integrity must be verified at the end of the experiment by the methods discussed in paragraph (h)(5)(i)(D) of this section.
