
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Multichemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.5115 Chemical testing requirements for certain chemicals of interest to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
####### Short-term absorption rates.

(B)Short-term absorption rates must be determined for all test chemicals. The dose of test chemical applied to the skin must be sufficient to completely cover the exposed skin surface. A minimum of four diffusion cells must be set up using skin from a single subject. Two diffusion cells must be terminated at 10 minutes. The remaining two diffusion cells must be terminated at 60 minutes. Skin absorption at each sampling time is the sum of the receptor fluid levels and the absorbed test substance that remains in the skin, as discussed, for example, in the reference in paragraph (h)(8)(iii) of this section. Unabsorbed chemical must be removed from the skin surface by washing gently with soap and water. This experiment must be repeated with skin from two additional subjects. In order to ensure reliable short-term absorption rates, percutaneous absorption must be determined under occluded conditions unless it is demonstrated that such conditions cause leakage of material or damage to the skin membrane as a result of unrealistically high pressures or excessive hydration.
