
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Multichemical Test Rules
###### ยง 799.5115 Chemical testing requirements for certain chemicals of interest to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
####### Test systems and test methods.

(i)(A) A description of the date, time, and location of the test, the name(s) of the person(s) conducting the test, the location of records pertaining to the test, as well as a GLPS statement. These statements must be certified by the signatures of the individuals performing the work and their supervisors.

(B) A description of the source, identity, and purity of the test substance and the source, identity, and handling of the test skin. There must be a detailed description of the test procedure and all materials, devices used and doses tested, as well as a detailed description and illustration of static or flow-through cell design. There must also be a description of the skin preparation method, including measurements of the skin membrane thickness.

(C) A description of the analytical techniques to be used, including their accuracy, precision, and detection limits (in particular for non-radiolabeled tests), and, if a radiolabel is used, there must be a description of the radiolabel (e.g., type, location of, and radiochemical purity of the label).

(D) All data must be clearly identified as to dose and specimen. Derived values (means, permeability coefficient, graphs, charts, etc.) are not sufficient.
