
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Product Properties Test Guidelines
######## Principle of the test method.,n,n,n

(3)(i) This test method is based on the DCCLC technique for determining the aqueous solubility of organic compounds. The development of this test method is described in the references listed in paragraphs (e)(6), (e)(12), and (e)(19) of this section. The DCCLC technique utilizes a generator column, extractor column, and HPLC coupled or interconnected to provide a continuous closed-flow system. Aqueous solutions of the test compound are produced by pumping water through the generator column that is packed with a solid support coated with an approximately 1.0% weight/weight (w/w) solution of the compound in-octanol. The aqueous solution leaving the column represents the equilibrium concentration of the test chemical which has partitioned from the-octanol phase into the water phase. The compound is extracted from the aqueous solution onto an extractor column, then eluted from the extractor column with a solvent/water mixture and subsequently analyzed by HPLC using a variable wavelength ultraviolet (UV) absorption detector operating at a suitable wavelength. Chromatogram peaks are recorded and integrated using a recording integrator. The concentration of the compound in the effluent from the generator column is determined from the mass of the compound (solute) extracted from a measured volume of water (solvent). The Kis calculated from the ratio of the molar concentration of the solute in the 1.0% (w/w)-octanol and molar concentration of the solute in water as determined using the generator column technique.

(ii) Since the HPLC method is only applicable to compounds that absorb in the UV, an alternate GC method, or any other reliable quantitative procedure must be used for those compounds that do not absorb in the UV. In the GC method the saturated solutions produced in the generator column are extracted using an appropriate organic solvent that is subsequently injected into the GC, or any other suitable analytical device, for analysis of the test compound.
