
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Product Properties Test Guidelines
######## Reference chemicals.,n

(4)(i) Columns 2, 3, 4, and 5 of table 1 in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section list the experimental values of the decadic logarithm of the-octanol/water partition coefficient (logK) at 25 &#xB0;C for a number of organic chemicals as obtained from the scientific literature. These values were obtained by any one of the following experimental methods: Shake-flask; generator column; reverse-phase HPLC; or reverse-phase thin-layer chromatography, as indicated in the footnotes following each literature citation. The estimation method of Hawker and Connell as described in paragraph (e)(8) of this section, correlates logKwith the total surface area of the molecule and was used to estimate logKfor biphenyl and the chlorinated biphenyls. These estimated values are listed in column 7 of table 1 in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. Recommended values of logKwere obtained by critically analyzing the available experimental and estimated values and averaging the best data. These recommended values are listed in column 8 of table 1 in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The recommended values listed in table 1 of this section have been provided primarily so that the generator column method can be calibrated and to allow the chemical laboratory the opportunity to compare its results with these values. The testing laboratory has the option of choosing its reference chemicals, but references must be given to establish the validity of the measured values of logK.
