
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Product Properties Test Guidelines
######## ii

() The column consists of a 6 mm (in) O.D. pyrex tube joined to a short enlarged section of 9 mm pyrex tubing which in turn is connected to another section of 6 mm (in) O.D. pyrex tubing. Connections to the inlet teflon tubing (in O.D.) and to the outlet stainless steel tubing (in O.D.) are made by means of stainless steel fittings with teflon ferrules. The column is enclosed in a water jacket for temperature control as shown in the following figure 2:

(B) Constant temperature bath with circulation pump-bath and capable of controlling temperature to 25 +/-0.05 &#xB0;C. (Procedures A and B, as described in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (c)(3)(iv) of this section, respectively).

(C) HPLC equipped with a variable wavelength UV absorption detector operating at a suitable wavelength and a recording integrator (Procedure A, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section).

(D) Extractor column-6.6 x 0.6 centimeter (cm) stainless steel tube with end fittings containing 5 micron frits filled with a superficially porous phase packing (such as Bondapack CCorasil: Waters Associates) (Procedure A, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section).

(E) Two 6-port high-pressure rotary switching valves (Procedure A, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section).

(F) Collection vessel-8 xin section of pyrex tubing with a flat bottom connected to a short section ofin O.D. borosilicate glass tubing. The collecting vessel is sealed with ain teflon cap fitting (Procedure B, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section).

(G) GC, or any other reliable analytic equipment, equipped with a detector sensitive to the solute of interest (Procedure B, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section).
