
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Product Properties Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.6784 TSCA water solubility: Column elution method; shake flask method.
####### Method,Introduction, purpose, scope, relevance, application, and limits of test.

(c)-(1)(i) A solution is a homogeneous mixture of different substances in a solvent. The particle sizes of the dispersed substances are of the same magnitude as molecules and ions; therefore, the smallest volumes which can be obtained from a solution are always of uniform composition.

(ii) Solubility in water is a significant parameter because:

(A) The spatial and temporal movement (mobility) of a substance is largely determined by its solubility in water.

(B) Water soluble substances gain ready access to humans and other living organisms.

(C) The knowledge of the solubility in water is a prerequisite for testing biological degradation and bioaccumulation in water and for other tests.

(iii) No single method is available to cover the whole range of solubilities in water, from relatively soluble to very low-soluble chemicals. A general test guideline for the determination of the solubility in water must include methods which cover the whole range of water soluble substances. Therefore, this section includes two methods:

(A) One which applies to substances with low solubilities (<10g/L), referred to as the "column elution method."

(B) The other which applies to substances with higher solubilities (&#x2264;10g/L), referred to as the "flask method."
