
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Product Properties Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.6786 TSCA water solubility: Generator column method.
####### Introduction,Purpose.

(b)-(1)(i) The water solubility of a chemical is defined as the equilibrium concentration of the chemical in a saturated aqueous solution at a given temperature and pressure. The aqueous phase solubility is an important factor in governing the movement, distribution, and rate of degradation of chemicals in the environment. Substances that are relatively water soluble are more likely to be widely distributed by the hydrologic cycle than those which are relatively insoluble. Furthermore, substances with higher water solubility are more likely to undergo microbial or chemical degradation in the environment because dissolution makes them "available" to interact and, therefore, react with other chemicals and microorganisms. Both the extent and rate of degradation via hydrolysis, photolysis, oxidation, reduction, and biodegradation depend on a chemical being soluble in water (i.e., homogeneous kinetics).

(ii) Water provides the medium in which many organisms live, and water is a major component of the internal environment of all living organisms (except for dormant stages of certain life forms). Even organisms which are adapted to life in a gaseous environment require water for normal functioning. Water is thus the medium through which most other chemicals are transported to and into living cells. As a result, the extent to which chemicals dissolve in water will be a major determinant for movement through the environment and entry into living systems.

(iii) The water solubility of a chemical also has an effect on its sorption into and desorption from soils and sediments, and on volatilization from aqueous media. The more soluble a chemical substance is, the less likely it is to sorb to soils and sediments and the less likely it is to volatilize from water. Finally, the design of most chemical tests and many ecological and health tests requires precise knowledge of the water solubility of the chemical to be tested.
