
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Product Properties Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.6786 TSCA water solubility: Generator column method.
####### Reference chemicals.

(4)Table 1 of this section lists the water solubilities at 25 &#xB0;C for a number of reference chemicals as obtained from the scientific literature. The data from Wasik et al. (as described in the reference listed in paragraph (e)(11) of this section), Miller et al. and Tewari et al. (as described in the references listed in paragraphs (e)(7) and (e)(10) of this section, respectively) were obtained from the generator column method. The water solubilities data were also obtained from Mackay et al. and Yalkowski et al. (as described in the references listed in paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(12) of this section, respectively) and other scientists by the conventional shake flask method. These data have been provided primarily so that the generator column method can be calibrated from time to time and to allow the chemical testing laboratory an opportunity to compare its results with those listed in table 1 of this section. The water solubility values at 25 &#xB0;C reported by Yalkowski et al. are their preferred values and, in general, represent the best available water solubility data at 25 &#xB0;C. The testing laboratory has the option of choosing its own reference chemicals, but references must be given to establish the validity of the measured values of the water solubility.
