
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Product Properties Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.6786 TSCA water solubility: Generator column method.
####### Principle of the test method.

(3)(i) This test method is based on the dynamic coupled column liquid chromatographic (DCCLC) technique for determining the aqueous solubility of organic compounds that was initially developed by May et al. (as described in the references listed in paragraphs (e)(5) and (e)(6) of this section), modified by DeVoe et al. (as described in the reference listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section), and finalized by Wasik et al. (as described in the reference listed in paragraph (e)(11) of this section). The DCCLC technique utilizes a generator column, extractor column and HPLC coupled or interconnected to provide a continuous closed flow system. Saturated aqueous solutions of the test compound are produced by pumping water through the generator column that is packed with a solid support coated with the compound. The compound is extracted from the saturated solution onto an extractor column, then eluted from the extractor column with a solvent/water mixture and subsequently analyzed by HPLC using a variable wavelength ultraviolet (UV) detector operating at a suitable wavelength. Chromatogram peaks are recorded and integrated using a recording integrator. The concentration of the compound in the effluent from the generator column, i.e., the water solubility of the compound, is determined from the mass of the compound (solute) extracted from a measured volume of water (solvent).

(ii) Since the HPLC method is only applicable to compounds that absorb in the UV, an alternate GC method, or any other reliable procedure (which must be approved by OCSPP), can be used for those compounds that do not absorb in the UV. In the GC method the saturated solutions produced in the generator column are extracted using an appropriate organic solvent that is subsequently injected into the GC, or any other suitable analytical device, for analysis of the test compound.
