
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Product Properties Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.6786 TSCA water solubility: Generator column method.
####### Performance of the test.

(3)Using either the procedures in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) or (c)(3)(iii) of this section, determine the water solubility of the test compound at 25 &#xB0;C in reagent-grade water or buffer solution, as appropriate. Under certain circumstances, it may be necessary to determine the water solubility of a test compound at 25 &#xB0;C in artificial seawater. The water solubility can also be determined at other temperatures of environmental concern by adjusting the temperature of the water bath to the appropriate temperature.

(i) Prior to the determination of the water solubility of the test chemical, two procedures shall be followed.

(A) The saturated aqueous solution leaving the generator column must be tested for the presence of an emulsion, using a Tyndall procedure. If colloids are present, they must be eliminated prior to the injection into the extractor column. This may be achieved by lowering the flow rate of the water.

(B) The efficiency of the removal of the solute (i.e. test chemical) by the solvent extraction from the extraction column must be determined and used in the determination of the water solubility of the test chemical.
