
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Product Properties Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.6786 TSCA water solubility: Generator column method.
####### Preparation of reagents and solutions,Buffer solutions.

(2)-(i)Prepare buffer solutions as follows:

(A) pH 3.0-to 250 mL of 0.10M potassium hydrogen phosphate add 111 mL of 0.10 M hydrochloric acid; adjust the final volume to 500 mL with reagent grade water.

(B) pH 5.0-to 250 mL of 0.1M potassium hydrogen phthalate add 113 mL of 0.1M sodium hydroxide; adjust the final volume to 500 mL with reagent grade water.

(C) pH 7.0-to 250 mL of 0.1M potassium dihydrogen phosphate add 145 mL of 0.1M sodium hydroxide; adjust the final volume to 500 mL with reagent grade water.

(D) pH 9.0-to 250 mL of 0.075M borax add 69 mL of 0.1M HCl; adjust the final volume to 500 mL with reagent grade water.

(E) pH 11.0-to 250 mL of 0.05 M sodium bicarbonate add 3 mL of 0.10 M sodium hydroxide; adjust the final volume to 500 mL with reagent grade water.

(ii) Check the pH of each buffer solution with a pH meter at 25 &#xB0;C and adjust to pH 5.0, 7.0, or 9.0, if necessary. If the pH of the solution has changed by +/-0.2 pH units or more after the addition of the test compound, then a more concentrated buffer is required for that pH determination. The sponsor should then choose a more suitable buffer.
