
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9120 TSCA acute dermal toxicity.
####### Application of test substance.

(vi)(A) The test substance must be applied uniformly over a shaved or clipped area which is approximately 10% of the body surface area. The area starting at the scapulae (shoulders) to the wing of the ileum (hip bone) and half way down the flank on each side of the animal should be shaved or clipped. Liquid test materials should be undiluted if possible. With highly toxic substances, the surface area covered may be less, but as much of the area as possible should be covered with as thin and uniform a film as practical. The test material is not removed until 24 hours after application. In the case where less than 10% of the surface area is covered an approximation of the exposed areas should be determined.

(B) The test substance must be held in contact with the skin with a porous gauze dressing (<8 ply) and nonirritating tape throughout a 24-hour exposure period. The test site must be further covered in a suitable manner to retain the gauze dressing and test substance and ensure that the animals cannot ingest the test substance. Restrainers may be used to prevent the ingestion of the test substance, but complete immobilization is not a recommended method. Although a semiocclusive dressing is preferred, an occlusive dressing will also be acceptable.

(C) At the end of the exposure period, residual test substance should be removed where practicable using water or an appropriate solvent.
