
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### § 799.9130 TSCA acute inhalation toxicity.
####### Approaches to the determination of acute toxicity.

(d)(1) EPA recommends the following means to reduce the number of animals used to evaluate acute effects of chemical exposure while preserving its ability to make reasonable judgments about safety:

(i) Using data from substantially similar mixtures. In order to minimize the need for animal testing, the Agency encourages the review of existing acute toxicity information on mixtures that are substantially similar to mixtures under investigation. In certain cases, it may be possible to get enough information to make preliminary hazard evaluations that may reduce the need for further animal testing.

(ii) Limit test. When data on structurally related chemicals are inadequate, a limit test may be considered. In the limit test, a single group of five males and five females is exposed to 2 mg/L for 4 hours, or where this is not possible due to physical or chemical properties of the test substance, the maximum attainable concentration where a particle size distribution having an MMAD between 1 and 4 µm cannot be maintained, using the procedures described under paragraph (e) of this section. For fibers, the bivariate distribution of length and diameter must ensure inhalability. For gases and vapors, the concentrations need not be greater than 50,000 ppm or 50% of the lower explosive limit, whichever is lower. If a test at an aerosol or particulate exposure of 2 mg/L (actual concentration of respirable substance) for 4 hours or, where this is not feasible, the maximum attainable concentration, using the procedures described for this study, produces no observable toxic effects, then a full study using three concentrations will not be necessary. Similarly, if a test at a gas or vapor exposure of 50,000 ppm or 50% of the lower explosive limit, whichever is lower, produces no observable toxic effects, then a full study using three concentrations will not be necessary.

(2) [Reserved]
