
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9130 TSCA acute inhalation toxicity.
####### Exposure concentration levels.,2

(B)At least three concentration levels and a vehicle control group, if required (see paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(D)() of this section), must be used. The concentration levels should be spaced appropriately to produce a concentration-response curve and permit an estimation of the median lethal concentration (LC). The concentrations can either be linearly or logarithmically spaced depending on the anticipated steepness of the concentration-response curve. A rationale for concentration selection should be provided to indicate that the selected concentrations will maximally support detection of concentration-response relationship. The high concentration should be clearly toxic or a limit concentration, but should not result in an incidence of fatalities that would preclude a meaningful evaluation of the data. The lowest concentration should define a no-observed-effects level (NOEL). Range-finding studies using single animals may help to estimate the positioning of the test groups so that no more than three concentration levels will be necessary.

(C) When the physical and chemical properties of the test substance show a low flash point or the test substance is otherwise known or thought to be explosive, care must be taken to avoid exposure level concentrations that could result in an exposure chamber explosion during the test.
