
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9130 TSCA acute inhalation toxicity.
####### Test report.

(3)In addition to the reporting requirements specified under EPA Good Laboratory Practice Standards at 40 CFR part 792, subpart J, the following specific information must be reported. The test report shall include:

(i) Test conditions. (A) Description of exposure apparatus including design, type, dimensions.

(B) Source of air, system for generating the test article as particle, aerosol, gas, or vapor.

(C) Method for conditioning air, equipment for measuring temperature, humidity, particle size or particulate aerosol concentration size, and actual concentration.

(D) Treatment of exhaust air and the method of housing the animals in a test chamber when this is used.

(ii) Exposure data. The exposure data must be tabulated and presented with mean values and a measure of variability (e.g., standard deviation) and should include:

(A) Chemical purity of the test material.

(B) Airflow rates through the inhalation equipment.

(C) Temperature and humidity of the air.

(D) Nominal concentration (total amount of test substance fed into the inhalation equipment divided by volume of air).

(E) Actual (analytical or gravimetric) concentration in test breathing zone.

(F) Particle size distribution (calculated MMAD and GSD) and the bivariate distribution of fiber length and diameter, where appropriate.

(G) Explanation as to why the desired chamber concentration and/or particle size could not be achieved (if applicable), and the efforts taken to comply with these aspects of this section.

(iii) Species, strain, sex, and source of test animals.

(iv) Method of randomization in assigning animals to test and control groups.

(v) Rationale for selection of species, if other than that recommended.

(vi) Results. Tabulation of individual and test group data by sex and exposure concentration level (e.g., number of animals exposed, number of animals showing signs of toxicity and number of animals that died or were sacrificed during the test).

(A) Description of toxic effects including time of onset, duration, reversibility, and relationship to the exposure concentration levels.

(B) Pre-exposure and post-exposure body weight change in animals, and weight change during the observation period.

(C) Time of dosing and time of death during or following exposure.

(D) Concentration-response curves for mortality and other toxic effects (when permitted by the method of determination).

(E) Gross pathology necropsy findings in the test animals and vehicle control animals, if included. Data must be tabulated to show the counts and incidence of gross alterations observed for each group tested and the number of animals affected by each type of lesion along with the location and frequency of each type of lesion.

(F) Histopathology findings and any additional evaluations (e.g., clinical chemistry), if performed.

(vii) Description of any pretest conditioning, including diet, quarantine and treatment for disease.

(viii) Description of caging conditions, including: number (or change in number) of animals per cage, bedding material, ambient temperature and humidity, photoperiod, and identification of diet of test animals.

(ix) Manufacturer (source), lot number, and purity of test substance.

(x) Identification and composition of any vehicles (e.g., diluents, suspending agents, and emulsifiers) or other materials , if used in administering the test substance.

(xi) A list of references cited in the body of the report. References to any published literature used in developing the test protocol, performing the testing, making and interpreting observations, and compiling and evaluating the results.
