
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9135 TSCA acute inhalation toxicity with histopathology.
####### Principle of the test method.

(d)The test substance shall be administered to several groups of experimental animals; one concentration level and duration being used per group. Bronchoalveolar lavage shall be used to evaluate early effects on the respiratory system by examining changes in the content of the lavage fluid of the lung. At 24 hrs following exposure, the animals shall be sacrificed and necropsied, and tissue samples from the respiratory tract and other major organs will be prepared for microscopic examination. The exposure levels at which significant toxic effects on the respiratory organ system are produced are compared to those levels that produce other toxic effects. As triggered by the results of the 4-hr test, additional exposure periods of 1 hr and 8 hrs will be required to determine the effect of exposure time on the toxicity observed. A 1-hr exposure study can be elected as an option to provide data suitable for risk assessment for very short duration exposures as may occur from chemical releases. In the absence of adequate toxicological data for 1-hr exposure, the Agency will extrapolate to shorter-term exposures from the 4-hr data on the basis of concentration alone. This is a conservative method of extrapolation, consistent with general Agency methods for deriving criteria for short-term exposure from longer-term studies (a concentration x time extrapolation would result in higher concentration for a shorter duration).
