
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### § 799.9135 TSCA acute inhalation toxicity with histopathology.
####### Physical measurements.

(6)Measurements or monitoring shall be made of the following:

(i) Chemical purity of the test material shall be analyzed.

(ii) The rate of airflow shall be monitored continuously, but shall be recorded at least every 30 minutes.

(iii) The actual concentrations of the test substance shall be measured in the breathing zone. During the exposure period, the actual concentrations of the test substance shall be held as constant as practical, monitored continuously or intermittently depending on the method of analysis, and recorded at least at the beginning, at an intermediate time, and at the end of the exposure period. Well-established and published monitoring methods should be used where available. If no standard methods are available, then accuracy and precision information must be supplied.

(iv) During the development of the generating system, appropriate particle size analysis shall be performed to establish the stability of the aerosol. During exposure, analysis should be conducted as often as necessary to determine the consistency of particle size distribution. The particle size distribution shall have an MMAD between 1 and 4 µm. The particle size of hygroscopic materials shall be small enough when dry to assure that the size of the particle at saturation will still have an MMAD between 1 and 4 µm. Characterization for fibers shall include the bivariate distribution of length and diameter; this distribution must ensure inhalability.

(v) If the test substance is present in a mixture, the mass and composition of the entire mixture, as well as the principal compound, shall be measured.

(vi) Temperature and humidity shall be monitored continuously, but shall be recorded at least every 30 minutes.
