
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9305 TSCA Repeated dose 28-day oral toxicity study in rodents.
####### Test report.

(2)The test report must include the following information:

(i) Test substance:

(A) Physical nature, purity and physicochemical properties.

(B) Identification data.

(ii) Vehicle (if appropriate): Justification for choice of vehicle, if other than water.

(iii) Test animals:

(A) Species/strain used.

(B) Number, age and sex of animals.

(C) Source, housing conditions, diet, etc.

(D) Individual weights of animals at the start of the test.

(iv) Test conditions:

(A) Rationale for dose level selection.

(B) Details of test substance formulation/diet preparation, achieved concentration, stability and homogeneity of the preparation.

(C) Details of the administration of the test substance.

(D) Conversion from diet/drinking water test substance concentration (parts per million (ppm)) to the actual dose (mg/kg body weight/day), if applicable.

(E) Details of food and water quality.

(v) Results:

(A) Body weight/body weight changes.

(B) Food consumption, and water consumption, if applicable.

(C) Toxic response data by sex and dose level, including signs of toxicity.

(D) Nature, severity and duration of clinical observations (whether reversible or not).

(E) Sensory activity, grip strength and motor activity assessments.

(F) Hematological tests with relevant base-line values.

(G) Clinical biochemistry tests with relevant base-line values.

(H) Body weight at sacrificing and organ weight data.

(I) Necropsy findings.

(J) A detailed description of all histopathological findings.

(K) Absorption data if available.

(L) Statistical treatment of results, where appropriate.

(vi) Discussion of results.

(vii) Conclusions.
