
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9310 TSCA 90-day oral toxicity in rodents.
####### Administration of the test substance.

(6)(i) If the test substance is administered by gavage, the animals are dosed with the test substance on a 7-day per week basis for a period of at least 90 days. However, based primarily on practical considerations, dosing by gavage on a 5-day per week basis is acceptable. If the test substance is administered in the drinking water, or mixed in the diet, then exposure should be on a 7-day per week basis.

(ii) All animals must be dosed by the same method during the entire experimental period.

(iii) For substances of low toxicity, it is important to ensure that when administered in the diet the quantities of the test substance involved do not interfere with normal nutrition. When the test substance is administered in the diet, either a constant dietary concentration (parts per million) or a constant dose level in terms of body weight should be used; the alternative used should be specified.

(iv) For a substance administered by gavage, the dose should be given at approximately the same time each day, and adjusted at intervals (weekly or biweekly) to maintain a constant dose level in terms of body weight.
