
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9310 TSCA 90-day oral toxicity in rodents.
####### Gross necropsy.

(11)(i) All animals must be subjected to a full gross necropsy which includes examination of the external surface of the body, all orifices, and the cranial, thoracic and abdominal cavities and their contents.

(ii) The liver, kidneys, adrenals, testes, epididymides, ovaries, uterus, thymus, spleen, brain, and heart must be trimmed and weighed wet, as soon as possible after dissection.

(iii) The following organs and tissues, or representative samples thereof, should be preserved in a suitable medium for possible future histopathological examination:

(A) Digestive system-salivary glands, esophagus, stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, cecum, colon, rectum, liver, pancreas, gallbladder (when present).

(B) Nervous system-brain (including sections of medulla/pons, cerebellum and cerebrum), pituitary, peripheral nerve (sciatic or tibial, preferably in close proximity to the muscle), spinal cord (three levels: cervical, mid-thoracic and lumbar), eyes (retina, optic nerve).

(C) Glandular system-adrenals, parathyroid, thyroid.

(D) Respiratory system-trachea, lungs, pharynx, larynx, nose.

(E) Cardiovascular/hemopoietic system-aorta, heart, bone marrow (and/or fresh aspirate), lymph nodes (preferably one lymph node covering the route of administration and another one distant from the route of administration to cover systemic effects), spleen, thymus.

(F) Urogenital system-kidneys, urinary bladder, prostate, testes, epididymides, seminal vesicle(s), uterus, ovaries, female mammary gland.

(G) Others-all gross lesions and masses, skin.
