
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9325 TSCA 90-day dermal toxicity.
####### Administration of test substance.

(8)(i) The duration of exposure should be at least for 90 days.

(ii) Ideally, the animals should be treated with test substance for at least 6 hours per day on a 7-day per week basis. However, based on practical considerations, application on a 5-day per week basis is acceptable. Dosing should be conducted at approximately the same time each day.

(iii) The test substance must be applied uniformly over the treatment site.

(iv) The surface area covered may be less for highly toxic substances. As much of the area should be covered with as thin and uniform a film as possible.

(v) During the exposure period, the test substance must be held in contact with the skin with a porous gauze dressing (less than or equal to 8 ply). The test site must be further covered with nonirritating tape to retain the gauze dressing and the test substance and to ensure that the animals cannot ingest the test substance. Restrainers may be used to prevent the ingestion of the test substance, but complete immobilization is not recommended. The test substance may be wiped from the skin after the six-hour exposure period to prevent ingestion.
