
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### § 799.9346 TSCA 90-day inhalation toxicity.
####### Physical measurements.

(9)Measurements or monitoring shall be made of the following:

(i) The rate of airflow shall be monitored continuously but recorded at least three times during the exposure.

(ii) The actual concentrations of the test substance shall be measured in the animal's breathing zone. During the exposure period, the actual concentrations of the test substance shall be held as constant as practicable and monitored continuously or intermittently depending on the method of analysis. Chamber concentration may be measured using gravimetric or analytical methods as appropriate. If trial run measurements are reasonably consistent +/-10% for liquid, aerosol, gas, or vapor; +/-20% for dry aerosol), then two measurements should be sufficient. If measurements are not consistent, three to four measurements should be taken. Whenever the test substance is a formulation, or it is necessary to formulate the test substance with a vehicle for aerosol generation, the analytical concentration must be reported for the total formulation, and not just for the active ingredient (AI). If, for example, a formulation contains 10% AI and 90% inerts, a chamber analytical limit concentration of 2 mg/L would consist of 0.2 mg/L of the AI. It is not necessary to analyze inert ingredients provided the mixture at the animal's breathing zone is analogous to the formulation; the grounds for this conclusion must be provided in the study report. If there is some difficulty in measuring chamber analytical concentration due to precipitation, nonhomogeneous mixtures, volatile components, or other factors, additional analyses of inert components may be necessary.

(iii) During the development of the generating system, particle size analysis shall be performed to establish the stability of aerosol concentrations with respect to particle size. The MMAD particle size range should be between 1-3 µm. The particle size of hygroscopic materials should be small enough when dry to assure that the size of the swollen particle will still be within the 1-3 µm range. Measurements of aerodynamic particle size in the animal's breathing zone should be measured during a trial run. If MMAD valves for each exposure level are within 10% of each other, then two measurements during the exposures should be sufficient. If pretest measurements are not within 10% of each other, three to four measurements should be taken.

(iv) Temperature and humidity shall be monitored continuously and recorded at least three times during an exposure.
