
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9346 TSCA 90-day inhalation toxicity.
####### Observation of animals.

(11)(i) During and following exposure, observations are made and recorded systematically; individual records should be maintained for each animal. It is not always possible to observe animals during exposure in a whole-body chamber.

(ii) Observations shall be made at least once each day for morbidity and mortality. Appropriate actions should be taken to minimize loss of animals to the study (e.g., Necropsy or refrigeration of those animals found dead and isolation or sacrifice of weak or moribund animals).

(iii) A careful clinical examination shall be made at least once weekly. Observations should be detailed and carefully recorded, preferably using explicitly defined scales. Observations should include, but not be limited to, evaluation of skin and fur, eyes and mucous membranes, respiratory and circulatory effects, autonomic effects such as salivation, central nervous system effects, including tremors and convulsions, changes in the level of activity, gait and posture, reactivity to handling or sensory stimuli, altered strength, and stereotypes or bizarre behavior (e.g., self-mutilation, walking backwards).

(iv) Signs of toxicity should be recorded as they are observed including the time of onset, degree and duration.

(v) Individual weights of animals shall be determined shortly before the test substance is administered, and weekly thereafter.

(vi) Food consumption shall also be determined weekly if abnormal body weight changes are observed.

(vii) Moribund animals should be removed and sacrificed when noticed and the time of death should be recorded as precisely as possible.

(viii) At termination, all survivors in the treatment groups shall be sacrificed.
