
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9346 TSCA 90-day inhalation toxicity.
####### Exposure specifications.

(8)(i) The animals shall be tested in dynamic inhalation equipment designed to sustain a minimum airflow of 10 air changes per hr, an adequate oxygen content of at least 19%, and uniform conditions throughout the exposure chamber. Maintenance of slight negative pressure inside the chamber will prevent leakage of the test substance into the surrounding areas. It is not normally necessary to measure chamber oxygen concentration if airflow is adequate.

(ii) The selection of a dynamic inhalation chamber should be appropriate for the test substance and test system. Where a whole body chamber is used to expose animals to an aerosol, individual housing must be used to minimize crowding of the test animals and maximize their exposure to the test substance. To ensure stability of a chamber atmosphere, the total volume occupied by the test animals shall not exceed 5% of the volume of the test chamber. It is recommended, but not required, that nose-only or head-only exposure be used for aerosol studies in order to minimize oral exposures due to animals licking compound off their fur. Heat stress should be minimized.

(iii) The temperature at which the test is performed should be maintained at 22 +/-2 &#xB0;C. The relative humidity should be maintained between 40 and 60%, but in certain instances (e.g., use of water vehicle) this may not be practicable.
