
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9346 TSCA 90-day inhalation toxicity.
####### Histopathology.

(15)(i) The following histopathology shall be performed:

(A) Full histopathology on the respiratory tract and other organs and tissues, listed under paragraph (e)(15)(iii) of this section, of all animals in the control and high exposure groups and all animals that died or were killed during the study.

(B) All gross lesions in all animals.

(C) Target organs in all animals.

(D) Lungs of all animals. Special attention to examination of the respiratory tract should be made for evidence of infection as this provides a convenient assessment of the state of health of the animals.

(E) When a satellite group is used, histopathology shall be performed on tissues and organs identified as showing effects in the treated groups.

(ii) If excessive early deaths or other problems occur in the high exposure group compromising the significance of the data, the next concentration should be examined for complete histopathology.

(iii) An attempt should be made to correlate gross observations with microscopic findings.

(iv) Tissues and organs designated for microscopic examination should be fixed in 10% buffered formalin or a recognized suitable fixative as soon as necropsy is performed and no less than 48 hrs prior to trimming. Tissues should be trimmed to a maximum thickness of 0.4 cm for processing.
