
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### § 799.9355 TSCA reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Purpose.

(b)(1) This guideline is designed to generate limited information concerning the effects of a test substance on male and female reproductive performance such as gonadal function, mating behavior, conception, development of the conceptus, and parturition. It is not an alternative to, nor does it replace, the existing comprehensive test standards in §§ 799.9370 and 799.9380.

(2) This screening test guideline can be used to provide initial information on possible effects on reproduction and/or development, either at an early stage of assessing the toxicological properties of chemicals, or on chemicals of high concern. It can also be used as part of a set of initial screening tests for existing chemicals for which little or no toxicological information is available, as a dose range finding study for more extensive reproduction/developmental studies, or when otherwise considered relevant.

(3) This test does not provide complete information on all aspects of reproduction and development. In particular, it offers only limited means of detecting postnatal manifestations of prenatal exposure, or effects that may be induced during postnatal exposure. Due (amongst other reasons) to the relatively small numbers of animals in the dose groups, the selectivity of the end points, and the short duration of the study, this method will not provide evidence for definite claims of no effects.
