
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9355 TSCA reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Observations.

(7)(i) Throughout the test period, general clinical observations should be made at least once a day, and more frequently when signs of toxicity are observed. They should be made preferably at the same time(s) each day, considering the peak period of anticipated effects after dosing. Pertinent behavioural changes, signs of difficult or prolonged parturition and all signs of toxicity, including mortality, should be recorded. These records should include time of onset, degree and duration of toxicity signs.

(ii) The duration of gestation should be recorded and is calculated from day 0 of pregnancy. Each litter should be examined as soon as possible after delivery to establish the number and sex of pups, stillbirths, live births, runts (pups that are significantly smaller than corresponding control pups) and the presence of gross abnormalities.

(iii) Live pups should be counted and sexed and litters weighed within 24 hours of parturition (day 1) and on day 4 post-partum. In addition to the observations on parent animals, described by paragraph (f)(7) of this section, any abnormal behaviour of the offspring should be recorded.
