
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9365 TSCA combined repeated dose toxicity study with the reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Principle of the test.

(d)(1) The test substance must be administered in graduated doses to several groups of males and females. Males should be dosed for a minimum of 4 weeks, up to and including the day before scheduled sacrifice (this includes a minimum of 2 weeks prior to mating, during the mating period and, approximately, 2 weeks post mating). In view of the limited pre-mating dosing period in males, fertility may not be a particularly sensitive indicator of testicular toxicity. Therefore, a detailed histological examination of the testes is essential. The combination of a pre-mating dosing period of 2 weeks and subsequent mating/fertility observations with an overall dosing period of at least 4 weeks, followed by detailed histopathology of the male gonads, is considered sufficient to enable detection of the majority of effects on male fertility and spermatogenesis.

(2) Females should be dosed throughout the study. This includes 2 weeks prior to mating (with the objective of covering at least two complete oestrous cycles), the variable time to conception, the duration of pregnancy and at least 4 days after delivery, up to and including the day before scheduled sacrifice.

(3) Duration of study, following acclimatization, is dependent on the female performance and is approximately 54 days, (at least 14 days pre-mating, (up to) 14 days mating, 22 days gestation, 4 days lactation).

(4) During the period of administration, the animals are observed closely each day for signs of toxicity. Animals which die or are sacrificed during the test are necropsied and, at the conclusion of the test, surviving animals are sacrificed and necropsied.
