
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### § 799.9365 TSCA combined repeated dose toxicity study with the reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Purpose.

(b)(1) This screening test provides limited information on systemic toxicity, neurotoxicity, and/or immunotoxicity following repeated exposure over a limited time period. In addition, it can be used to provide initial information on possible effects on male and female reproductive performance such as gonadal function, mating behavior, conception, development of the conceptus, and parturition. It is not an alternative to, nor does it replace, the existing test guidelines in §§ 799.9370, 799.9380, 799.9620, and 799.9780 of this part.

(2) This test does not provide complete information on all aspects of reproduction and development. In particular, it offers only limited means of detecting postnatal manifestations of prenatal exposure, or effects that may be induced during postnatal exposure. Due (amongst other reasons) to the selectivity of the end points, and the short duration of the study, this method will not provide evidence for definite claims of no reproduction/developmental effects.

(3) This test can be used to provide initial information either at an early stage of assessing the toxicological properties of chemicals, or chemicals of high concern. It can also be used as part of a set of initial screening tests for existing chemicals for which little or no toxicological information is available or when otherwise considered relevant. It also can serve as an alternative to conducting two separate screening tests for repeated dose toxicity as described in § 799.9305 of this part and reproductive/developmental toxicity as described in § 799.9355 of this part.
