
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9365 TSCA combined repeated dose toxicity study with the reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Procedure,Number and sex of animals.

(f)-(1)It is recommended that each group be started with at least 10 animals of each sex. Except in the case of marked toxic effects, it is expected that this will provide at least eight pregnant females per group which normally is the minimum acceptable number of pregnant females per group. The objective is to produce enough pregnancies and offspring to assure a meaningful evaluation of the potential of the substance to affect fertility, pregnancy, maternal and suckling behaviour, and growth and development of the Foffspring from conception to day 4 post-partum. If interim sacrifices are planned, the number should be increased by the number of animals scheduled to be sacrificed before the completion of the study. Consideration should be given to an additional satellite group of five animals per sex in the control and the top dose group for observation of reversibility, persistence or delayed occurrence of systemic toxic effects, for at least 14 days post treatment. Animals of the satellite groups must not be mated and, consequently, must not used for the assessment of reproduction/developmental toxicity.
