
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9365 TSCA combined repeated dose toxicity study with the reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Experimental schedule.

(5)(i) Dosing of both sexes should begin 2 weeks prior to mating, after they have been acclimatized for at least 5 days. The study should be scheduled in such a way that mating begins soon after the animals have attained full sexual maturity. This may vary slightly for different strains of rats in different laboratories, e.g., Sprague Dawley rats 10 weeks of age, Wistar rats about 12 weeks of age. Dams with offspring should be sacrificed on day 4 post-partum, or shortly thereafter. In order to allow for overnight fasting of dams prior to blood collection (if this option is preferred), dams and their offspring need not necessarily be sacrificed on the same day. The day of birth (viz. when parturition is complete) is defined as day 0 post-partum. Females showing no-evidence of copulation are sacrificed 24-26 days after the last day of the mating period. Dosing is continued in both sexes during the mating period. Males should further be dosed after the mating period at least until the minimum total dosing period of 28 days has been completed. They are then sacrificed, or, alternatively, are retained and continued to be dosed for the possible conduction of a second mating if considered appropriate.

(ii) Daily dosing of the parental females should continue throughout pregnancy and at least up to, and including, day 3 post-partum or the day before sacrifice. For studies where the test substance is administered by inhalation or by the dermal route, dosing should be continued at least up to, and including, day 19 of gestation.

(iii) Animals in a satellite group scheduled for follow-up observations, if included, must not mated. They should be kept at least for a further 14 days after the first scheduled sacrifice of dams, without treatment to detect delayed occurrence, or persistence of, or recovery from toxic effects.

(iv) The experimental schedule is given in the following figure 1.
