
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9365 TSCA combined repeated dose toxicity study with the reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Observations.

(7)(i) General clinical observations should be made at least once a day, preferably at the same time(s) each day and considering the peak period of anticipated effects after dosing. The health condition of the animals should be recorded. At least twice daily all animals must be observed for morbidity and mortality.

(ii) Once before the first exposure (to allow for within-subject comparisons), and at least once a week thereafter, detailed clinical observations should be made in all animals. These observations should be made outside the home cage in a standard arena and preferably at the same time, each day. They should be carefully recorded; preferably using scoring systems, explicitly defined by the testing laboratory. Effort should be made to ensure that variations in the test conditions are minimal and that observations are preferably conducted by observers unaware of the treatment. Signs noted should include, but not be limited to, changes in skin, fur, eyes, mucous membranes, occurrence of secretions and excretions and autonomic activity (e.g., lacrimation, piloerection, pupil size, unusual respiratory pattern). Changes in gait, posture and response to handling as well as the presence of clonic or tonic movements, stereotypies (e.g., excessive grooming, repetitive circling), difficult or prolonged parturition or bizarre behaviour (e.g., self-mutilation, walking backwards) should also be recorded.

(iii) At one time during the study, sensory reactivity to stimuli of different modalities (e.g., auditory, visual and proprioceptive stimuli) assessment of grip strength and motor activity assessment should be conducted in five males and five females, randomly selected from each group. Further details of the procedures that could be followed are given in the respective references. However, alternative procedures than those referenced could also be used. In males, these functional observations should be made towards the end of their dosing period, shortly before scheduled sacrifice but before blood sampling for hematology or clinical chemistry. Females should be in a physiologically similar state during these functional tests and should preferably be tested during lactation, shortly before scheduled sacrifice. In order to avoid hypothermia of pups, dams should be removed from the pups for not more than 30 to 40 minutes. Examples of procedures for observation are described in the references in paragraphs (h)(3), (h)(4), (h)(5), (h)(6), and (h)(7) of this section.

(iv) Functional observations made once towards the end of the study may be omitted when the study is conducted as a preliminary study to a subsequent subchronic (90-day) or long-term study. In that case, the functional observations should be included in this follow-up study. On the other hand, the availability of data on functional observations from this repeated dose study may enhance the ability to select dose levels for a subsequent subchronic or long-term study.

(v) Functional observations may also be omitted for groups that otherwise reveal signs of toxicity to an extent that would significantly interfere with the functional test performance.

(vi) The duration of gestation should be recorded and is calculated from day 0 of pregnancy. Each litter should be examined as soon as possible after delivery to establish the number and sex of pups, stillbirths, live births, runts (pups that are significantly smaller than corresponding control pups), and the presence of gross abnormalities.

(vii) Live pups should be counted and sexed and litters weighed within 24 hours of parturition (day 0 or 1 post-partum) and on day 4 post-partum. In addition to the observations on parental animals, described by paragraphs (f)(7)(ii) and (f)(7)(iii) of this section, any abnormal behaviour of the offspring should be recorded.
