
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9365 TSCA combined repeated dose toxicity study with the reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Histopathology.

(ii)(A) Full histopathology should be conducted on the preserved organs and tissues of the selected animals in the control and high dose groups and all gross lesions. These examinations should be extended to animals of other dosage groups if treatment-related changes are observed in the high dose group.

(B) Detailed testicular histopathological examination (e.g., using Bouin's fixative, paraffin embedding and transverse sections of 4-5 +/-m thickness) should be conducted with special emphasis on stages of spermatogenesis and histopathology interstitial testicular cell structure. The evaluation should identify treatment-related effects such as retained spermatids, missing germ cell layers or types, multinucleated giant cells or sloughing of spermatogenic cells into the lumen (the specifications for the evaluation are discussed in paragraph (g)(2) of this section). Examination of the intact epididymis should include the caput, corpus, and cauda, which can be accomplished by evaluation of a longitudinal section. The epididymis should be evaluated for leukocyte infiltration, change in prevalence of cell types, aberrant cell types, and phagocytosis of sperm. Periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) and hematoxylin staining may be used for examination of the male reproductive organs. Histopathological examination of the ovary should detect qualitative depletion of the primordial follicle population.

(C) When a satellite group is used, histopathology should be performed on tissues and organs identified as showing effects in the treated groups.
