
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9365 TSCA combined repeated dose toxicity study with the reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Pathology,Gross necropsy.

(11)-(i)(A) All adult animals in the study must be subjected to a full, detailed gross necropsy which includes careful examination of the external surface of the body, all orifices, and the cranial, thoracic and abdominal cavities and their contents. Special attention should be paid to the organs of the reproductive system. The number of implantation sites should be recorded. Corpora lutea should be counted.

(B) The testes and epididymides of all adult males should be weighed and the ovaries, testes, epididymides, accessory sex organs, and all organs showing macroscopic lesions of all adult animals, should be preserved.

(C) In addition, for five adult males and females, randomly selected from each group, the liver, kidneys, adrenals, thymus, spleen, brain and heart should be trimmed of any adherent tissue, as appropriate and their wet weight taken as soon as possible after dissection to avoid drying. Of the selected males and females, the following tissues should also be preserved in the most appropriate fixation medium for both the type of tissue and the intended subsequent histopathological examination: all gross lesions, brain (representative regions including cerebrum, cerebellum and pons), spinal cord, stomach, small and large intestines (including Peyer's patches), liver, kidneys, adrenals, spleen, heart, thymus, thyroid, trachea and lungs (preserved by inflation with fixative and then immersion), uterus, urinary bladder, lymph nodes (preferably 1 lymph node covering the route of administration and another one distant from the route of administration to cover systemic effects), peripheral nerve (sciatic or tibial) preferably in close proximity to the muscle, and a section of bone marrow (or, alternatively, a fresh mounted marrow aspirate).

(D) Formalin fixation is not recommended for routine examination of testes and epididymides. An acceptable method is the use of Bouin's fixative for these tissues. The clinical and other findings may suggest the need to examine additional tissues. Also, any organs considered likely to be target organs based on the known properties of the test substance should be preserved.

(E) Dead pups and pups sacrificed at day 4 post-partum, or shortly thereafter, should, at least, be carefully examined externally for gross abnormalities.
