
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9365 TSCA combined repeated dose toxicity study with the reproduction/developmental toxicity screening test.
####### Test report.

(3)The test report must include the following information:

(i) Test substance:

(A) Physical nature and, where relevant, physicochemical properties.

(B) Identification data.

(ii) Vehicle (if appropriate): Justification for choice of vehicle, if other than water.

(iii) Test animals:

(A) Species/strain used.

(B) Number, age and sex of animals.

(C) Source, housing conditions, diet, etc.

(D) Individual weights of animals at the start of the test.

(iv) Test conditions:

(A) Rationale for dose level selection.

(B) Details of test substance formulation/diet preparation, achieved concentration, stability and homogeneity of the preparation.

(C) Details of the administration of the test substance.

(D) Conversion from diet/drinking water test substance concentration (parts per mission (ppm)) to the actual dose (mg/kg body weight/day), if applicable.

(E) Details of food and water quality.

(v) Results (toxic response data by sex and dose):

(A) Time of death during the study or whether animals survived to termination.

(B) Nature, severity and duration of clinical observations (whether reversible or not).

(C) Body weight/body weight change data.

(D) Food consumption and water consumption, if applicable.

(E) Sensory activity, grip strength and motor activity assessments.

(F) Hematological tests with relevant baseline values,

(G) Clinical biochemistry tests with relevant baseline values.

(H) Effects on reproduction, including information on mating/precoital interval, fertility, fecundity and gestation duration.

(I) Effects on offspring, including number of pups born (live and dead), sex ratio, postnatal growth (pup weights) and survival (litter size), gross abnormalities and clinical observations during lactation.

(J) Body weight at termination and organ weight data for the parental animals.

(K) Necropsy data, including number of implantations and number of corpora lutea.

(L) Calculations of pre- and postimplantation loss.

(M) Detailed description of histopathological findings.

(N) Statistical treatment of results, where appropriate.

(vi) Discussion of results.

(vii) Conclusions.
