
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9370 TSCA prenatal developmental toxicity.
####### Evaluation of study results.

(2)The following shall be provided:

(i) Maternal and fetal test results, including an evaluation of the relationship, or lack thereof, between the exposure of the animals to the test substance and the incidence and severity of all findings.

(ii) Criteria used for categorizing fetal external, soft tissue, and skeletal anomalies.

(iii) When appropriate, historical control data to enhance interpretation of study results. Historical data (on litter incidence and fetal incidence within litter), when used, should be compiled, presented, and analyzed in an appropriate and relevant manner. In order to justify its use as an analytical tool, information such as the dates of study conduct, the strain and source of the animals, and the vehicle and route of administration should be included.

(iv) Statistical analysis of the study findings should include sufficient information on the method of analysis, so that an independent reviewer/statistician can reevaluate and reconstruct the analysis. In the evaluation of study data, the litter should be considered the basic unit of analysis.

(v) In any study which demonstrates an absence of toxic effects, further investigation to establish absorption and bioavailability of the test substance should be considered.
