
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9370 TSCA prenatal developmental toxicity.
####### Observation of animals,Maternal.

(f)-(1)(i) Each animal shall be observed at least once daily, considering the peak period of anticipated effects after dosing. Mortality, moribundity, pertinent behavioral changes, and all signs of overt toxicity shall be recorded at this cageside observation. In addition, thorough physical examinations shall be conducted at the same time maternal body weights are recorded.

(ii) Animals shall be weighed on day 0, at termination, and at least at 3-day intervals during the dosing period.

(iii) Food consumption shall be recorded on at least 3-day intervals, preferably on days when body weights are recorded.

(iv) (A) Females shall be terminated immediately prior to the expected day of delivery.

(B) Females showing signs of abortion or premature delivery prior to scheduled termination shall be killed and subjected to a thorough macroscopic examination.

(v) At the time of termination or death during the study, the dam shall be examined macroscopically for any structural abnormalities or pathological changes which may have influenced the pregnancy. Evaluation of the dams during cesarean section and subsequent fetal analyses should be conducted without knowledge of treatment group in order to minimize bias.

(vi) (A) Immediately after termination or as soon as possible after death, the uteri shall be removed and the pregnancy status of the animals ascertained. Uteri that appear nongravid shall be further examined (e.g. by ammonium sulfide staining) to confirm the nonpregnant status.

(B) Each gravid uterus (with cervix) shall be weighed. Gravid uterine weights should not be obtained from dead animals if autolysis or decomposition has occurred.

(C) The number of corpora lutea shall be determined for pregnant animals.

(D) The uterine contents shall be examined for embryonic or fetal deaths and the number of viable fetuses. The degree of resorption shall be described in order to help estimate the relative time of death of the conceptus.
