
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9370 TSCA prenatal developmental toxicity.
####### Fetal.

(2)(i) The sex and body weight of each fetus shall be determined.

(ii) Each fetus shall be examined for external anomalies.

(iii) Fetuses shall be examined for skeletal and soft tissue anomalies (e.g. variations and malformations or other categories of anomalies as defined by the performing laboratory).

(A) For rodents, approximately one-half of each litter shall be prepared by standard techniques and examined for skeletal alterations, preferably bone and cartilage. The remainder shall be prepared and examined for soft tissue anomalies, using appropriate serial sectioning or gross dissection techniques. It is also acceptable to examine all fetuses by careful dissection for soft tissue anomalies followed by an examination for skeletal anomalies.

(B) For rabbits, all fetuses shall be examined for both soft tissue and skeletal alterations. The bodies of these fetuses should be evaluated by careful dissection for soft-tissue anomalies, followed by preparation and examination for skeletal anomalies. An adequate evaluation of the internal structures of the head, including the eyes, brain, nasal passages, and tongue, should be conducted for at least half of the fetuses.
