
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9370 TSCA prenatal developmental toxicity.
####### Test report.

(3)In addition to the reporting requirements as specified under 40 CFR part 792, subpart J, the following specific information shall be reported. Both individual and summary data should be presented.

(i) Species and strain.

(ii) Maternal toxic response data by dose, including but not limited to:

(A) The number of animals at the start of the test, the number of animals surviving, the number pregnant, and the number aborting.

(B) Day of death during the study or whether animals survived to termination.

(C) Day of observation of each abnormal clinical sign and its subsequent course.

(D) Body weight and body weight change data, including body weight change adjusted for gravid uterine weight.

(E) Food consumption and, if applicable, water consumption data.

(F) Necropsy findings, including gravid uterine weight.

(iii) Developmental endpoints by dose for litters with implants, including:

(A) Corpora lutea counts.

(B) Implantation data, number and percent of live and dead fetuses, and resorptions (early and late).

(C) Pre- and postimplantation loss calculations.

(iv) Developmental endpoints by dose for litters with live fetuses, including:

(A) Number and percent of live offspring.

(B) Sex ratio.

(C) Fetal body weight data, preferably by sex and with sexes combined.

(D) External, soft tissue, and skeletal malformation and variation data. The total number and percent of fetuses and litters with any external, soft tissue, or skeletal alteration, as well as the types and incidences of individual anomalies, should be reported.

(v) The numbers used in calculating all percentages or indices.

(vi) Adequate statistical treatment of results.

(vii) A copy of the study protocol and any amendments should be included.
