
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9380 TSCA reproduction and fertility effects.
####### Observation of animals,Parental.

(4)-(i)(A) Throughout the test period, each animal shall be observed at least once daily, considering the peak period of anticipated effects after dosing. Mortality, moribundity, pertinent behavioral changes, signs of difficult or prolonged parturition, and all signs of overt toxicity shall be recorded at this cageside examination. In addition, thorough physical examinations should be conducted weekly on each animal.

(B) Parental animals (P and F1) shall be weighed on the first day of dosing and weekly thereafter. Parental females (P and F1) should be weighed at a minimum on approximately gestation days 0, 7, 14, and 21, and during lactation on the same days as the weighing of litters.

(C) During the premating and gestation periods, food consumption shall be measured weekly at a minimum. Water consumption should be measured weekly at a minimum if the test substance is administered in the water.

(D) Estrous cycle length and pattern should be evaluated by vaginal smears for all P and F1 females during a minimum of 3 weeks prior to mating and throughout cohabitation; care should be taken to prevent the induction of pseudopregnancy.

(E) For all P and F1 males at termination, sperm from one testis and one epididymis shall be collected for enumeration of homogenization-resistant spermatids and cauda epididymal sperm reserves, respectively. In addition, sperm from the cauda epididymis (or vas deferens) should be collected for evaluation of sperm motility and sperm morphology.
