
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9380 TSCA reproduction and fertility effects.
####### Histopathology,Parental animals.

(9)-(i)Full histopathology of the organs listed in paragraph (e)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed for ten randomly chosen high dose and control P and F1 animals per sex, for those animals that were selected for mating. Organs demonstrating treatment-related changes shall also be examined for the remainder of the high-dose and control animals and for all parental animals in the low- and mid-dose groups. Additionally, reproductive organs of the low- and mid-dose animals suspected of reduced fertility, e.g., those that failed to mate, conceive, sire, or deliver healthy offspring, or for which estrous cyclicity or sperm number, motility, or morphology were affected, shall be subjected to histopathological evaluation. Besides gross lesions such as atrophy or tumors, testicular histopathological examination should be conducted in order to identify treatment-related effects such as retained spermatids, missing germ cell layers or types, multinucleated giant cells, or sloughing of spermatogenic cells into the lumen. Examination of the intact epididymis should include the caput, corpus, and cauda, which can be accomplished by evaluation of a longitudinal section, and should be conducted in order to identify such lesions as sperm granulomas, leukocytic infiltration (inflammation), aberrant cell types within the lumen, or the absence of clear cells in the cauda epididymal epithelium. The postlactational ovary should contain primordial and growing follicles as well as the large corpora lutea of lactation. Histopathological examination should detect qualitative depletion of the primordial follicle population. A quantitative evaluation of primordial follicles should be conducted for all F1 females; the number of animals, ovarian section selection, and section sample size should be statistically appropriate for the evaluation procedure used. Examination should include enumeration of the number of primordial follicles, which can be combined with small growing follicles (see paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section), for comparison of treated and control ovaries.
