
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9380 TSCA reproduction and fertility effects.
####### Test report.

(3)In addition to the reporting requirements as specified under 40 CFR part 792, subpart J, the following specific information shall be reported. Both individual and summary data should be presented.

(i) Species and strain.

(ii) Toxic response data by sex and dose, including indices of mating, fertility, gestation, birth, viability, and lactation; offspring sex ratio; precoital interval, including the number of days until mating and the number of estrous periods until mating; and duration of gestation calculated from day 0 of pregnancy. The report should provide the numbers used in calculating all indices.

(iii) Day (week) of death during the study or whether animals survived to termination; date (age) of litter termination.

(iv) Toxic or other effects on reproduction, offspring, or postnatal growth.

(v) Developmental milestone data (mean age of vaginal opening and preputial separation, and mean anogenital distance, when measured).

(vi) Number of P and F1 females cycling pattern and mean estrous cycle length.

(vii) Day (week) of observation of each abnormal sign and its subsequent course.

(viii) Body weight and body weight change data by sex for P, F1, and F2 animals.

(ix) Food (and water, if applicable) consumption, food efficiency (body weight gain per gram of food consumed), and test material consumption for P and F1 animals, except for the period of cohabitation.

(x) Total cauda epididymal sperm number, homogenization-resistant testis spermatid number, number and percent of progressively motile sperm, number and percent of morphologically normal sperm, and number and percent of sperm with each identified anomaly.

(xi) Stage of the estrous cycle at the time of termination for P and F1 parental females.

(xii) Necropsy findings.

(xiii) Implantation data and postimplantation loss calculations for P and F1 parental females.

(xiv) Absolute and adjusted organ weight data.

(xv) Detailed description of all histopathological findings.

(xvi) Adequate statistical treatment of results.

(xvii) A copy of the study protocol and any amendments should be included.
