
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9410 TSCA chronic toxicity.
####### Husbandry.

(v)(A) Rodents may be group-caged by sex, but the number of animals per cage must not interfere with clear observation of each animal. The biological properties of the test substance or toxic effects (e.g., morbidity, excitability) may indicate a need for individual caging. Rodents should be housed individually in dermal studies and during exposure in inhalation studies. Caging should be appropriate to the nonrodent species.

(B) The temperature of the experimental animal rooms should be at 22 +/-3 &#xB0;C.

(C) The relative humidity of the experimental animal rooms should be 50 +/-20%.

(D) Where lighting is artificial, the sequence should be 12 hours light/12 hours dark.

(E) Control and test animals should be fed from the same batch and lot. The feed should be analyzed to assure adequacy of nutritional requirements of the species tested and for impurities that might influence the outcome of the test. Animals should be fed and watered ad libitum with food replaced at least weekly.

(F) The study should not be initiated until animals have been allowed a period of acclimatization/quarantine to environmental conditions, nor should animals from outside sources be placed on test without an adequate period of quarantine. An acclimation period of at least 5 days is recommended.
