
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9410 TSCA chronic toxicity.
####### Dose levels and dose selections.

(5)(i) In chronic toxicity tests, it is desirable to determine a dose-response relationship as well as a NOEL. Therefore, at least three dose levels with a control group and, where appropriate, a vehicle control (corresponding to the concentration of the vehicle at the highest exposure level) should be used. Dose levels should be spaced to produce a gradation of effects. A rationale must be provided for the doses selected.

(ii) The highest-dose level should elicit signs of toxicity without substantially altering the normal life span of the animal. The highest dose should be determined based on the findings from a 90-day study to ensure that the dose used is adequate to assess the chronic toxicity of the test substance. Thus, the selection of the highest dose to be tested is dependent upon changes observed in several toxicological parameters in subchronic studies. The highest dose tested need not exceed 1,000 mg/kg/day. If dermal application of the test substance produces severe skin irritation, then it may be necessary either to terminate the study and choose a lower high-dose level or to reduce the dose level. Gross criteria for defining severe irritation would include ulcers, fissures, exudate/crust(eschar), dead tissue, or anything leading to destruction of the functional integrity of the epidermis (e.g. caking, open sores, fissuring, eschar). Histological criteria for defining severe irritation would include follicular and interfollicular crust, microulcer, mild/moderate degeneration/necrosis, moderate/marked epidermal edema, marked dermal edema, and marked inflammation.

(iii) The intermediate dose levels should be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects.

(iv) The lowest-dose level should produce no evidence of toxicity.
