
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9410 TSCA chronic toxicity.
####### Observation of animals.

(8)(i) Observations should be made at least twice each day for morbidity and mortality. Appropriate actions should be taken to minimize loss of animals to the study (e.g., necropsy or refrigeration of those animals found dead and isolation or sacrifice of weak or moribund animals). General clinical observations should be made at least once a day, preferably at the same time each day, taking into consideration the peak period of anticipated effects after dosing. The clinical condition of the animal should be recorded.

(ii) A careful clinical examination should be made at least once prior to the initiation of treatment (to allow for within subject comparisons) and once weekly during treatment in all animals. These observations should be made outside the home cage, preferably in a standard arena, and at similar times on each occasion. Effort should be made to ensure that variations in the observation conditions are minimal. Observations should be detailed and carefully recorded, preferably using scoring systems, explicitly defined by the testing laboratory. Signs noted should include, but not be limited to, changes in skin, fur, eyes, mucous membranes, occurrence of secretions and excretions and autonomic activity (e.g., lacrimation, piloerection, pupil size, unusual respiratory pattern). Changes in gait, posture and response to handling as well as the presence of clonic or tonic movements, stereotypies (e.g., excessive grooming, repetitive circling) or bizarre behavior (e.g., self-mutilation, walking backwards) should be recorded.

(iii) Once, near the end of the first year of the exposure period and in any case not earlier than in month 11, assessment of motor activity, grip strength, and sensory reactivity to stimuli of different types (e.g., visual, auditory, and proprioceptive stimuli) should be conducted in rodents. Further details of the procedures that could be followed are described in the references listed under paragraphs (h)(2), (h)(7), (h)(8), and (h)(11) of this section.

(iv) Functional observations conducted towards the end of the study may be omitted when data on functional observations are available from other studies and the daily clinical observations did not reveal any functional deficits.

(v) Exceptionally, functional observations may be omitted for groups that otherwise reveal signs of toxicity to an extent that would significantly interfere with functional test performance.

(vi) Body weights should be recorded individually for all animals once prior to the administration of the test substance, once a week during the first 13 weeks of study and at least once every 4 weeks thereafter, unless signs of clinical toxicity suggest more frequent weighing to facilitate monitoring of health status.

(vii) Measurements of feed consumption should be determined weekly during the first 13 weeks of the study and at approximately monthly intervals thereafter unless health status or body weight changes dictate otherwise. Measurements of water consumption should be determined at the same intervals if the test substance is administered in the drinking water.

(viii) Moribund animals should be removed and sacrificed when noticed and the time of death should be recorded as precisely as possible. All survivors should be sacrificed at the end of the study period.
