
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9420 TSCA carcinogenicity.
####### Dose levels and dose selection.

(4)(i) For risk assessment purposes, at least three dose levels shall be used, in addition to the concurrent control group. Dose levels should be spaced to produce a gradation of effects. A rationale for the doses selected must be provided.

(ii) The highest dose level should elicit signs of toxicity without substantially altering the normal life span due to effects other than tumors. The highest dose should be determined based on the findings from a 90-day study to ensure that the dose used is adequate to asses the carcinogenic potential of the test substance. Thus, the selection of the highest dose to be tested is dependent upon changes observed in several toxicological parameters in subchronic studies. The highest dose tested need not exceed 1,000 mg/kg/day.

(iii) The intermediate-dose level should be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects.

(iv) The lowest dose level should produce no evidence of toxicity.

(v) For skin carcinogenicity studies, when toxicity to the skin is a determining factor, the highest dose selected should not destroy the functional integrity of the skin, the intermediate dose should be a minimally irritating dose, and the low dose should be the highest nonirritating dose.

(vi) The criteria for selecting the dose levels for skin carcinogenicity studies, based on gross and histopathologic dermal lesions, are as follows:

(A) Gross criteria for reaching the high dose:
