
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### § 799.9420 TSCA carcinogenicity.
####### Inhalation studies.

(iii)(A) The animals should be exposed to the test substance for 6 h/day on a 7-day per week basis, for a period of at least 18 months in mice and 24 months in rats. However, based primarily on practical considerations, exposure for 6 h/day on a 5-day per week basis is acceptable.

(B) The animals shall be tested in dynamic inhalation equipment designed to sustain a minimum air flow of 10 air changes per hr, an adequate oxygen content of at least 19%, and uniform conditions throughout the exposure chamber. Maintenance of slight negative pressure inside the chamber will prevent leakage of the test substance into surrounding areas.

(C) The selection of a dynamic inhalation chamber should be appropriate for the test substance and test system. Where a whole body chamber is used to expose animals to an aerosol, individual housing must be used to minimize crowding of the test animals and maximize their exposure to the test substance. To ensure stability of a chamber atmosphere, the total volume occupied by the test animals shall not exceed 5% of the volume of the test chamber. It is recommended, but not required, that nose-only or head-only exposure be used for aerosol studies in order to minimize oral exposures due to animals licking compound off their fur. Heat stress to the animals should be minimized.

(D) The temperature at which the test is performed should be maintained at 22 +/-2 &#xB0;C. The relative humidity should be maintained between 40 to 60%, but in certain instances (e.g., tests of aerosols, use of water vehicle) this may not be practicable.

(E) The rate of air flow shall be monitored continuously but recorded at least three times during exposure.

(F) Temperature and humidity shall be monitored continuously but should be recorded at least every 30 minutes.

(G) The actual concentration of the test substance shall be measured in the breathing zone. During the exposure period, the actual concentrations of the test substance should be held as constant as practicable, monitored continuously or intermittently depending on the method of analysis. Chamber concentrations may be measured using gravimetric or analytical methods as appropriate. If trial run measurements are reasonably consistent (plus or minus 10 percent for liquid aerosol, gas, or vapor; plus or minus 20 percent for dry aerosol), the two measurements should be sufficient. If measurements are not consistent, then three to four measurements should be taken.

(H) During the development of the generating system, particle size analysis shall be performed to establish the stability of aerosol concentrations with respect to particle size. Measurement of aerodynamic particle size in the animals's breathing zone should be measured during a trial run. If median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) values for each exposure level are within 10% of each other, then two measurements during the exposures should be sufficient. If pretest measurements are not within 10% of each other, three to four measurements should be taken. The MMAD particle size range should be between 1-3 µm. The particle size of hygroscopic materials should be small enough to allow pulmonary deposition once the particles swell in the moist environment of the respiratory tract.

(I) Feed shall be withheld during exposure. Water may also be withheld during exposure.
