
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9420 TSCA carcinogenicity.
####### Observation of animals.

(7)(i) Observations shall be made at least once each day for morbidity and mortality. Appropriate actions should be taken to minimize loss of animals from the study (e.g., necropsy or refrigeration of those animals found dead and isolation or sacrifice of weak or moribund animals).

(ii) A careful clinical examination shall be made at least once weekly. Observations should be detailed and carefully recorded, preferably using explicitly defined scales. Observations should include, but not be limited to, evaluation of skin and fur, eyes and mucous membranes, respiratory and circulatory effects, autonomic effects such as salivation, central nervous system effects, including tremors and convulsions, changes in the level of activity, gait and posture, reactivity to handling or sensory stimuli, altered strength and stereotypes or bizarre behavior (e.g., self-mutilation, walking backwards).

(iii) Body weights shall be recorded individually for all animals; once a week during the first 13 weeks of the study and at least once every 4 weeks, thereafter, unless signs of clinical toxicity suggest more frequent weighing to facilitate monitoring of health status.

(iv) Measurements of feed consumption should be determined weekly during the first 13 weeks of the study and at approximately monthly intervals thereafter unless health status or body weight changes dictate otherwise. Measurement of water consumption should be determined at the same intervals if the test substance is administered in the drinking water.

(v) Moribund animals shall be removed and sacrificed when noticed and the time of death should be recorded as precisely as possible. At the end of the study period, all survivors shall be sacrificed.
