
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9420 TSCA carcinogenicity.
####### Dermal studies.

(ii)(A) The animals should be treated with the test substance for at least 6 h/day on a 7-day per week basis for a period of at least 18 months for mice and hamsters and 24 months for rats. However, based primarily on practical considerations, application on a 5-day per week basis is acceptable. Dosing should be conducted at approximately the same time each day.

(B) Fur should be clipped weekly from the dorsal area of the trunk of the test animals. Care should be taken to avoid abrading the skin which could alter its permeability. A minimum of 24 hrs should be allowed for the skin to recover before the next dosing of the animal.

(C) Preparation of test substance. Liquid test substances are generally used undiluted, except as indicated in paragraph (e)(4)(vi) of this section. Solids should be pulverized when possible. The substance should be moistened sufficiently with water or, when necessary, with a suitable vehicle to ensure good contact with the skin. When a vehicle is used, the influence of the vehicle on toxicity of, and penetration of the skin by, the test substance should be taken into account. The volume of application should be kept constant, e.g. less than 100 uL for the mouse and less than 300 uL for the rat. Different concentrations of test solution should be prepared for different dose levels.

(D) The test substance shall be applied uniformly over a shaved area which is approximately 10 percent of the total body surface area. In order to dose approximately 10 percent of the body surface, the area starting at the scapulae (shoulders) to the wing of the ileum (hipbone) and half way down the flank on each side of the animal should be shaved. With highly toxic substances, the surface area covered may be less, but as much of the area as possible should be covered with as thin and uniform a film as practical.
