
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9430 TSCA combined chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity.
####### Dose levels and dose selection.

(4)(i) For risk assessment purposes, at least three dose levels must be used, in addition to the concurrent control group. Dose levels should be spaced to produce a gradation of effects. A rationale for the doses selected must be provided.

(ii) The highest dose level in rodents should elicit signs of toxicity without substantially altering the normal life span due to effects other than tumors. The highest dose should be determined based on the findings from a 90-day study to ensure that the dose used is adequate to assess the chronic toxicity and the carcinogenic potential of the test substance. Thus, the selection of the highest dose to be tested is dependent upon changes observed in several toxicological parameters in subchronic studies. The highest dose tested need not exceed 1,000 mg/kg/day.

(iii) The intermediate-dose levels should be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects.

(iv) The lowest-dose level should produce no evidence of toxicity.

(v) For skin carcinogenicity studies, when toxicity to the skin is a determining factor, the highest dose selected should not destroy the functional integrity of the skin, the intermediate doses should be a minimally irritating dose and the low dose should be the highest nonirritating dose.

(vi) The criteria for selecting the dose levels for skin carcinogenicity studies, based on gross and histopathologic dermal lesions, are as follows:

(A) Gross criteria for reaching the high dose:
