
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### § 799.9430 TSCA combined chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity.
####### Dermal studies.

(ii)(A) Preparation of animal skin. Shortly before testing, fur should be clipped from not less than 10% of the body surface area for application of the test substance. In order to dose approximately 10% of the body surface, the area starting at the scapulae (shoulders) to the wing of the ileum (hipbone) and half way down the flank on each side of the animal should be shaved. Shaving should be carried out approximately 24 hours before dosing. Repeated clipping or shaving is usually needed at approximately weekly intervals. When clipping or shaving the fur, care should be taken to avoid abrading the skin which could alter its permeability.

(B) Preparation of test substance. Liquid test substances are generally used undiluted, except as indicated in paragraph (e)(4)(vi) of this section. Solids should be pulverized when possible. The substance should be moistened sufficiently with water or, when necessary, with a suitable vehicle to ensure good contact with the skin. When a vehicle is used, the influence of the vehicle on toxicity of, and penetration of the skin by, the test substance should be taken into account. The volume of application should be kept constant, e.g., less than 100 µL for the mouse and less than 300 µL for the rat. Different concentrations of test solution should be prepared for different dose levels.

(C) Administration of test substance. The duration of exposure should be at least 18 months for mice and hamsters and 24 months for rats. Ideally, the animals should be treated with test substance for at least 6 hours per day on a 7-day per week basis. However, based on practical considerations, application on a 5-day per week basis is acceptable. Dosing should be conducted at approximately the same time each day. The test substance must be applied uniformly over the treatment site. The surface area covered may be less for highly toxic substances. As much of the area should be covered with as thin and uniform a film as possible. For rats, the test substance may be held in contact with the skin with a porous gauze dressing and nonirritating tape if necessary. The test site should be further covered in a suitable manner to retain the gauze dressing plus test substance and to ensure that the animals cannot ingest the test substance. The application site should not be covered when the mouse is the species of choice. The test substance may be wiped from the skin after the 6-hour exposure period to prevent ingestion.
