
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### § 799.9430 TSCA combined chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity.
####### Inhalation studies.

(iii)(A) The animals should be exposed to the test substance, for 6 hours per day on a 7-day per week basis, for a period of at least 18 months in mice and 24 months in rats. However, based primarily on practical considerations, exposure for 6 hours per day on a 5-day per week basis is acceptable.

(B) The animals must be tested in dynamic inhalation equipment designed to sustain a minimum air flow of 10 air changes per hour, an adequate oxygen content of at least 19%, and uniform conditions throughout the exposure chamber. Maintenance of slight negative pressure inside the chamber will prevent leakage of the test substance into surrounding areas. It is not normally necessary to measure chamber oxygen concentration if airflow is adequate.

(C) The selection of a dynamic inhalation chamber should be appropriate for the test substance and test system. Where a whole body chamber is used, individual housing must be used to minimize crowding of the test animals and maximize their exposure to the test substance. To ensure stability of a chamber atmosphere, the total volume occupied by the test animals shall not exceed 5% of the volume of the test chamber. It is recommended, but not required, that nose-only or head-only exposure be used for aerosol studies in order to minimize oral exposures due to animals licking compound off their fur. The animals should be acclimated and heat stress minimized.

(D) The temperature at which the test is performed should be maintained at 22 +/-2 &#xB0;C. The relative humidity should be maintained between 40 to 60%, but in certain instances (e.g., tests of aerosols, use of water vehicle) this may not be practicable.

(E) The rate of air flow must be monitored continuously but recorded at least three times during the exposure.

(F) Temperature and humidity must be monitored continuously but should be recorded at least every 30 minutes.

(G) The actual concentrations of the test substance must be measured in the animal's breathing zone. During the exposure period, the actual concentrations of the test substance must be held as constant as practicable and monitored continuously or intermittently depending on the method of analysis. Chamber concentration may be measured using gravimetric or analytical methods as appropriate. If trial run measurements are reasonably consistent (+/-10% for liquid aerosol, gas, or vapor; +/-20% for dry aerosol), then two measurements should be sufficient. If measurements are not consistent, three to four measurements should be taken. If there is some difficulty in measuring chamber analytical concentration due to precipitation, nonhomogeneous mixtures, volatile components, or other factors, additional analyses of inert components may be necessary.

(H) During the development of the generating system, particle size analysis must be performed to establish the stability of aerosol concentrations with respect to particle size. The mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) particle size range should be between 1-3 µm. The particle size of hygroscopic materials should be small enough when dry to assure that the size of the swollen particle will still be within the 1-3 µm range. Measurements of aerodynamic particle size in the animal's breathing zone should be measured during a trial run. If MMAD values for each exposure level are within 10% of each other, then two measurements during the exposures should be sufficient. If pretest measurements are not within 10% of each other, three to four measurements should be taken.

(I) Feed must be withheld during exposure. Water may also be withheld during exposure.

(J) When the physical and chemical properties of the test substance show a low flash point or the test substance is otherwise known or thought to be explosive, care must be taken to avoid exposure level concentrations that could result in an exposure chamber explosion during the test.
