
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9430 TSCA combined chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity.
####### Observation of animals.

(7)(i) Observations must be made at least twice each day for morbidity and mortality. Appropriate actions should be taken to minimize loss of animals to the study (e.g., necropsy or refrigeration of those animals found dead and isolation or sacrifice of weak or moribund animals). General clinical observations shall be made at least once a day, preferably at the same time each day, taking into consideration the peak period of anticipated effects after dosing. The clinical condition of the animal should be recorded.

(ii) A careful clinical examination must be made at least once weekly. Observations should be detailed and carefully recorded, preferably using explicity defined scales. Observations should include, but not be limited to, evaluation of skin and fur, eyes and mucous membranes, respiratory and circulatory effects, autonomic effects such as salivation, central nervous system effects, including tremors and convulsions, changes in the level of activity, gait and posture, reactivity to handling or sensory stimuli, altered strength, and stereotypes or bizarre behavior (e.g., self-mutilation, walking backwards).

(iii) Signs of toxicity should be recorded as they are observed including the time of onset, degree and duration.

(iv) Body weights must be recorded individually for all animals once prior to administration of the test substance, once a week during the first 13 weeks of the study and at least once every 4 weeks thereafter unless signs of clinical toxicity suggest more frequent weighing to facilitate monitoring of health status.

(v) Measurements of feed consumption should be determined weekly during the first 13 weeks of the study and then at approximately monthly intervals unless health status or body weight changes dictate otherwise. Measurements of water consumption should be determined at the same intervals if the test material is administered in drinking water.

(vi) Moribund animals must be removed and sacrificed when noticed and the time of death should be recorded as precisely as possible. At the end of the study period, all survivors must be sacrificed. Animals in the satellite group must be sacrificed after 12 months of exposure to the test substance (interim sacrifice).
