
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9430 TSCA combined chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity.
####### Gross necropsy.

(10)(i) A complete gross examination must be performed on all animals, including those which died during the experiment or were sacrificed in a moribund condition.

(ii) At least, the liver, kidneys, adrenals, testes, epididymides, ovaries, uterus, spleen, brain, and heart should be trimmed and weighed wet, as soon as possible after dissection to avoid drying. The lungs should be weighed if the test substance is administered by the inhalation route. The organs should be weighed from interim sacrifice animals as well as from at least 10 animals per sex per group at terminal sacrifice.

(iii) The following organs and tissues, or representative samples thereof, must be preserved in a suitable medium for possible future histopathological examination:

(A) Digestive system-salivary glands, esophagus, stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, cecum, colon, rectum, liver, pancreas, gallbladder (when present) .

(B) Nervous system-brain (multiple sections, including cerebrum, cerebellum and medulla/pons), pituitary, peripheral nerve (sciatic or tibial, preferably in close proximity to the muscle), spinal cord (three levels, cervical, mid-thoracic, and lumbar), eyes (retina, optic nerve).

(C) Glandular system-adrenals, parathyroid, thyroid.

(D) Respiratory system-trachea, lungs, pharynx, larynx, nose.

(E) Cardiovascular/Hematopoietic system-aorta, heart, bone marrow (and/or fresh aspirate), lymph nodes (preferably one lymph node covering the route of administration and another one distant from the route of administration to cover systemic effects), spleen.

(F) Urogenital system-kidneys, urinary bladder, prostate, testes, epididymides, seminal vesicle(s), uterus, ovaries, female mammary gland.

(G) Other-all gross lesions and masses, skin.

(iv) In inhalation studies, the entire respiratory tract, including nose, pharynx, larynx, and paranasal sinuses should be examined and preserved. In dermal studies, skin from treated and adjacent control skin sites should be examined and preserved.

(v) Inflation of lungs and urinary bladder with a fixative is the optimal method for preservation of these tissues. The proper inflation and fixation of the lungs in inhalation studies is essential for appropriate and valid histopathological examination.

(vi) Information from clinical pathology and other in-life data should be considered before microscopic examination, since these data may provide significant guidance to the pathologist.

(11) [Reserved]
