
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9430 TSCA combined chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity.
####### Evaluation of study results.

(2)(i) The findings of a combined chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity study should be evaluated in conjunction with the findings of previous studies and considered in terms of the toxic effects, the necropsy and histopathological findings. The evaluation must include the relationship between the dose of the test substance and the presence, incidence and severity of abnormalities (including behavioral and clinical abnormalities), gross lesions, identified target organs, body weight changes, effects on mortality and any other general or specific toxic effects.

(ii) In any study which demonstrates an absence of toxic effects, further investigation to establish absorption and bioavailablity of the test substance should be considered.

(iii) In order for a negative test to be acceptable, it should meet the following criteria-no more than 10% of any group is lost due to autolysis, cannibalism, or management problems, and survival in each group is no less than 50% at 15 months for mice and 18 months for rats. Survival should not fall below 25% at 18 months for mice and 24 months for rats.

(iv) The use of historical control data from an appropriate time period from the same testing laboratory (i.e, the incidence of tumors and other suspect lesions normally occurring under the same laboratory conditions and in the same strain of animals employed in the test) is helpful for assessing the significance of changes observed in the current study.
