
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9430 TSCA combined chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity.
####### Test results.

(4)(i) Group animal data. Tabulation of toxic response data by species, strain, sex, and exposure level for:

(A) Number of animals exposed.

(B) Number of animals showing signs of toxicity.

(C) Number of animals dying.

(ii) Individual animal data. Data should be presented as summary (group mean) as well as for individual animals.

(A) Time of death during the study or whether animals survived to termination.

(B) Time of observation of each abnormal sign and its subsequent course.

(C) Body weight data.

(D) Feed and water consumption data, when collected.

(E) Achieved dose (milligrams/kilogram body weight) as a time-weighed average is the test substance is administered in the diet or drinking water.

(F) Results of ophthalmological examination, when performed.

(G) Results of hematological tests performed.

(H) Results of clinical chemistry tests performed.

(I) Results of urinalysis tests performed.

(J) Results of observations made.

(K) Necropsy findings including absolute/relative organ weight data.

(L) Detailed description of all histopathological findings.

(M) Statistical treatment of results where appropriate.

(N) Historical control data.

(iii) In addition, for inhalation studies the following should be reported:

(A) Test conditions. The following exposure conditions must be reported.
