
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9510 TSCA bacterial reverse mutation test.
####### Test method,Principle.

(e)-(1)(i) Suspensions of bacterial cells are exposed to the test substance in the presence and in the absence of an exogenous metabolic activation system. In the plate incorporation method, these suspensions are mixed with an overlay agar and plated immediately onto minimal medium. In the preincubation method, the treatment mixture is incubated and then mixed with an overlay agar before plating onto minimal medium. For both techniques, after 2 or 3 days of incubation, revertant colonies are counted and compared to the number of spontaneous revertant colonies on solvent control plates.

(ii) Several procedures for performing the bacterial reverse mutation test have been described. Among those commonly used are the plate incorporation method, the preincubation method, the fluctuation method, and the suspension method. Suggestions for modifications for the testing of gases or vapors are described in the reference in paragraph (g)(12) of this section.

(iii) The procedures described in this section pertain primarily to the plate incorporation and preincubation methods. Either of them is acceptable for conducting experiments both with and without metabolic activation. Some compounds may be detected more efficiently using the preincubation method. These compounds belong to chemical classes that include short chain aliphatic nitrosamines, divalent metals, aldehydes, azo-dyes and diazo compounds, pyrollizidine alkaloids, allyl compounds and nitro compounds. It is also recognized that certain classes of mutagens are not always detected using standard procedures such as the plate incorporation method or preincubation method. These should be regarded as "special cases" and it is strongly recommended that alternative procedures should be used for their detection. The following "special cases" could be identified (together with examples of procedures that could be used for their detection): azo-dyes and diazo compounds (alterative procedures are described in the references in paragraphs (g)(3), (g)(5), (g)(6), and (g)(13) of this section), gases and volatile chemicals (alterative procedures are described in the references in paragraphs (g)(12), (g)(14), (g)(15), and (g)(16) of this section), and glycosides (alterative procedures are described in the references in paragraphs (g)(17) and (g)(18) of this section). A deviation from the standard procedure needs to be scientifically justified.
