
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9510 TSCA bacterial reverse mutation test.
####### Metabolic activation.

(C)Bacteria shall be exposed to the test substance both in the presence and absence of an appropriate metabolic activation system. The most commonly used system is a cofactor-supplemented post-mitochondrial fraction (S9) prepared from the livers of rodents treated with enzyme-inducing agents such as Aroclor 1254 (the system described in the references under paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section may be used) or a combination of phenobarbitone and &#x3B2;-naphthoflavone (the system described in the references under paragraphs (g)(18), (g)(20), and (g)(21) of this section may be used). The post-mitochondrial fraction is usually used at concentrations in the range from 5 to 30% v/v in the S9-mix. The choice and condition of a metabolic activation system may depend upon the class of chemical being tested. In some cases it may be appropriate to utilize more than one concentration of post-mitochondrial fraction. For azo-dyes and diazo-compounds, using a reductive metabolic activation system may be more appropriate (the system described in the references under paragraphs (g)(6) and (g)(13) of this section may be used).
