
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9510 TSCA bacterial reverse mutation test.
####### Test report.

(3)The test report shall include the following information:

(i) Test substance:

(A) Identification data and CAS no., if known.

(B) Physical nature and purity.

(C) Physicochemical properties relevant to the conduct of the study.

(D) Stability of the test substance, if known.

(ii) Solvent/vehicle:

(A) Justification for choice of solvent/vehicle.

(B) Solubility and stability of the test substance in solvent/vehicle, if known.

(iii) Strains:

(A) Strains used.

(B) Number of cells per culture.

(C) Strain characteristics.

(iv) Test conditions:

(A) Amount of test substance per plate (mg/plate or ml/plate) with rationale for selection of dose and number of plates per concentration.

(B) Media used.

(C) Type and composition of metabolic activation system, including acceptability criteria.

(D) Treatment procedures.

(v) Results:

(A) Signs of toxicity.

(B) Signs of precipitation.

(C) Individual plate counts.

(D) The mean number of revertant colonies per plate and standard deviation.

(E) Dose-response relationship, where possible.

(F) Statistical analyses, if any.

(G) Concurrent negative (solvent/vehicle) and positive control data, with ranges, means and standard deviations.

(H) Historical negative (solvent/vehicle) and positive control data, with e.g. ranges, means and standard deviations.

(vi) Discussion of the results.

(vii) Conclusion.
