
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9510 TSCA bacterial reverse mutation test.
####### Data and reporting,Treatment of results.

(f)-(1)(i) Data shall be presented as the number of revertant colonies per plate. The number of revertant colonies on both negative (solvent control, and untreated control if used) and positive control plates shall also be given.

(ii) Individual plate counts, the mean number of revertant colonies per plate and the standard deviation shall be presented for the test substance and positive and negative (untreated and/or solvent) controls.

(iii) There is no requirement for verification of a clear positive response. Equivocal results shall be clarified by further testing preferably using a modification of experimental conditions. Negative results need to be confirmed on a case-by-case basis. In those cases where confirmation of negative results is not considered necessary, justification should be provided. Modification of study parameters to extend the range of conditions assessed should be considered in follow-up experiments. Study parameters that might be modified include the concentration spacing, the method of treatment (plate incorporation or liquid preincubation), and metabolic activation conditions.
