
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9510 TSCA bacterial reverse mutation test.
####### Procedure,Treatment with test substance.

(3)-(i)(A) For the plate incorporation method, without metabolic activation, usually 0.05 ml or 0.1 ml of the test solutions, 0.1 ml of fresh bacterial culture (containing approximately 10viable cells) and 0.5 ml of sterile buffer are mixed with 2.0 ml of overlay agar. For the assay with metabolic activation, usually 0.5 ml of metabolic activation mixture containing an adequate amount of post-mitochondrial fraction (in the range from 5 to 30% v/v in the metabolic activation mixture) are mixed with the overlay agar (2.0 ml), together with the bacteria and test substance/test solution. The contents of each tube are mixed and poured over the surface of a minimal agar plate. The overlay agar is allowed to solidify before incubation.

(B) For the preincubation method the test substance/test solution is preincubated with the test strain (containing approximately 10viable cells) and sterile buffer or the metabolic activation system (0.5 ml) usually for 20 min. or more at 30-37 &#xB0;C prior to mixing with the overlay agar and pouring onto the surface of a minimal agar plate. Usually, 0.05 or 0.1 ml of test substance/test solution, 0.1 ml of bacteria, and 0.5 ml of S9-mix or sterile buffer, are mixed with 2.0 ml of overlay agar. Tubes should be aerated during pre-incubation by using a shaker.

(C) For an adequate estimate of variation, triplicate plating should be used at each dose level. The use of duplicate plating is acceptable when scientifically justified. The occasional loss of a plate does not necessarily invalidate the assay.

(D) Gaseous or volatile substances should be tested by appropriate methods, such as in sealed vessels (methods described in the references under paragraphs (g)(12), (g)(14), (g)(15), and (g)(16) of this section may be used).
