
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9530 TSCA in vitro mammalian cell gene mutation test.
####### Initial considerations.,in vitro,in vitro,in vivo

(d)(1) In themammalian cell gene mutation test, cultures of established cell lines or cell strains can be used. The cells used are selected on the basis of growth ability in culture and stability of the spontaneous mutation frequency. Tests conductedgenerally require the use of an exogenous source of metabolic activation. This metabolic activation system cannot mimic entirely the mammalianconditions. Care should be taken to avoid conditions which would lead to results not reflecting intrinsic mutagenicity. Positive results which do not reflect intrinsic mutagenicity may arise from changes in pH, osmolality or high levels of cytotoxicity.

(2) This test is used to screen for possible mammalian mutagens and carcinogens. Many compounds that are positive in this test are mammalian carcinogens; however, there is not a perfect correlation between this test and carcinogenicity. Correlation is dependent on chemical class and there is increasing evidence that there are carcinogens that are not detected by this test because they appear to act through other, non-genotoxic mechanisms or mechanisms absent in bacterial cells.
