
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9530 TSCA in vitro mammalian cell gene mutation test.
####### Test report.

(3)The test report shall include the following information:

(i) Test substance:

(A) Identification data and CAS no., if known.

(B) Physical nature and purity.

(C) Physicochemical properties relevant to the conduct of the study.

(D) Stability of the test substance.

(ii) Solvent/vehicle:

(A) Justification for choice of vehicle/solvent.

(B) Solubility and stability of the test substance in solvent/vehicle, if known.

(iii) Cells:

(A) Type and source of cells.

(B) Number of cell cultures.

(C) Number of cell passages, if applicable.

(D) Methods for maintenance of cell cultures, if applicable.

(E) Absence of mycoplasma.

(iv) Test conditions:

(A) Rationale for selection of concentrations and number of cell cultures including e.g., cytotoxicity data and solubility limitations, if available.

(B) Composition of media, COconcentration.

(C) Concentration of test substance.

(D) Volume of vehicle and test substance added.

(E) Incubation temperature.

(F) Incubation time.

(G) Duration of treatment.

(H) Cell density during treatment.

(I) Type and composition of metabolic activation system including acceptability criteria.

(J) Positive and negative controls.

(K) Length of expression period (including number of cells seeded, and subcultures and feeding schedules, if appropriate).

(L) Selective agent(s).

(M) Criteria for considering tests as positive, negative or equivocal.

(N) Methods used to enumerate numbers of viable and mutant cells.

(O) Definition of colonies of which size and type are considered (including criteria for "small" and "large" colonies, as appropriate).

(v) Results:

(A) Signs of toxicity.

(B) Signs of precipitation.

(C) Data on pH and osmolality during the exposure to the test substance, if determined.

(D) Colony size if scored for at least negative and positive controls.

(E) Laboratory's adequacy to detect small colony mutants with the L5178Y TK/system, where appropriate.

(F) Dose-response relationship, where possible.

(G) Statistical analyses, if any.

(H) Concurrent negative (solvent/vehicle) and positive control data.

(I) Historical negative (solvent/vehicle) and positive control data with ranges, means, and standard deviations.

(J) Mutant frequency.

(vi) Discussion of the results.

(vii) Conclusion.
