
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9530 TSCA in vitro mammalian cell gene mutation test.
####### Data and reporting,Treatment of results.

(f)-(1)(i) Data shall include cytotoxicity and viability determination, colony counts and mutant frequencies for the treated and control cultures. In the case of a positive response in the L5178Y TK/test, colonies are scored using the criteria of small and large colonies on at least one concentration of the test substance (highest positive concentration) and on the negative and positive control. The molecular and cytogenetic nature of both large and small colony mutants has been explored in detail and is discussed in the references under paragraphs (g)(22) and (g)(23) of this section. In the TK/test, colonies are scored using the criteria of normal growth (large) and slow growth (small) colonies (a scoring system similar to the one described in the reference under paragraph (g)(24) of this section may be used). Mutant cells that have suffered the most extensive genetic damage have prolonged doubling times and thus form small colonies. This damage typically ranges in scale from the losses of the entire gene to karyotypically visible chromosome aberrations. The induction of small colony mutants has been associated with chemicals that induce gross chromosome aberrations. Less seriously affected mutant cells grow at rates similar to the parental cells and form large colonies.

(ii) Survival (relative cloning efficiencies) or relative total growth shall be given. Mutant frequency shall be expressed as number of mutant cells per number of surviving cells.

(iii) Individual culture data shall be provided. Additionally, all data shall be summarized in tabular form.

(iv) There is no requirement for verification of a clear positive response. Equivocal results shall be clarified by further testing preferably using a modification of experimental conditions. Negative results need to be confirmed on a case-by-case basis. In those cases where confirmation of negative results is not considered necessary, justification should be provided. Modification of study parameters to extend the range of conditions assessed should be considered in follow-up experiments for either equivocal or negative results. Study parameters that might be modified include the concentration spacing, and the metabolic activation conditions.
