
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9530 TSCA in vitro mammalian cell gene mutation test.
####### Measurement of survival, viability, and mutant frequency.

(ii)(A) At the end of the exposure period, cells shall be washed and cultured to determine survival and to allow for expression of the mutant phenotype. Measurement of cytotoxicity by determining the relative cloning efficiency (survival) or relative total growth of the cultures is usually initiated after the treatment period.

(B) Each locus has a defined minimum time requirement to allow near optimal phenotypic expression of newly induced mutants (HPRT and XPRT require at least 6-8 days, and TK at least 2 days). Cells are grown in medium with and without selective agent(s) for determination of numbers of mutants and cloning efficiency, respectively. The measurement of viability (used to calculate mutant frequency) is initiated at the end of the expression time by plating in non-selective medium.

(C) If the test substance is positive in the L5178Y TK/test, colony sizing should be performed on at least one of the test cultures (the highest positive concentration) and on the negative and positive controls. If the test substance is negative in the L5178Y TK/test, colony sizing should be performed on the negative and positive controls. In studies using TK6TK/, colony sizing may also be performed.
