
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9537 TSCA in vitro mammalian chromosome aberration test.
####### Controls.

(iii)(A) Concurrent positive and negative (solvent or vehicle) controls both with and without metabolic activation must be included in each experiment. When metabolic activation is used, the positive control chemical must be the one that requires activation to give a mutagenic response.

(B) Positive controls must employ a known clastogen at exposure levels expected to give a reproducible and detectable increase over background which demonstrates the sensitivity of the test system. Positive control concentrations should be chosen so that the effects are clear but do not immediately reveal the identity of the coded slides to the reader. Examples of positive-control substances include:

(C) Other appropriate positive control substances may be used. The use of chemical class-related positive-control chemicals may be considered, when available.

(D) Negative controls, consisting of solvent or vehicle alone in the treatment medium, and treated in the same way as the treatment cultures, must be included for every harvest time. In addition, untreated controls should also be used unless there are historical-control data demonstrating that no deleterious or mutagenic effects are induced by the chosen solvent.
