
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9537 TSCA in vitro mammalian chromosome aberration test.
####### Mycoplasma,

(C) Absence ofif applicable.

(D) Information on cell-cycle length.

(E) Sex of blood donors, whole blood or separated lymphocytes, mitogen used.

(F) Number of passages, if applicable.

(G) Methods for maintenance of cell cultures if applicable.

(H) Modal number of chromosomes.

(iv) Test conditions.

(A) Identity of metaphase arresting substance, its concentration and duration of cell exposure.

(B) Rationale for selection of concentrations and number of cultures including, e.g., cytotoxicity data and solubility limitations, if available.

(C) Composition of media, COconcentration if applicable.

(D) Concentration of test substance.

(E) Volume of vehicle and test substance added.

(F) Incubation temperature.

(G) Incubation time.

(H) Duration of treatment.

(I) Cell density at seeding, if appropriate.

(J) Type and composition of metabolic activation system, including acceptability criteria.

(K) Positive and negative controls.

(L) Methods of slide preparation.

(M) Criteria for scoring aberrations.

(N) Number of metaphases analyzed.

(O) Methods for the measurements of toxicity.

(P) Criteria for considering studies as positive, negative or equivocal.

(v) Results.

(A) Signs of toxicity, e.g., degree of confluency, cell-cycle data, cell counts, mitotic index.

(B) Signs of precipitation.

(C) Data on pH and osmolality of the treatment medium, if determined.

(D) Definition for aberrations, including gaps.

(E) Number of cells with chromosome aberrations and type of chromosome aberrations given separately for each treated and control culture.

(F) Changes in ploidy if seen.

(G) Dose-response relationship, where possible.

(H) Statistical analyses, if any.

(I) Concurrent negative (solvent/vehicle) and positive control data.

(J) Historical negative (solvent/vehicle) and positive control data, with ranges, means and standard deviations.

(vi) Discussion of the results.

(vii) Conclusion.
