
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9537 TSCA in vitro mammalian chromosome aberration test.
####### Evaluation and interpretation of results.

(2)(i) There are several criteria for determining a positive result, such as a concentration-related increase or a reproducible increase in the number of cells with chromosome aberrations. Biological relevance of the results should be considered first. Statistical methods may be used as an aid in evaluating the test results (see paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(13) of this section). Statistical significance should not be the only determining factor for a positive response.

(ii) An increase in the number of polyploid cells may indicate that the test substance has the potential to inhibit mitotic processes and to induce numerical chromosome aberrations. An increase in the number of cells with endoreduplicated chromosomes may indicate that the test substance has the potential to inhibit cell-cycle progression (the test techniques described in the references under paragraphs (i)(17) and (i)(18) of this section may be used).

(iii) A test substance for which the results do not meet the criteria in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (h)(2)(ii) of this section is considered nonmutagenic in this system.

(iv) Although most experiments will give clearly positive or negative results, in rare cases the data set will preclude making a definite judgement about the activity of the test substance. Results may remain equivocal or questionable regardless of the number of times the experiment is repeated.
