
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9538 TSCA mammalian bone marrow chromosomal aberration test.
####### Treatment schedule.

(ii)(A) Test substances are preferably administered as a single treatment. Test substances may also be administered as a split dose, i.e. two treatments on the same day separated by no more than a few hrs, to facilitate administering a large volume of material. Other dose regimens should be scientifically justified.

(B) Samples shall be taken at two separate times following treatment on one day. For rodents, the first sampling interval is 1.5 normal cell cycle length (the latter being normally 12-18 hr) following treatment. Since the time required for uptake and metabolism of the test substance as well as its effect on cell cycle kinetics can affect the optimum time for chromosome aberration detection, a later sample collection 24 hr after the first sample time is recommended. If dose regimens of more than one day are used, one sampling time at 1.5 normal cell cycle lengths after the final treatment should be used.

(C) Prior to sacrifice, animals shall be injected intraperitoneally with an appropriate dose of a metaphase arresting agent (e.g. Colcemid &#xAE; or colchicine). Animals are sampled at an appropriate interval thereafter. For mice this interval is approximately 3-5 hrs; for Chinese hamsters this interval is approximately 4-5 hrs. Cells shall be harvested from the bone marrow and analyzed from chromosome aberrations.
