
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9538 TSCA mammalian bone marrow chromosomal aberration test.
####### Evaluation and interpretation of results.

(2)(i) There are several criteria for determining a positive result, such as a dose-related increase in the relative number of cells with chromosome aberrations or a clear increase in the number of cells with aberrations in a single dose group at a single sampling time. Biological relevance of the results should be considered first. Statistical methods may be used as an aid in evaluating the test results (some statistical methods are described in the reference under paragraph (g)(6) of this section). Statistical significance should not be the only determining factor for a positive response. Equivocal results should be clarified by further testing preferably using a modification of experimental conditions.

(ii) An increase in polyploidy may indicate that the test substance has the potential to induce numerical chromosome aberrations. An increase in endoreduplication may indicate that the test substance has the potential to inhibit cell cycle progression. This phenomenon is described in the references under paragraphs (g)(7) and (g)(8) of this section.

(iii) A test substance for which the results do not meet the criteria described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section is considered non-mutagenic in this test.

(iv) Although most experiments will give clearly positive or negative results, in rare cases the data set will preclude making a definite judgment about the activity of the test substance. Results may remain equivocal or questionable regardless of the number of experiments performed.
