
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9538 TSCA mammalian bone marrow chromosomal aberration test.
####### Test report.

(3)The test report shall include the following information:

(i) Test substance:

(A) Identification data and CAS No., if known.

(B) Physical nature and purity.

(C) Physicochemical properties relevant to the conduct of the study.

(D) Stability of the test substance, if known.

(ii) Solvent/vehicle:

(A) Justification for choice of vehicle.

(B) Solubility and stability of the test substance in solvent/vehicle, if known.

(iii) Test animals:

(A) Species/strain used.

(B) Number, age and sex of animals.

(C) Source, housing conditions, diet, etc.

(D) Individual weight of the animals at the start of the test, including body weight range, mean and standard deviation for each group.

(iv) Test conditions:

(A) Positive and negative (vehicle/solvent) controls.

(B) Data from range-finding study, if conducted.

(C) Rationale for dose level selection.

(D) Details of test substance preparation.

(E) Details of the administration of the test substance.

(F) Rationale for route of administration.

(G) Methods for verifying that the test substance reached the general circulation or target tissue, if applicable.

(H) Conversion from diet/drinking water test substance concentration parts per million (ppm) to the actual dose (mg/kg body weight/day), if applicable.

(I) Details of food and water quality.

(J) Detailed description of treatment and sampling schedules.

(K) Methods for measurement of toxicity.

(L) Identity of metaphase arresting substance, its concentration and duration of treatment.

(M) Methods of slide preparation.

(N) Criteria for scoring aberrations.

(O) Number of cells analyzed per animal.

(P) Criteria for considering studies as positive, negative or equivocal.

(v) Results:

(A) Signs of toxicity.

(B) Mitotic index.

(C) Type and number of aberrations, given separately for each animal.

(D) Total number of aberrations per group with means and standard deviations.

(E) Number of cells with aberrations per group with means and standard deviations.

(F) Changes in ploidy, if seen.

(G) Dose-response relationship, where possible.

(H) Statistical analyses, if any.

(I) Concurrent negative control data.

(J) Historical negative control data with ranges, means and standard deviations.

(K) Concurrent positive control data.

(vi) Discussion of the results.

(vii) Conclusion.
