
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9539 TSCA mammalian erythrocyte micronucleus test.
####### Evaluation and interpretation of results.

(2)(i) There are several criteria for determining a positive result, such as a dose-related increase in the number of micronucleated cells or a clear increase in the number of micronucleated cells in a single dose group at a single sampling time. Biological relevance of the results should be considered first. Statistical methods may be used as an aid in evaluating the test results (the test techniques described in the references paragraphs (g)(14) and (g)(15) of this section may be used). Statistical significance should not be the only determining factor for a positive response. Equivocal results should be clarified by further testing preferably using a modification of experimental conditions.

(ii) A test substance for which the results do not meet the criteria in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section is considered non-mutagenic in this test.

(iii) Although most experiments will give clearly positive or negative results, in rare cases the data set will preclude making a definite judgement about the activity of the test substance. Results, may remain equivocal or questionable regardless of the number of times the experiment is repeated. Positive results in the micronucleus test indicate that a substance induces micronuclei which are the result of chromosomal damage or damage to the mitotic apparatus in the erythroblasts of the test species. Negative results indicate that, under the test conditions, the test substance does not produce micronuclei in the immature erythrocytes of the test species.

(iv) The likelihood that the test substance or its metabolites reach the general circulation or specifically the target tissue (e.g. systemic toxicity) should be discussed.
