
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9539 TSCA mammalian erythrocyte micronucleus test.
####### Bone marrow/blood preparation.

(vi)Bone marrow cells shall be obtained from the femurs or tibias immediately following sacrifice. Cells shall be removed from femurs or tibias, prepared and stained using established methods. Peripheral blood is obtained from the tail vein or other appropriate blood vessel. Blood cells are immediately stained supravitally (the test techniques described in the references under paragraphs (g)(4), (g)(5), and (g)(6) of this section may be used) or smear preparations are made and then stained. The use of a DNA specific stain (e.g. acridine orange (techniques described in the reference under paragraph (g)(10) of this section may be used) or Hoechst 33258 plus pyronin-Y) can eliminate some of the artifacts associated with using a non-DNA specific stain. This advantage does not preclude the use of conventional stains (e.g., Giemsa). Additional systems (e.g. cellulose columns to remove nucleated cells (the test techniques described in the references under paragraph (g)(12) of this section may be used)) can also be used provided that these systems have been shown to adequately work for micronucleus preparation in the laboratory.
