
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9539 TSCA mammalian erythrocyte micronucleus test.
####### Test report.

(3)The test report shall include the following information:

(i) Test substance:

(A) Identification data and CAS no., if known.

(B) Physical nature and purity.

(C) Physiochemical properties relevant to the conduct of the study.

(D) Stability of the test substance, if known.

(ii) Solvent/vehicle:

(A) Justification for choice of vehicle.

(B) Solubility and stability of the test substance in the solvent/vehicle, if known.

(iii) Test animals:

(A) Species/strain used.

(B) Number, age, and sex of animals.

(C) Source, housing conditions, diet, etc.

(D) Individual weight of the animals at the start of the test, including body weight range, mean and standard deviation for each group.

(iv) Test conditions:

(A) Positive and negative (vehicle/solvent) control data.

(B) Data from range-finding study, if conducted.

(C) Rationale for dose level selection.

(D) Details of test substance preparation.

(E) Details of the administration of the test substance.

(F) Rationale for route of administration.

(G) Methods for verifying that the test substance reached the general circulation or target tissue, if applicable.

(H) Conversion from diet/drinking water test substance concentration parts per million (ppm) to the actual dose (mg/kg body weight/day), if applicable.

(I) Details of food and water quality.

(J) Detailed description of treatment and sampling schedules.

(K) Methods of slide preparation.

(L) Methods for measurement of toxicity.

(M) Criteria for scoring micronucleated immature erythrocytes.

(N) Number of cells analyzed per animal.

(O) Criteria for considering studies as positive, negative or equivocal.

(v) Results:

(A) Signs of toxicity.

(B) Proportion of immature erythrocytes among total erythrocytes.

(C) Number of micronucleated immature erythrocytes, given separately for each animal.

(D) Mean = +/-standard deviation of micronucleated immature erythrocytes per group.

(E) Dose-response relationship, where possible.

(F) Statistical analyses and method applied.

(G) Concurrent and historical negative control data.

(H) Concurrent positive control data.

(vi) Discussion of the results.

(vii) Conclusion.
