
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9620 TSCA neurotoxicity screening battery.
####### Scope.

(a)This section is intended to meet the testing requirements under section 4 of TSCA. This neurotoxicity screening battery consists of a functional observational battery, motor activity, and neuropathology. The functional observational battery consists of noninvasive procedures designed to detect gross functional deficits in animals and to better quantify behavioral or neurological effects detected in other studies. The motor activity test uses an automated device that measures the level of activity of an individual animal. The neuropathological techniques are designed to provide data to detect and characterize histopathological changes in the central and peripheral nervous system. This battery is designed to be used in conjunction with general toxicity studies and changes should be evaluated in the context of both the concordance between functional neurological and neuropatholgical effects, and with respect to any other toxicological effects seen. This test battery is not intended to provide a complete evaluation of neurotoxicity, and additional functional and morphological evaluation may be necessary to assess completely the neurotoxic potential of a chemical.
