
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9620 TSCA neurotoxicity screening battery.
####### Control groups.

(3)(i) A concurrent (vehicle) control group is required. Subjects shall be treated in the same way as for an exposure group except that administration of the test substance is omitted. If the vehicle used has known or potential toxic properties, both untreated or saline treated and vehicle control groups are required.

(ii) Positive control data from the laboratory performing the testing shall provide evidence of the ability of the observational methods used to detect major neurotoxic endpoints including limb weakness or paralysis, tremor, and autonomic signs. Positive control data are also required to demonstrate the sensitivity and reliability of the activity-measuring device and testing procedures. These data should demonstrate the ability to detect chemically induced increases and decreases in activity. Positive control groups exhibiting central nervous system pathology and peripheral nervous system pathology are also required. Separate groups for peripheral and central neuropathology are acceptable (e.g. acrylamide and trimethyl tin). Permanently injurious substances need not be used for the behavioral tests. Historical data may be used if the essential aspects of the experimental procedure remain the same. Periodic updating of positive control data is recommended. New positive control data should also be collected when personnel or some other critical element in the testing laboratory has changed.
