
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9620 TSCA neurotoxicity screening battery.
####### Functional observational battery,General conduct.

(ii)-(A)All animals in a given study shall be observed carefully by trained observers who are unaware of the animals' treatment, using standardized procedures to minimize observer variability. Where possible, it is advisable that the same observer be used to evaluate the animals in a given study. If this is not possible, some demonstration of interobserver reliability is required. The animals shall be removed from the home cage to a standard arena for observation. Effort should be made to ensure that variations in the test conditions are minimal and are not systematically related to treatment. Among the variables that can affect behavior are sound level, temperature, humidity, lighting, odors, time of day, and environmental distractions. Explicit, operationally defined scales for each measure of the battery are to be used. The development of objective quantitative measures of the observational end-points specified is encouraged. Examples of observational procedures using defined protocols may be found in the references under paragraphs (g)(5), (g)(6), and (g)(9) of this section. The functional observational battery shall include a thorough description of the subject's appearance, behavior, and functional integrity. This shall be assessed through observations in the home cage and while the rat is moving freely in an open field, and through manipulative tests. Testing should proceed from the least to the most interactive with the subject. Scoring criteria, or explicitly defined scales, should be developed for those measures which involve subjective ranking.
