
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9620 TSCA neurotoxicity screening battery.
####### Neuropathology: Collection, processing and examination of tissue samples.

(iv)To provide for adequate sampling as well as optimal preservation of cellular integrity for the detection of neuropathological alterations, tissue shall be prepared for histological analysis using in situ perfusion and paraffin and/or plastic embedding procedures. Paraffin embedding is acceptable for tissue samples from the central nervous system. Plastic embedding of tissue samples from the central nervous system is encouraged, when feasible. Plastic embedding is required for tissue samples from the peripheral nervous system. Subject to professional judgment and the type of neuropathological alterations observed, it is recommended that additional methods, such as glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry and/or methods known as Bodian's or Bielchowsky's silver methods be used in conjunction with more standard stains to determine the lowest dose level at which neuropathological alterations are observed. When new or existing data provide evidence of structural alterations it is recommended that the GFAP immunoassay also be considered. A description of this technique can be found in the reference under paragraph (g)(10) of this section.
