
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9630 TSCA developmental neurotoxicity.
####### Results.

(2)The following information must be arranged by each treatment and control group:

(i) In tabular form, data for each animal must be provided showing:

(A) Its identification number and the litter from which it came.

(B) Its body weight and score on each developmental landmark at each observation time.

(C) Total session activity counts and intrasession subtotals on each day measured.

(D) Auditory startle response amplitude per session and intrasession amplitudes on each day measured.

(E) Appropriate data for each repeated trial (or session) showing acquisition and retention scores on the tests of learning and memory on each day measured.

(F) Time and cause of death (if appropriate); any neurological signs observed; a list of structures examined as well as the locations, nature, frequency, and extent of lesions; and brain weights.

(ii) The following data should also be provided, as appropriate:

(A) Inclusion of photomicrographs demonstrating typical examples of the type and extent of the neuropathological alterations observed is recommended.

(B) Any diagnoses derived from neurological signs and lesions, including naturally occurring diseases or conditions, should also be recorded.

(iii) Summary data for each treatment and control group must include:

(A) The number of animals at the start of the test.

(B) The body weight of the dams during gestation and lactation.

(C) Litter size and mean weight at birth.

(D) The number of animals showing each abnormal sign at each observation time.

(E) The percentage of animals showing each abnormal sign at each observation time.

(F) The mean and standard deviation for each continuous endpoint at each observation time. These will include body weight, motor activity counts, auditory startle responses, performance in learning and memory tests, regional brain weights and whole brain weights (both absolute and relative).

(G) The number of animals in which any lesion was found.

(H) The number of animals affected by each different type of lesion, the location, frequency and average grade of each type of lesion for each animal.

(I) The values of all morphometric measurements made for each animal listed by treatment group.
