
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9748 TSCA metabolism and pharmacokinetics
####### Tier testing.

(4)(i) The multiplicity of metabolic parameters that impact the outcome of toxicological evaluations preclude the use of a universal study design for routine toxicological evaluation of a test substance. The usefulness of a particular study design depends upon the biological activity of a compound and circumstances of exposure. For these reasons, a tiered system is proposed for evaluation of the metabolism/kinetic properties of a test substance.

(ii) The first tier data set is a definitive study by the appropriate route of exposure conducted in male rats to determine the routes and rate of excretion and to identify excreted metabolites. First tier data will also provide basic information for additional testing (Tier 2) if such testing is considered necessary. In the majority of cases, Tier 1 data are expected to satisfy regulatory requirements for biotransformation and pharmacokinetic data on test chemicals.

(iii) Second tier testing describes a variety of metabolism/kinetic experiments which address specific questions based on the existing toxicology data base and/or those results of Tier 1 testing impacting significantly on the risk assessment process. For conduct of these studies, individualized protocols may be necessary. Protocols for these studies, if required, can be developed as a cooperative effort between Agency and industry scientists.
