
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9748 TSCA metabolism and pharmacokinetics
####### Material to be tested,Test substance.

(3)-(i)(A) A radiolabeled test substance usingC should be used for all material balance and metabolite identification aspects of the study. Other radioactive and stable isotopes may be used, particularly if the element is responsible for or is a part of the toxic portion of the compound. If it can be demonstrated that the material balance and metabolite identification requirements can be met using unlabeled test substance, then radiolabeled compound need not be used. If possible, the radiolabel should be located in a core portion of the molecule which is metabolically stable (it is not exchangeable, is not removed metabolically as CO, and does not become part of the one-carbon pool of the organism). Labeling of multiple sites of the molecule may be necessary to follow the metabolic fate of the compound.

(B) The label should follow the test compound and/or its major metabolites until excreted. The radiopurity of the radioactive test substance shall be the highest attainable for a particular test substance (ideally it should be greater than 95%) and reasonable effort should be made to identify impurities present at or above 2%. The purity, along with the identity of major impurities which have been identified, shall be reported. For other segments of the study, nonradioactive test substance may be used if it can be demonstrated that the analytical specificity and sensitivity of the method used with nonradioactive test substance is equal to or greater than that which could be obtained with the radiolabeled test substance. The radioactive and nonradioactive test substances shall be analyzed using an appropriate method to establish purity and identity. Additional guidance will be provided in chemical specific test rules to assist in the definition and specifications of test substances composed of mixtures and methods for determination of purity.
