
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9748 TSCA metabolism and pharmacokinetics
####### Measurements,Excretion.

(3)-(i)(A) Data obtained from this section (percent recovery of administered dose from urine, feces, and expired air) will be used to determine the rate and extent of excretion of test chemical, to assist in establishing mass balance, and will be used in conjunction with pharmacokinetic parameters to determine the extent of absorption. The quantities of radioactivity eliminated in the urine, feces, and expired air shall be determined separately at appropriate time intervals.

(B) If a pilot study has shown that no significant amount of radioactivity is excreted in expired air, then expired air need not be collected in the definitive study.

(C) Each animal must be placed in a separate metabolic unit for collection of excreta (urine, feces and expired air). At the end of each collection period, the metabolic units must be rinsed with appropriate solvent to ensure maximum recovery of radiolabel. Excreta collection must be terminated at 7 days, or after at least 90% of the administered dose has been recovered, whichever occurs first. The total quantities of radioactivity in urine must be determined at 6, 12, and 24 hours on day 1 of collection, and daily thereafter until study termination, unless pilot studies suggest alternate or additional time points for collection. The total quantities of radioactivity in feces should be determined on a daily basis beginning at 24 hours post-dose, and daily thereafter until study termination. The collection of COand other volatile materials may be discontinued when less than 1% of the administered dose is found in the exhaled air during a 24-hour collection period.
