
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9748 TSCA metabolism and pharmacokinetics
####### Metabolism.

(iii)Excreta must be collected for identification and quantitation of unchanged test substance and metabolites as described in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section. Pooling of excreta to facilitate metabolite identification within a given dose group is acceptable. Profiling of metabolites from each time period is recommended. However, if lack of sample and/or radioactivity precludes this, pooling of urine as well as pooling of feces across several time points is acceptable. Appropriate qualitative and quantitative methods must be used to assay urine, feces, and expired air from treated animals. Reasonable efforts should be made to identify all metabolites present at 5% or greater of the administered dose and to provide a metabolic scheme for the test chemical. Compounds which have been characterized in excreta as comprising 5% or greater of the administered dose should be identified. If identification at this level is not possible, a justification/explanation should be provided in the final report. Identification of metabolites representing less than 5% of the administered dose might be requested if such data are needed for risk assessment of the test chemical. Structural confirmation should be provided whenever possible. Validation of the methods used in metabolite identification should be included.
