
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9748 TSCA metabolism and pharmacokinetics
####### Absorption.

(1)(i) If the extent of absorption cannot be established from Tier 1 studies, or where greater than 20% of the administered dose is present in feces, a study to determine the extent of absorption will be required. This can be accomplished either through intravenous administration of test material and measurement of radioactivity in excreta or after oral administration of test material and measurement of radioactivity in bile.

(ii) For the intravenous study, a single dose (not to exceed the oral dose used in Tier 1) of test chemical using an appropriate vehicle should be administered in a suitable volume (e.g., 1 mL/kg) at a suitable site to at least three male rats (both sexes might be used if warranted). The disposition of the test chemical should be monitored for oral dosing as outlined in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section. Metabolite identification will not be required for this study.

(iii) If a biliary excretion study is chosen the oral route of administration may be requested. In this study, the bile ducts of at least three male rats (or of both sexes, if warranted) should be appropriately cannulated and a single dose of the test chemical should be administered to these rats. Following administration of the test chemical, excretion of radioactivity in bile should be monitored as long as necessary to determine if a significant percentage of the administered dose is excreted via this route.
