
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9748 TSCA metabolism and pharmacokinetics
####### Alternate routes of exposure for Tier 1 testing,Dermal,Dermal treatment.

(i)-(1)-(i)One (or more if needed) dose levels of the test substance must be used in the dermal portion of the study. The low dose level should be selected in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The dermal doses must be dissolved, if necessary, in a suitable vehicle and applied in a volume adequate to deliver the doses. Shortly before testing, fur is to be clipped from the dorsal area of the trunk of the test animals. Shaving may be employed, but it should be carried out approximately 24 hour before the test. When clipping or shaving the fur, care should be taken to avoid abrading the skin, which could alter its permeability. Approximately 10% of the body surface should be cleared for application of the test substance. With highly toxic substances, the surface area covered may be less than approximately 10%, but as much of the area as possible is to be covered with a thin and uniform film. The same nominal treatment surface area must be used for all dermal test groups. The dosed areas are to be protected with a suitable covering which is secured in place. The animals must be housed separately.
