
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9748 TSCA metabolism and pharmacokinetics
####### Results.

(iv)All data should be summarized and tabulated with appropriate statistical evaluation and placed in the text of this section. Radioactivity counting data should be summarized and presented as appropriate for the study, typically as disintegrations per minute and microgram or milligram equivalents, although other units may be used. Graphic illustrations of the findings, reproduction of representative chromatographic and spectrometric data, and proposed metabolic pathways and molecular structure of metabolites should be included in this section. In addition the following information is to be included in this section if applicable:

(A) Justification for modification of exposure conditions, if applicable.

(B) Justification for selection of dose levels for pharmacokinetic and metabolism studies.

(C) Description of pilot studies used in the experimental design of the pharmacokinetic and metabolism studies, if applicable.

(D) Quantity and percent recovery of radioactivity in urine, feces, and expired air, as appropriate. For dermal studies, include recovery data for treated skin, skin washes, and residual radioactivity in the covering apparatus and metabolic unit as well as results of the dermal washing study.

(E) Tissue distribution reported as percent of administered dose and microgram equivalents per gram of tissue.

(F) Material balance developed from each study involving the assay of body tissues and excreta.

(G) Plasma levels and pharmacokinetic parameters after administration by the relevant routes of exposure.

(H) Rate and extent of absorption of the test substance after administration by the relevant routes of exposure.

(I) Quantities of the test substance and metabolites (reported as percent of the administered dose) collected in excreta.

(J) Individual animal data.
