
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9780 TSCA immunotoxicity.
####### Administration of the test substance.

(5)(i) The test substance, vehicle, or positive control substance shall be administered for at least 28 days for the anti-SRBC assay. The route of administration of the test material will usually be oral; however, this shall be determined by the likely route of occupational or indoor exposure. Therefore, under certain conditions, the dermal or inhalation route of exposure may be more relevant for the study. All animals shall be dosed by the same method during the entire experimental period.

(ii) If the test substance is administered by gavage, the animals are dosed with the test substance ideally on a 7-days-per-week basis. However, based primarily on practical considerations, dosing by gavage on a 5-days-per-week basis shall be acceptable. If the test substance is administered in the drinking water, or mixed directly into the diet, then exposure shall be on a 7-days-per-week basis.

(A) For substances of low toxicity, it is important to ensure that when administered in the diet, the quantities of the test substance involved do not interfere with normal nutrition. When the test substance is administered in the diet, either a constant dietary concentration in parts per million (ppm) or a constant dose level in terms of the animal's body weight shall be used; the alternative used should be specified.

(B) For a substance administered by gavage, the dose shall be given at approximately the same time each day, and adjusted at intervals (weekly for mice, twice per week for rats) to maintain a constant dose level in terms of the animal's body weight.

(iii) If the test substance is administered dermally, use paragraphs (f)(5)(iii)(A) through (f)(5)(iii)(D) of this section.
