
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9780 TSCA immunotoxicity.
####### Control and test substances.

(2)(i) The test substance shall be dissolved or suspended in a suitable vehicle. Ideally, if a vehicle or diluent is needed, it shall not elicit toxic effects or substantially alter the chemical or toxicological properties of the test substance. It is recommended that an aqueous solution should be used. If solubility is a problem a solution in oil may be used. Other vehicles may be considered, but only as a last resort.

(ii) One lot of the test substance shall be used, if possible, throughout the duration of the study, and the research sample shall be stored under conditions that maintain its purity and stability. Prior to the initiation of the study, there shall be a characterization of the test substance, including the purity of the test compound and if technically feasible, the name and quantities of any known contaminants and impurities.

(iii) If the test or positive control substance is to be incorporated into feed or another vehicle, the period during which the test substance is stable in such a mixture shall be determined prior to the initiation of the study. Its homogeneity and concentration shall also be determined prior to the initiation of the study and periodically during the study. Statistically randomized samples of the mixture shall be analyzed to ensure that proper mixing, formulation, and storage procedures are being followed, and that the appropriate concentration of the test or control substance is contained in the mixture.
