
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9780 TSCA immunotoxicity.
####### Antibody plaque-forming cell (PFC) assay.

(i)If the antibody PFC assay is performed, the criteria listed under paragraphs (g)(1)(i)(A) through (g)(1)(i)(F) of this section shall be adhered to. Assays described in the references under paragraphs (j)(2) and (j)(4) of this section may be used.

(A) The T cell-dependent antigen, SRBC, shall be injected intravenously or intraperitoneally, usually at 24 days after the first dosing with the test substance.Although the optimum response time is usually 4 days after immunization, some strains of test animal may deviate from this time point. The strain to be used shall be evaluated for the optimum day for PFC formation after immunization.

(B) The activity of each new batch of complement shall be determined. For any given study, the SRBCs shall be from a single sheep, or pool of sheep, for which the shelf life and dose for optimum response has been determined.

(C) Modifications of the PFC assay described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section exist and may prove useful; however, the complete citation shall be made for the method used, any modifications to the method shall be reported, and the source and, where appropriate, the activity or purity of important reagents shall be given. Justification or rationale shall be provided for each protocol modification. Discussions of modifications of the PFC assay are available in the references under paragraphs (j)(5),(j)(6), and (j)(10) of this section

(D) Samples shall be randomized and shall be coded for PFC analysis, so that the analyst is unaware of the treatment group of each sample examined.

(E) Spleen cell viability shall be determined.

(F) The numbers of IgM PFC per spleen, and the number of IgM PFC per 10spleen cells shall be reported.
