
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9780 TSCA immunotoxicity.
####### Observation of animals.

(7)(i) Observations shall be made at least once each day for morbidity and mortality. Appropriate actions shall be taken to minimize loss of animals to the study (e.g., necropsy of those animals found dead and isolation or euthanasia of weak or moribund animals).

(ii) A careful clinical examination shall be made at least once a week. Observations shall be detailed and carefully recorded, preferably using explicitly defined scales. Observations shall include, but not be limited to: evaluation of skin and fur, eyes and mucous membranes; respiratory and circulatory effects; autonomic effects, such as salivation; central nervous system effects, including tremors and convulsions, changes in the level of motor activity, gait and posture, reactivity to handling or sensory stimuli, grip strength, and stereotypes or bizarre behavior (e.g., self-mutilation, walking backwards).

(iii) Signs of toxicity shall be recorded as they are observed, including the time of onset, degree and duration.

(iv) Food and water consumption shall be determined weekly.

(v) Animals shall be weighed immediately prior to dosing, weekly (twice per week for rats) thereafter, and just prior to euthanasia.

(vi) Any moribund animals shall be removed and euthanized when first noticed. Necropsies shall be conducted on all moribund animals, and on all animals that die during the study.

(vii) The spleen and thymus shall be weighed in all animals at the end of the study.
