
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter R - Toxic Substances Control Act
#### PART 799 - IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE AND MIXTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Health Effects Test Guidelines
###### ยง 799.9780 TSCA immunotoxicity.
####### Natural killer (NK) cell activity.

(iii)The methods described in the reference under paragraph (j)(3) of this section may be used to demonstrate the effects of at least 28 days of exposure to a test substance on spontaneous cytotoxic activity. In this assay, splenocytes from treated and untreated test animals are incubated withCr-labeled YAC-1 lymphoma cells. The amount of radiolabel released from the target cells after incubation with the effector cells for four hrs is used as a measure of NK cytolysis. The following points shall be adhered to when using the NK cell assay:

(A) Assay controls shall be included to account for spontaneous release of radiolabel from target cells in the absence of effector cells, and also for the determination of total release of radiolabel.

(B) Target cells other than YAC-1 lymphoma cells may be appropriate for use in the assay. In all cases, target cell viability shall be determined.

(C) Modifications of the protocol exist that may prove useful. However, complete citation shall be made to the method used. Modifications shall be reported, and where appropriate, the source, activity, and/or purity of the reagents should be given. Justification or rationale shall be provided for each protocol modification.
