
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1027 - FEES FOR VEHICLE AND ENGINE COMPLIANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 1027.101 To whom do these requirements apply?

(a) This part prescribes fees manufacturers must pay for activities related to EPA's motor vehicle and engine compliance program (MVECP). This includes activities related to approving certificates of conformity and performing tests and taking other steps to verify compliance with emission standards in this part. You must pay fees as described in this part if you are a manufacturer of any of the following products:

(1) Motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 86 or 1036. This includes light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, medium-duty passenger vehicles, highway motorcycles, and heavy-duty highway engines and vehicles.

(2) The following nonroad engines and equipment:

(i) Locomotives and locomotive engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1033.

(ii) Nonroad compression-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1039.

(iii) Marine compression-ignition engines we regulate under 40 CFR part 1042 or 1043.

(iv) Marine spark-ignition engines and vessels we regulate under 40 CFR part 1045 or 1060. We refer to these as Marine SI engines.

(v) Nonroad spark-ignition engines above 19 kW we regulate under 40 CFR part 1048. We refer to these as Large SI engines.

(vi) Recreational vehicles we regulate under 40 CFR part 1051.

(vii) Nonroad spark-ignition engines and equipment at or below 19 kW we regulate under 40 CFR part 1054 or 1060. We refer to these as Small SI engines.

(3) The following stationary internal combustion engines:

(i) Stationary compression-ignition engines we certify under 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII.

(ii) Stationary spark-ignition engines we certify under 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ.

(4) Portable fuel containers we regulate under 40 CFR part 59, subpart F.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) Nothing in this part limits our authority to conduct testing or to require you to conduct testing as provided in the Act, including our authority to require you to conduct in-use testing under section 208 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7542).

(d) Paragraph (a) of this section identifies the parts of the CFR that define emission standards and other requirements for particular types of engines, vehicles, and fuel-system components. This part 1027 refers to each of these other parts generically as the "standard-setting part." For example, 40 CFR part 1051 is always the standard-setting part for recreational vehicles. For some nonroad engines, we allow for certification related to evaporative emissions separate from exhaust emissions. In this case, 40 CFR part 1060 is the standard-setting part for the equipment or fuel system components you produce.
