
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1027 - FEES FOR VEHICLE AND ENGINE COMPLIANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 1027.110 What special provisions apply for certification related to motor vehicles?
###### Federal certificates.

(2)Calculate adjusted fees for federal certificates with the following three steps:

(i) Apply the light-duty, medium-duty passenger, and complete heavy-duty highway vehicle certification Op and L values to the equation in ยง 1027.105(c) to determine the certification portion of the light-duty fee. The total number of certificates issued will be the total number of California-only and federal light-duty, medium-duty passenger and complete heavy-duty highway vehicle certificates issued during the appropriate model years.

(ii) Apply the light-duty, medium-duty passenger, and complete heavy-duty highway vehicle in-use testing Op and L values to the equation in ยง 1027.105(c) to determine the in-use testing portion of the fee. The total number of certificates issued will be the total number of federal light-duty, medium-duty passenger, and complete heavy-duty highway vehicle certificates issued during the appropriate model years.

(iii) Add the certification and in-use testing portions determined in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section to determine the total light-duty, medium-duty passenger, and complete heavy-duty highway vehicle fee for each federal certificate.

(b) For light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, medium-duty passenger vehicles, highway motorcycles, and complete heavy-duty highway vehicles subject to exhaust emission standards, the number of certificates issued as specified in ยง 1027.105(d)(3) is based only on engine families with respect to exhaust emissions. A separate fee applies for each evaporative family for heavy-duty engines.

(c) If you manufacture a heavy-duty vehicle that another company has certified as an incomplete vehicle such that you exceed the maximum fuel tank size specified by the original manufacturer in the applicable certificate of conformity, you must submit a new application for certification and certification fee for the vehicle.
