
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1027 - FEES FOR VEHICLE AND ENGINE COMPLIANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 1027.120 Can I qualify for reduced fees?
###### Initial reduced fee calculation.

(b)(1) If the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section are met, the initial fee paid must be $750 or 1.0% of the aggregate projected retail sales price of all the vehicles or engines to be covered by the certificate, whichever is greater.

(2) For vehicles or engines that are converted to operate on an alternative fuel using as the basis for the conversion a vehicle or engine that is covered by an existing certificate of conformity, the cost basis used in this section must be the aggregate projected retail value-added to the vehicle or engine by the conversion rather than the full cost of the vehicle or engine. For this provision to apply, the existing certificate must cover the same sales area and model year as the requested certificate for the converted vehicle or engine.

(3) For remanufacturing systems, the cost basis used in this section must be the aggregate projected retail cost of a complete remanufacture, including the cost of the replacement components, software, and assembly.

(4) For ICI certification applications, the cost basis of this section must be the aggregate projected retail cost of the entire vehicle(s) or engine(s), not just the value added by the conversion. If the vehicles/engines covered by an ICI certificate are not being offered for sale, the manufacturer shall use the fair retail market value of the vehicles/engines as the retail sale price required in this section. For an ICI application for certification, the retail sales price (or fair retail market value) must be based on the applicable National Automobile Dealer's Association (NADA) appraisal guide and/or other evidence of the actual market value.

(5) The aggregate cost used in this section must be based on the total projected sales of all vehicles and engines under a certificate, including vehicles and engines modified under the modification and test option in 40 CFR 85.1509 and 89.609. The projection of the number of vehicles or engines to be covered by the certificate and their projected retail selling price must be based on the latest information available at the time of the fee payment.

(6) You may submit a reduced fee as described in this section if it is accompanied by a calculation of the fee based on the number of vehicles covered and the projected aggregate retail sales price as specified on the fee filing form. Your reduced fee calculation shall be deemed approved unless we determine that the criteria of this section have not been met. We may make such a determination either before or after issuing a certificate of conformity. If we determine that the requirements of this section have not been met, we may deny future reduced fee applications and require submission of the full fee payment until you demonstrate to our satisfaction that your reduced fee submissions are based on accurate data and that final fee payments are made within 45 days of the end of the model year.

(7) If we deny your request for a reduced fee, you must send us the appropriate fee within 30 days after we notify you.
