
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1027 - FEES FOR VEHICLE AND ENGINE COMPLIANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 1027.105 How much are the fees?

(a) Fees are determined based on the date we receive a complete application for certification. Each reference to a year in this subpart refers to the calendar year, unless otherwise specified. Paragraph (b) of this section specifies baseline fees that apply for certificates received in 2020. See paragraph (c) of this section for provisions describing how we calculate fees for 2021 and later years.

(b) The following baseline fees apply for each application for certification:

(1) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for Independent Commercial Importers, the following fees apply in 2020 for motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines:

(2) A fee of $87,860 applies in 2020 for Independent Commercial Importers with respect to the following motor vehicles:

(i) Light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks.

(ii) Medium-duty passenger vehicles.

(iii) Complete heavy-duty highway vehicles.

(3) The following fees apply in 2020 for nonroad and stationary engines, vehicles, equipment, and components:

(c) We will calculate adjusted fees for 2021 and later years based on changes in the Consumer Price Index and the number of certificates. We will announce adjusted fees for a given year by March 31 of the preceding year.

(1) We will adjust the values specified in paragraph (b) of this section for years after 2020 as follows:

(i) Use the following equation for certification related to evaporative emissions from nonroad and stationary engines when a separate fee applies for certification to evaporative emission standards:

(ii) Use the following equation for all other certificates:

(2) The fee for any year will remain at the previous year's amount until the value calculated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section differs by at least $50 from the amount specified for the previous year.

(d) Except as specified in ยง 1027.110(a) for motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines, we will use the following values to determine adjusted fees using the equation in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) The following values apply for operating costs and labor costs:
