
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1031 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM AIRCRAFT ENGINES
##### Subpart A - Scope and Applicability
###### ยง 1031.15 Exemptions.

Individual engines may be exempted from current standards as described in this section. Exempted engines must conform to regulatory conditions specified for an exemption in this part and other applicable regulations. Exempted engines are deemed to be "subject to" the standards of this part even though they are not required to comply with the otherwise applicable requirements. Engines exempted with respect to certain standards must comply with other standards as a condition of the exemption.

(a) Engines installed in new aircraft. Each person seeking relief from compliance with this part at the time of certification must submit an application for exemption to the FAA in accordance with the regulations of 14 CFR parts 11 and 34. The FAA will consult with the EPA on each exemption application request before the FAA takes action. Exemption requests under this paragraph (a) are effective only with FAA approval and EPA's written concurrence.

(b) Temporary exemptions based on flights for short durations at infrequent intervals. The emission standards of this part do not apply to engines that power aircraft operated in the United States for short durations at infrequent intervals. Exemption requests under this paragraph (b) are effective with FAA approval. Such operations are limited to:

(1) Flights of an aircraft for the purpose of export to a foreign country, including any flights essential to demonstrate the integrity of an aircraft prior to its flight to a point outside the United States.

(2) Flights to a base where repairs, alterations or maintenance are to be performed, or to a point of storage, and flights for the purpose of returning an aircraft to service.

(3) Official visits by representatives of foreign governments.

(4) Other flights the Secretary of Transportation determines to be for short durations at infrequent intervals. A request for such a determination shall be made before the flight takes place.
