
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1031 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM AIRCRAFT ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Measurement Procedures
###### § 1031.130 Derivative engines for emissions certification purposes.
####### Emissions similarity.

(c)(1) A proposed derivative engine's emissions are similar to the previously certificated engine's emissions if the type certificate applicant demonstrates that the engine meets the applicable emission standards and differ from the previously certificated engine's emissions only within the following ranges:

(i) +/-3.0 g/kN for NO.

(ii) +/-1.0 g/kN for HC.

(iii) +/-5.0 g/kN for CO.

(iv) +/-2.0 SN for smoke number.

(v) The following values apply for nvPM:

(A) +/-200 µg/mif the characteristic level of maximum nvPMis below 1,000 µg/m.

(B) +/-20% of the characteristic level if the characteristic level for maximum nvPMis at or above 1,000 µg/m.

(vi) The following values apply for nvPM:

(A) 80 mg/kN if the characteristic level for nvPMemissions is below 400 mg/kN.

(B) +/-20% of the characteristic level if the characteristic level for nvPMemissions is greater than or equal to 400 mg/kN.

(vii) The following values apply for nvPM:

(A) 4 x 10particles/kN if the characteristic level for nvPMemissions is below 2 x 10particles/kN.

(B) +/-20% of the characteristic level if the characteristic level for nvPMemissions is greater than or equal to 2x10particles/kN.

(2) In unusual circumstances, the FAA may, for individual certification applications, adjust the ranges beyond those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to evaluate a proposed derivative engine, consistent with good engineering judgment.
