
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1031 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM AIRCRAFT ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Reporting and Recordkeeping
###### ยง 1031.150 Production reports.
####### 3

() Emissions Indices after correcting for system losses.

(iii) Weighted total values calculated from the tested LTO cycle modes for HC, CO, NO, CO, and nvPM mass and nvPM number. Include nvPM mass and nvPM number values with and without system loss correction.

(iv) The characteristic level for HC, CO, NO, smoke number, nvPM mass concentration, nvPM mass, and nvPM number.

(v) The following maximum values:

(A) Smoke number.

(B) nvPM mass concentration.

(C) nvPM mass Emission Index with and without system loss correction.

(D) nvPM number Emission Index with and without system loss correction.

(d) Identify the number of exempted or excepted engines with a date of manufacture during the calendar year, along with the engine model and sub-model names of each engine, the type of exemption or exception, and the use of each engine (for example, spare or new installation). For purposes of this paragraph (d), treat spare engine exceptions separate from other new engine exemptions.

(e) Include the following signed statement and endorsement by an authorized representative of your company: "We submit this report under 40 CFR 1031.150. All the information in this report is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge."

(f) Where information provided for the previous annual report remains valid and complete, you may report your production volumes and state that there are no changes, without resubmitting the other information specified in this section.
