
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.101 Exhaust emission standards.
####### Notch standards.

(e)(1) Exhaust emissions from locomotives may not exceed the notch standards specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, except as allowed in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, when measured using any test procedures under any test conditions.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, calculate the applicable notch standards for each pollutant for each notch from the certified notch emission rate as follows:

(3) Exhaust emissions that exceed the notch standards specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section are allowed only if one of the following is true:

(i) The same emission controls are applied during the test conditions causing the noncompliance as were applied during certification test conditions (and to the same degree).

(ii) The exceedance result from a design feature that was described (including its effect on emissions) in the approved application for certification, and is:

(A) Necessary for safety;

(B) Addresses infrequent regeneration of an aftertreatment device; or

(C) Otherwise allowed by this part.

(4) Since you are only required to test your locomotive at the highest emitting dynamic brake point, the notch caps that you calculate for the dynamic brake point that you test also apply for other dynamic brake points.

(5) No PM notch caps apply for locomotives certified to a PM standard or FEL of 0.05 g/bhp-hr or lower.

(6) For switch locomotives that are not subject to line-haul standards, ELHequals the deteriorated switch duty-cycle weighted brake-specific emission rate for pollutant i and std is the applicable switch cycle standard/FEL.
