
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.101 Exhaust emission standards.
####### Averaging, banking, and trading.

(d)You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program as described in subpart H of this part to comply with the NOand/or PM standards of this part. You may also use ABT to comply with the Tier 4 HC standards of this part as described in paragraph (j) of this section. Generating or using emission credits requires that you specify a family emission limit (FEL) for each pollutant you include in the ABT program for each engine family. These FELs serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. FELs may not be higher than the following limits:

(1) FELs for Tier 0 and Tier 1 locomotives originally manufactured before 2002 may have any value.

(2) FELs for Tier 1 locomotives originally manufactured 2002 through 2004 may not exceed 9.5 g/bhp-hr for NOemissions or 0.60 g/bhp-hr for PM emissions measured over the line-haul duty cycle. FELs for these locomotives may not exceed 14.4 g/bhp-hr for NOemissions or 0.72 g/bhp-hr for PM emissions measured over the switch duty cycle.

(3) FELs for Tier 2 and Tier 3 locomotives may not exceed the Tier 1 standards of this section.

(4) FELs for Tier 4 locomotives may not exceed the Tier 3 standards of this section.
