
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.101 Exhaust emission standards.
####### Fuels.

(f)The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for locomotives using the fuel type on which the locomotives in the engine family are designed to operate.

(1) You must meet the numerical emission standards for HC in this section based on the following types of hydrocarbon emissions for locomotives powered by the following fuels:

(i) Alcohol-fueled locomotives: THCE emissions for Tier 3 and earlier locomotives and NMHCE for Tier 4.

(ii) Gaseous-fueled locomotives: Nonmethane-nonethane emissions (NMNEHC). This includes dual-fuel and flexible-fuel locomotives that use a combination of a gaseous fuel and a nongaseous fuel.

(iii) Diesel-fueled and other locomotives: THC emissions for Tier 3 and earlier locomotives and NMHC for Tier 4. Note that manufacturers/remanufacturers may choose to not measure NMHC and assume that NMHC is equal to THC multiplied by 0.98 for diesel-fueled locomotives.

(2) You must certify your diesel-fueled locomotives to use the applicable grades of diesel fuel as follows:

(i) Certify your Tier 4 and later diesel-fueled locomotives for operation with only Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel (ULSD) fuel. Use ULSD as the test fuel for these locomotives. You may alternatively certify Tier 4 and later locomotives using Low Sulfur Diesel Fuel (LSD).

(ii) Certify your Tier 3 and earlier diesel-fueled locomotives for operation with only ULSD fuel if they include sulfur-sensitive technology and you demonstrate compliance using a ULSD test fuel.

(iii) Certify your Tier 3 and earlier diesel-fueled locomotives for operation with either ULSD fuel or LSD fuel if they do not include sulfur-sensitive technology or if you demonstrate compliance using an LSD test fuel (including commercial LSD fuel).

(iv) For Tier 1 and earlier diesel-fueled locomotives, if you demonstrate compliance using a ULSD test fuel, you must adjust the measured PM emissions upward by 0.01 g/bhp-hr to make them equivalent to tests with LSD. We will not apply this adjustment for our testing.
