
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.101 Exhaust emission standards.
####### Useful life.

(g)The emission standards and requirements in this subpart apply to the emissions from new locomotives for their useful life. The useful life is generally specified as MW-hrs and years, and ends when either of the values (MW-hrs or years) is exceeded or the locomotive is remanufactured.

(1) The minimum useful life in terms of MW-hrs is equal to the product of the rated horsepower multiplied by 7.50. The minimum useful life in terms of years is ten years. For locomotives originally manufactured before January 1, 2000 and not equipped with MW-hr meters, the minimum useful life is equal to 750,000 miles or ten years, whichever is reached first. See ยง 1033.140 for provisions related to rated power.

(2) You must specify a longer useful life if the locomotive or locomotive engine is designed to last longer than the applicable minimum useful life. Recommending a time to remanufacture that is longer than the minimum useful life is one indicator of a longer design life.

(3) Manufacturers/remanufacturers of locomotives with non-locomotive-specific engines (as defined in ยง 1033.901) may ask us (before certification) to allow a shorter useful life for an engine family containing only non-locomotive-specific engines. We may approve a shorter useful life, in MW-hrs of locomotive operation but not in years, if we determine that these locomotives will rarely operate longer than the shorter useful life. If engines identical to those in the engine family have already been produced and are in use, your demonstration must include documentation from such in-use engines. In other cases, your demonstration must include an engineering analysis of information equivalent to such in-use data, such as data from research engines or similar engine models that are already in production. Your demonstration must also include any overhaul interval that you recommend, any mechanical warranty that you offer for the engine or its components, and any relevant customer design specifications. Your demonstration may include any other relevant information.

(4) Remanufacturers of locomotive or locomotive engine configurations that have been previously certified under paragraph (g)(3) of this section to a useful life that is shorter than the value specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section may certify to that same shorter useful life value without request.

(5) In unusual circumstances, you may ask us to allow you to certify some locomotives in your engine family to a partial useful life. This allowance is limited to cases in which some or all of the locomotive's power assemblies have been operated previously such that the locomotive will need to be remanufactured prior to the end of the otherwise applicable useful life. Unless we specify otherwise, define the partial useful life based on the total MW-hrs since the last remanufacture to be consistent with other locomotives in the family. For example, this may apply for a previously uncertified locomotive that becomes "new" when it is imported, but that was remanufactured two years earlier (representing 25 percent of the normal useful life period). If such a locomotive could be brought into compliance with the applicable standards without being remanufactured, you may ask to include it in your engine family for the remaining 75 percent of its useful life period.
