
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.115 Other requirements.
####### Defeat devices.

(f)You may not equip your locomotives with a defeat device. A defeat device is an auxiliary emission control device (AECD) that reduces the effectiveness of emission controls under conditions that the locomotive may reasonably be expected to encounter during normal operation and use.

(1) This does not apply to AECDs you identify in your application for certification if any of the following is true:

(i) The conditions of concern were substantially included in the applicable duty cycle test procedures described in subpart F of this part.

(ii) You show your design is necessary to prevent locomotive damage or accidents.

(iii) The reduced effectiveness applies only to starting the locomotive.

(iv) The locomotive emissions when the AECD is functioning are at or below the notch caps of ยง 1033.101.

(2) This does not apply to AECDs related to hotel mode that conform to the specifications of this paragraph (f)(2). This provision is intended for AECDs that have the primary function of operating the engine at a different speed than would be done to generate the same propulsive power when not operating in hotel mode. Identify and describe these AECDs in your application for certification. We may allow the AECDs to modify engine calibrations where we determine that such modifications are environmentally beneficial or needed for proper engine function. You must obtain preliminary approval under ยง 1033.210 before incorporating such modifications. Otherwise, you must apply the same injection timing and intake air cooling strategies in hotel mode and non-hotel mode.
