
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.115 Other requirements.
####### Idle controls.

(g)All new locomotives must be equipped with automatic engine stop/start as described in this paragraph (g). All new locomotives must be designed to allow the engine(s) to be restarted at least six times per day without causing engine damage that would affect the expected interval between remanufacturing. Note that it is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) to circumvent the provisions of this paragraph (g).

(1) Except as allowed by paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the stop/start systems must shut off the main locomotive engine(s) after 30 minutes of idling (or less).

(2) Stop/start systems may restart or continue idling for the following reasons:

(i) To prevent engine damage such as to prevent the engine coolant from freezing.

(ii) To maintain air pressure for brakes or starter system, or to recharge the locomotive battery.

(iii) To perform necessary maintenance.

(iv) To otherwise comply with federal regulations.

(3) You may ask to use alternate stop/start systems that will achieve equivalent idle control.

(4) See ยง 1033.201 for provisions that allow you to obtain a separate certificate for idle controls.

(5) It is not considered circumvention to allow a locomotive to idle to heat or cool the cab, provided such heating or cooling is necessary.
