
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.130 Instructions for engine remanufacturing or engine installation.

(a) If you do not complete assembly of the new locomotive (such as selling a kit that allows someone else to remanufacture a locomotive under your certificate), give the assembler instructions for completing assembly consistent with the requirements of this part. Include all information necessary to ensure that the locomotive will be assembled in its certified configuration.

(b) Make sure these instructions have the following information:

(1) Include the heading: "Emission-related assembly instructions"

(2) Describe any instructions necessary to make sure the assembled locomotive will operate according to design specifications in your application for certification.

(3) Describe how to properly label the locomotive. This will generally include instructions to remove and destroy the previous Engine Emission Control Information label.

(4) State one of the following as applicable:

(i) "Failing to follow these instructions when remanufacturing a locomotive or locomotive engine violates federal law (40 CFR 1068.105(b)), and may subject you to fines or other penalties as described in the Clean Air Act."

(ii) "Failing to follow these instructions when installing this locomotive engine violates federal law (40 CFR 1068.105(b)), and may subject you to fines or other penalties as described in the Clean Air Act."

(c) You do not need installation instructions for locomotives you assemble.

(d) Provide instructions in writing or in an equivalent format. For example, you may post instructions on a publicly available Web site for downloading or printing. If you do not provide the instructions in writing, explain in your application for certification how you will ensure that each assembler is informed of the assembly requirements.

(e) Your emission-related assembly instructions may not include specifications for parts unrelated to emissions. For the basic mechanical parts listed in this paragraph (e), you may not specify a part manufacturer unless we determine that such a specification is necessary. You may include design specifications for such parts addressing the dimensions and material constraints as necessary. You may also specify a part number, as long you make it clear that alternate part suppliers may be used. This paragraph (e) covers the following parts or other parts we determine qualify as basic mechanical parts:

(1) Intake and exhaust valves.

(2) Intake and exhaust valve retainers.

(3) Intake and exhaust valve springs.

(4) Intake and exhaust valve rotators.

(5) Oil coolers.
