
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.135 Labeling.
####### Locomotive labels.

(b)(1) Locomotive labels meeting the specifications of paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be applied as follows:

(i) The manufacturer must apply a locomotive label at the point of original manufacture.

(ii) The remanufacturer must apply a locomotive label at the point of original remanufacture, unless the locomotive was labeled by the original manufacturer.

(iii) Any remanufacturer certifying a locomotive to an FEL or standard different from the previous FEL or standard to which the locomotive was previously certified must apply a locomotive label.

(2) The locomotive label must meet all of the following criteria:

(i) The label must be permanent and legible and affixed to the locomotive in a position in which it will remain readily visible. Attach it to a locomotive chassis part necessary for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement during the service life of the locomotive. You may not attach this label to the engine or to any equipment that is easily detached from the locomotive. Attach the label so that it cannot be removed without destroying or defacing the label. For Tier 0 and Tier 1 locomotives, the label may be made up of more than one piece, as long as all pieces are permanently attached to the locomotive.

(ii) The label must be lettered in the English language using a color that contrasts with the background of the label.

(iii) The label must include all the following information:

(A) The label heading: "ORIGINAL LOCOMOTIVE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION." Manufacturers/remanufacturers may add a subheading to distinguish this label from the engine label described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(B) Full corporate name and trademark of the manufacturer (or remanufacturer).

(C) The applicable engine family and configuration identification. In the case of locomotive labels applied by the manufacturer at the point of original manufacture, this will be the engine family and configuration identification of the certificate applicable to the freshly manufactured locomotive. In the case of locomotive labels applied by a remanufacturer during remanufacture, this will be the engine family and configuration identification of the certificate under which the remanufacture is being performed.

(D) Date of original manufacture of the locomotive, as defined in ยง 1033.901.

(E) The standards/FELs to which the locomotive was certified and the following statement: "THIS LOCOMOTIVE MUST COMPLY WITH THESE EMISSION LEVELS EACH TIME THAT IT IS REMANUFACTURED, EXCEPT AS ALLOWED BY 40 CFR 1033.750."

(3) Label diesel-fueled locomotives near the fuel inlet to identify the allowable fuels, consistent with ยง 1033.101. For example, Tier 4 locomotives with sulfur-sensitive technology (or that otherwise require ULSD for compliance) should be labeled "ULTRA LOW SULFUR DIESEL FUEL ONLY". You do not need to label Tier 3 and earlier locomotives certified for use with both LSD and ULSD.
