
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.135 Labeling.
####### Engine labels.

(c)(1) For engines not requiring aftertreatment devices, apply engine labels meeting the specifications of paragraph (c)(2) of this section once an engine has been assembled in its certified configuration. For engines that require aftertreatment devices, apply the label after the engine has been fully assembled, which may occur before installing the aftertreatment devices. These labels must be applied by:

(i) The manufacturer at the point of original manufacture; and

(ii) The remanufacturer at the point of each remanufacture (including the original remanufacture and subsequent remanufactures).

(2) The engine label must meet all of the following criteria:

(i) The label must be durable throughout the useful life of the engine, be legible and affixed to the engine in a position in which it will be readily visible after installation of the engine in the locomotive. Attach it to an engine part necessary for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement during the useful life of the locomotive. You may not attach this label to any equipment that is easily detached from the engine. Attach the label so it cannot be removed without destroying or defacing the label. The label may be made up of more than one piece, as long as all pieces are permanently attached to the same engine part.

(ii) The label must be lettered in the English language using a color that contrasts with the background of the label.

(iii) The label must include all the following information:

(A) The label heading: "ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION." Manufacturers/remanufacturers may add a subheading to distinguish this label from the locomotive label described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(B) Full corporate name and trademark of the manufacturer/remanufacturer.

(C) Engine family and configuration identification as specified in the certificate under which the locomotive is being manufactured or remanufactured.

(D) A prominent unconditional statement of compliance with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations which apply to locomotives, as applicable:
