
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1033.201 General requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity.

Certification is the process by which you demonstrate to us that your freshly manufactured or remanufactured locomotives will meet the applicable emission standards throughout their useful lives (explaining to us how you plan to manufacture or remanufacture locomotives, and providing test data showing that such locomotives will comply with all applicable emission standards). Anyone meeting the definition of manufacturer in § 1033.901 may apply for a certificate of conformity for freshly manufactured locomotives. Anyone meeting the definition of remanufacturer in § 1033.901 may apply for a certificate of conformity for remanufactured locomotives.

(a) You must send us a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each engine family. A certificate of conformity is valid for new production from the indicated effective date, until the end of the model year for which it is issued, which may not extend beyond December 31 of that year. No certificate will be issued after December 31 of the model year. You may amend your application for certification after the end of the model year in certain circumstances as described in §§ 1033.220 and 1033.225. You must renew your certification annually for any locomotives you continue to produce.

(b) The application must contain all the information required by this part and must not include false or incomplete statements or information (see § 1033.255).

(c) We may ask you to include less information than we specify in this subpart, as long as you maintain all the information required by § 1033.250.

(d) You must use good engineering judgment for all decisions related to your application (see 40 CFR 1068.5).

(e) An authorized representative of your company must approve and sign the application.

(f) See § 1033.255 for provisions describing how we will process your application.

(g) We may require you to deliver your test locomotives (including test engines, as applicable) to a facility we designate for our testing (see § 1033.235(c)). Alternatively, you may choose to deliver another engine/locomotive that is identical in all material respects to the test locomotive, or another engine/locomotive that we determine can appropriately serve as an emission-data locomotive for the engine family.

(h) By applying for a certificate of conformity, you are accepting responsibility for the in-use emission performance of all properly maintained and used locomotives covered by your certificate. This responsibility applies without regard to whether you physically manufacture or remanufacture the entire locomotive. If you do not physically manufacture or remanufacture the entire locomotive, you must take reasonable steps (including those specified by this part) to ensure that the locomotives produced under your certificate conform to the specifications of your application for certification. Note that this paragraph does not limit any liability under this part or the Clean Air Act for entities that do not obtain certificates. This paragraph also does not prohibit you from making contractual arrangements with noncertifiers related to recovering damages for noncompliance.

(i) The provisions of this subpart describe how to obtain a certificate that covers all standards and requirements. Manufacturer/remanufacturers may ask to obtain a certificate of conformity that does not cover the idle control requirements of § 1033.115 or one that only covers the idle control requirements of § 1033.115. Remanufacturers obtaining such partial certificates must include a statement in their installation instructions that two certificates and labels are required for a locomotive to be in a fully certified configuration. We may modify the certification requirements for certificates that will only cover idle control systems.
