
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1033.150 Interim provisions.
####### Producing switch locomotives using certified nonroad engines.

(e)You may use the provisions of this paragraph (e) to produce any number of freshly manufactured or refurbished switch locomotives in model years 2008 through 2017. Locomotives produced under this paragraph (e) are exempt from the standards and requirements of this part subject to the following provisions:

(1) All of the engines on the switch locomotive must be covered by a certificate of conformity issued under 40 CFR part 89 or 1039 for model year 2008 or later (or earlier model years if the same standards applied as in 2008). Engines over 750 hp certified to the Tier 4 standards for non-generator set engines are not eligible for this allowance after 2014.

(2) You must reasonably project that more of the engines will be sold and used for non-locomotive use than for use in locomotives.

(3) You may not generate or use locomotive credits under this part for these locomotives.

(4) Include the following statement on a permanent locomotive label: "THIS LOCOMOTIVE WAS CERTIFIED UNDER 40 CFR 1033.150(e). THE ENGINES USED IN THIS LOCOMOTIVE ARE SUBJECT TO REQUIREMENTS OF 40 CFR PARTS 1039 (or 89) AND 1068."

(5) The rebuilding requirements of 40 CFR part 1068 apply when remanufacturing engines used in these locomotives.
