
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1033.150 Interim provisions.
####### Optional interim Tier 4 compliance provisions for NO,emissions.

(g)For model years 2015 through 2022, manufacturers may choose to certify some or all of their Tier 4 line-haul engine families according to the optional compliance provisions of this paragraph (g). The following provisions apply to all locomotives in those families:

(1) The provisions of this paragraph (g) apply instead of the deterioration factor requirements of §§ 1033.240 and 1033.245 for NOemissions. You must certify that the locomotives in the engine family will conform to the requirements of this paragraph (g) for their full useful lives.

(2) The applicable NOemission standard for locomotives certified under this paragraph (g) is:

(i) 1.3 g/bhp-hr for locomotives that have accumulated less than 50 hours of operation.

(ii) 1.3 plus 0.6 g/bhp-hr for locomotives that have accumulated 50 hours or more of operation.

(3) The engine family may not generate NOemission credits.

(4) The design certification provisions of § 1033.240(c) do not apply for these locomotives for the next remanufacture.

(5) Manufacturers must comply with the production-line testing program in subpart D of this part for these engine families or the following optional program:

(i) You are not required to test locomotives in the family under subpart D of this part if you comply with the requirements of this paragraph (g)(5).

(ii) Test the locomotives as specified in subpart E of this part, with the following exceptions:

(A) The minimum test sample size is one percent of the number of locomotives in the family or five, whichever is less.

(B) The locomotives must be tested after they have accumulated 50 hours or more of operation but before they have reached 50 percent of their useful life.

(iii) The standards in this part for pollutants other than NOapply as specified for testing conducted under this optional program.

(6) The engine family may use NOemission credits to comply with this paragraph (g). However, a 1.5 g/bhp-hr NOFEL cap applies for engine families certified under this paragraph (g). The applicable standard for locomotives that have accumulated 50 hours or more of operation is the FEL plus 0.6 g/bhp-hr.

(7) The in-use NOadd-ons specified in paragraph (f) of this section do not apply for these locomotives.

(8) All other provisions of this part apply to such locomotives, except as specified otherwise in this paragraph (g).

(h)-(j) [Reserved]
