
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1033.240 Demonstrating compliance with exhaust emission standards.

(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the applicable numerical emission standards in ยง 1033.101 if all emission-data locomotives representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards.

(1) If you include your locomotive in the ABT program in subpart H of this part, your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply.

(2) If you do not include your remanufactured locomotive in the ABT program in subpart H of this part, but it was previously included in the ABT program in subpart H of this part, the previous FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply.

(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data locomotive representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard. Use the following steps to determine the deteriorated emission level for the test locomotive:

(1) Collect emission data using measurements with enough significant figures to calculate the cycle-weighted emission rate to at least one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply any applicable humidity corrections before weighting emissions.

(2) Apply the regeneration factors if applicable. At this point the emission rate is generally considered to be an official emission result.

(3) Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in ยง 1033.245, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. This adjusted value is the deteriorated emission level. Compare these emission levels from the emission-data locomotive with the applicable emission standards. In the case of NO+ NMHC standards, apply the deterioration factor to each pollutant and then add the results before rounding.

(4) The highest deteriorated emission levels for each pollutant are considered to be the certified emission levels.

(c) An owner/operator remanufacturing its locomotives to be identical to their previously certified configuration may certify by design without new emission test data. To do this, submit the application for certification described in ยง 1033.205, but instead of including test data, include a description of how you will ensure that your locomotives will be identical in all material respects to their previously certified condition. You may use reconditioned parts consistent with good engineering judgment. You have all of the liabilities and responsibilities of the certificate holder for locomotives you certify under this paragraph.
