
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1033.205 Applying for a certificate of conformity.

(a) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a complete application for each engine family for which you are requesting a certificate of conformity.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) You must update and correct your application to accurately reflect your production, as described in § 1033.225.

(d) Include the following information in your application:

(1) A description of the basic engine design including, but not limited to, the engine family specifications listed in § 1033.230. For freshly manufactured locomotives, a description of the basic locomotive design. For remanufactured locomotives, a description of the basic locomotive designs to which the remanufacture system will be applied. Include in your description, a list of distinguishable configurations to be included in the engine family. Note whether you are requesting a certificate that will or will not cover idle controls.

(2) An explanation of how the emission control system operates, including detailed descriptions of:

(i) All emission control system components.

(ii) Injection or ignition timing for each notch (i.e., degrees before or after top-dead-center), and any functional dependence of such timing on other operational parameters (e.g., engine coolant temperature).

(iii) Each auxiliary emission control device (AECD).

(iv) All fuel system components to be installed on any production or test locomotives.

(v) Diagnostics.

(3) A description of the test locomotive.

(4) A description of the test equipment and fuel used. Identify any special or alternate test procedures you used.

(5) A description of the operating cycle and the period of operation necessary to accumulate service hours on the test locomotive and stabilize emission levels. You may also include a Green Engine Factor that would adjust emissions from zero-hour engines to be equivalent to stabilized engines.

(6) A description of injection timing, fuel rate, and all other adjustable operating parameters, including production tolerances. For any operating parameters that do not qualify as adjustable parameters, include a description supporting your conclusion (see 40 CFR 1068.50(c)). Include the following in your description of each adjustable parameter:

(i) For practically adjustable operating parameters, include the nominal or recommended setting, the intended practically adjustable range, the limits or stops used to limit adjustable ranges, and production tolerances of the limits or stops used to establish each practically adjustable range. State that the physical limits, stops or other means of limiting adjustment, are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended practically adjustable ranges and provide information to support this statement.

(ii) For programmable operating parameters, state that you have restricted access to electronic controls to prevent parameter adjustments on in-use engines that would allow operation outside the practically adjustable range. Describe how your engines are designed to prevent unauthorized adjustments.

(7) Projected U.S. production information for each configuration. If you are projecting substantially different sales of a configuration than you had previously, we may require you to explain why you are projecting the change.

(8)(i) All test data you obtained for each test engine or locomotive. As described in § 1033.235, we may allow you to demonstrate compliance based on results from previous emission tests, development tests, or other testing information. Include data for NOx, PM, HC, CO, and CO.

(ii) Report measured CO, NO, and CHas described in § 1033.235. Small manufacturers/remanufacturers may omit reporting NO and CH.

(9) The intended deterioration factors for the engine family, in accordance with § 1033.245. If the deterioration factors for the engine family were developed using procedures that we have not previously approved, you should request preliminary approval under § 1033.210.

(10) The intended useful life period for the engine family, in accordance with § 1033.101(g). If the useful life for the engine family was determined using procedures that we have not previously approved, you should request preliminary approval under § 1033.210.

(11) Copies of your proposed emission control label(s), maintenance instructions, and installation instructions (where applicable).

(12) An unconditional statement declaring that all locomotives included in the engine family comply with all requirements of this part and the Clean Air Act.

(e) If we request it, you must supply such additional information as may be required to evaluate the application.

(f) Provide the information to read, record, and interpret all the information broadcast by a locomotive's onboard computers and electronic control units. State that, upon request, you will give us any hardware, software, or tools we would need to do this. You may reference any appropriate publicly released standards that define conventions for these messages and parameters. Format your information consistent with publicly released standards.

(g) Include the information required by other subparts of this part. For example, include the information required by § 1033.725 if you participate in the ABT program.

(h) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or part 1068 of this chapter related to requests for exemptions.

(i) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.

(j) For imported locomotives, we may require you to describe your expected importation process.
