
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1033.235 Emission testing required for certification.

This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in ยง 1033.101.

(a) Select an emission-data locomotive (or engine) from each engine family for testing. It may be a low mileage locomotive, or a development engine (that is equivalent in design to the engines of the locomotives being certified), or another low hour engine. Use good engineering judgment to select the locomotive configuration that is most likely to exceed (or have emissions nearest to) an applicable emission standard or FEL. In making this selection, consider all factors expected to affect emission control performance and compliance with the standards, including emission levels of all exhaust constituents, especially NOand PM.

(b) Test your emission-data locomotives using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part. In the case of dual-fuel locomotives, measure emissions when operating with each type of fuel for which you intend to certify the locomotive. In the case of flexible-fuel locomotives, measure emissions when operating with the fuel mixture that best represents in-use operation or is most likely to have the highest NOemissions, though you may ask us instead to perform tests with both fuels separately if you can show that intermediate mixtures are not likely to occur in use.

(c) We may perform confirmatory testing by measuring emissions from any of your emission-data locomotives or other locomotives from the engine family.

(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the locomotive to a test facility we designate. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.

(2) If we measure emissions from one of your locomotives, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the locomotive. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.
