
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1033.235 Emission testing required for certification.
####### see

(3) Before we test one of your locomotives, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the adjustable ranges (ยง 1033.115(b)).

(4) Before we test one of your locomotives, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, this would apply for a parameter that is subject to production variability because it is adjustable during production, but is not considered an adjustable parameter (as defined in ยง 1033.901) because it is permanently sealed.

(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests if all the following are true:

(1) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year, items identified in ยง 1033.225(a), or other factors not related to emissions. We may waive this criterion for differences we determine not to be relevant.

(2) The emission-data locomotive from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data locomotive under paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) The data show that the emission-data locomotive would meet all the requirements that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification.

(e) You may ask to use emission data from a different engine family you have already certified instead of testing a locomotive in the second engine family if all the following are true:

(1) The same engine is used in both engine families.

(2) You demonstrate to us that the differences in the two families are sufficiently small that the locomotives in the untested family will meet the same applicable notch standards calculated from the test data.

(f) We may require you to test a second locomotive of the same or different configuration in addition to the locomotive tested under paragraph (b) of this section.

(g) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.

(h) The requirement to measure smoke emissions is waived for certification and production line testing, except where there is reason to believe your locomotives do not meet the applicable smoke standards.

(i) Measure COwith each test. Measure CHwith each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2012 model year. Also measure NO with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 for any engine family that depends on NOx aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small manufacturers/remanufacturers may omit measurement of NO and CH. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for CO, NO, and CH. Round the final values as follows:

(1) Round COto the nearest 1 g/bhp-hr.

(2) Round NO to the nearest 0.001 g/bhp-hr.

(3) Round CHto the nearest 0.001g/bhp-hr.
