
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1033.245 Deterioration factors.
####### Deterioration factor for crankcase emissions.

(5)If your engine vents crankcase emissions to the exhaust or to the atmosphere, you must account for crankcase emission deterioration, using good engineering judgment. You may use separate deterioration factors for crankcase emissions of each pollutant (either multiplicative or additive) or include the effects in combined deterioration factors that include exhaust and crankcase emissions together for each pollutant.

(c) Deterioration factors for smoke are always additive.

(d) If your locomotive vents crankcase emissions to the exhaust or to the atmosphere, you must account for crankcase emission deterioration, using good engineering judgment. You may use separate deterioration factors for crankcase emissions of each pollutant (either multiplicative or additive) or include the effects in combined deterioration factors that include exhaust and crankcase emissions together for each pollutant.

(e) Include the following information in your application for certification:

(1) If you determine your deterioration factors based on test data from a different engine family, explain why this is appropriate and include all the emission measurements on which you base the deterioration factor.

(2) If you determine your deterioration factors based on engineering analysis, explain why this is appropriate and include a statement that all data, analyses, evaluations, and other information you used are available for our review upon request.

(3) If you do testing to determine deterioration factors, describe the form and extent of service accumulation, including a rationale for selecting the service-accumulation period and the method you use to accumulate hours.

(f) You may alternatively determine and verify deterioration factors based on bench-aged aftertreatment as described in 40 CFR 1036.245 and 1036.246, with the following exceptions:

(1) The minimum required aging for locomotive engines as specified in 40 CFR 1036.245(c)(2) is 3,000 hours. Operate the engine for service accumulation using the same sequence of duty cycles that would apply for determining a deterioration factor under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.

(2) Perform verification testing as described in subpart F of this part rather than 40 CFR 1036.555. The provisions of 40 CFR 1036.246(d)(2) do not apply. Perform testing consistent with the original certification to determine whether tested locomotives meet the duty-cycle emission standards in ยง 1033.101.

(3) Apply infrequent regeneration adjustment factors as specified in ยง 1033.535 rather than 40 CFR 1036.580.
