
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart D - Manufacturer and Remanufacturer Production Line Testing and Audit Programs
###### ยง 1033.320 Calculation and reporting of test results.

(a) Calculate initial test results using the applicable test procedure specified in ยง 1033.315(a). Include applicable non-deterioration adjustments such as a Green Engine Factor or regeneration adjustment factor. Round the results to one more decimal place than the applicable emission standard.

(b) If you conduct multiple tests on any locomotives, calculate final test results by summing the initial test results derived in paragraph (a) of this section for each test locomotive, dividing by the number of tests conducted on the locomotive, and rounding to one more decimal place than the applicable emission standard. For catalyst-equipped locomotives, you may ask us to allow you to exclude an initial failed test if all of the following are true:

(1) The catalyst was in a green condition when tested initially.

(2) The locomotive met all emission standards when retested after degreening the catalyst.

(3) No additional emission-related maintenance or repair was performed between the initial failed test and the subsequent passing test.

(c) Calculate the final test results for each test locomotive by applying the appropriate deterioration factors, derived in the certification process for the engine family, to the final test results, and rounding to one more decimal place than the applicable emission standard.

(d) If, subsequent to an initial failure of a production line test, the average of the test results for the failed locomotive and the two additional locomotives tested, is greater than any applicable emission standard or FEL, the engine family is deemed to be in non-compliance with applicable emission standards, and you must notify us within ten working days of such noncompliance.

(e) Within 45 calendar days of the end of each quarter, you must send to the Designated Compliance Officer a report with the following information:

(1) The location and description of the emission test facilities which you used to conduct your testing.

(2) Total production and sample size for each engine family tested.

(3) The applicable standards against which each engine family was tested.

(4) For each test conducted, include all of the following:

(i) A description of the test locomotive, including:

(A) Configuration and engine family identification.

(B) Year, make, and build date.

(C) Engine identification number.

(D) Number of megawatt-hours (or miles if applicable) of service accumulated on locomotive prior to testing.

(E) Description of Green Engine Factor; how it is determined and how it is applied.

(ii) Location(s) where service accumulation was conducted and description of accumulation procedure and schedule, if applicable. If the locomotive was introduced into service between assembly and testing, you are only required to summarize the service accumulation, rather than identifying specific locations.

(iii) Test number, date, test procedure used, initial test results before and after rounding, and final test results for all production line emission tests conducted, whether valid or invalid, and the reason for invalidation of any test results, if applicable.

(iv) A complete description of any adjustment, modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, and testing which was performed on the test locomotive, has not been reported pursuant to any other paragraph of this subpart, and will not be performed on other production locomotives.

(v) Any other information we may ask you to add to your written report so we can determine whether your new engines conform with the requirements of this part.

(5) For each failed locomotive as defined in ยง 1033.330(a), a description of the remedy and test results for all retests as required by ยง 1033.340(g).

(6) The following signed statement and endorsement by an authorized representative of your company:
