
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart D - Manufacturer and Remanufacturer Production Line Testing and Audit Programs
###### ยง 1033.325 Maintenance of records; submittal of information.

(a) You must establish, maintain, and retain the following adequately organized and indexed test records:

(1) A description of all equipment used to test locomotives. The equipment requirements in subpart F of this part apply to tests performed under this subpart. Maintain these records for each test cell that can be used to perform emission testing under this subpart.

(2) Individual test records for each production line test or audit including:

(i) The date, time, and location of each test or audit.

(ii) The method by which the Green Engine Factor was calculated or the number of hours of service accumulated on the test locomotive when the test began and ended.

(iii) The names of all supervisory personnel involved in the conduct of the production line test or audit;

(iv) A record and description of any adjustment, repair, preparation or modification performed on test locomotives, giving the date, associated time, justification, name(s) of the authorizing personnel, and names of all supervisory personnel responsible for the conduct of the action.

(v) If applicable, the date the locomotive was shipped from the assembly plant, associated storage facility or port facility, and the date the locomotive was received at the testing facility.

(vi) A complete record of all emission tests or audits performed under this subpart (except tests performed directly by us), including all individual worksheets and/or other documentation relating to each test, or exact copies thereof, according to the record requirements specified in subpart F of this part and 40 CFR part 1065.

(vii) A brief description of any significant events during testing not otherwise described under this paragraph (a)(2), commencing with the test locomotive selection process and including such extraordinary events as engine damage during shipment.

(b) Keep all records required to be maintained under this subpart for a period of eight years after completion of all testing. Store these records in any format and on any media, as long as you can promptly provide to us organized, written records in English if we ask for them and all the information is retained.

(c) Send us the following information with regard to locomotive production if we ask for it:

(1) Projected production for each configuration within each engine family for which certification has been requested and/or approved.

(2) Number of locomotives, by configuration and assembly plant, scheduled for production.

(d) Nothing in this section limits our authority to require you to establish, maintain, keep or submit to us information not specified by this section. We may also ask you to send less information.

(e) Send all reports, submissions, notifications, and requests for approval made under this subpart to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved format.

(f) You must keep a copy of all reports submitted under this subpart.
