
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart D - Manufacturer and Remanufacturer Production Line Testing and Audit Programs
###### § 1033.340 Suspension and revocation of certificates of conformity.

(a) A certificate can be suspended for an individual locomotive as follows:

(1) The certificate of conformity is automatically suspended for any locomotive that fails a production line test pursuant to § 1033.330(a), effective from the time the testing of that locomotive is completed.

(2) The certificate of conformity is automatically suspended for any locomotive that fails an audit pursuant to § 1033.335(d), effective from the time that auditing of that locomotive is completed.

(b) A certificate can be suspended for an engine family as follows:

(1) We may suspend the certificate of conformity for an engine family that is in noncompliance pursuant to § 1033.330(b), thirty days after the engine family is deemed to be in noncompliance.

(2) We may suspend the certificate of conformity for an engine family that is determined to have failed an audit pursuant to § 1033.335(f). This suspension will not occur before thirty days after the engine family is deemed to be in noncompliance.

(c) If we suspend your certificate of conformity for an engine family, the suspension may apply to all facilities producing engines from an engine family, even if you find noncompliant engines only at one facility.

(d) We may revoke a certificate of conformity for any engine family in whole or in part if:

(1) You fail to comply with any of the requirements of this subpart.

(2) You submit false or incomplete information in any report or information provided to us under this subpart.

(3) You render inaccurate any test data submitted under this subpart.

(4) An EPA enforcement officer is denied the opportunity to conduct activities authorized in this subpart.

(5) An EPA enforcement officer is unable to conduct authorized activities for any reason.

(e) We will notify you in writing of any suspension or revocation of a certificate of conformity in whole or in part; a suspension or revocation is effective upon receipt of such notification or thirty days from the time a locomotive or engine family is deemed to be in noncompliance under §§ 1033.320(d), 1033.330(a), 1033.330(b), or 1033.335(f) is made, whichever is earlier, except that the certificate is immediately suspended with respect to any failed locomotives as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) We may revoke a certificate of conformity for an engine family when the certificate has been suspended under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section if the remedy is one requiring a design change or changes to the locomotive, engine and/or emission control system as described in the application for certification of the affected engine family.

(g) Once a certificate has been suspended for a failed locomotive, as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, you must take all the following actions before the certificate is reinstated for that failed locomotive:

(1) Remedy the nonconformity.

(2) Demonstrate that the locomotive conforms to applicable standards or family emission limits by retesting, or reauditing if applicable, the locomotive in accordance with this part.

(3) Submit a written report to us after successful completion of testing (or auditing, if applicable) on the failed locomotive, which contains a description of the remedy and testing (or auditing) results for each locomotive in addition to other information that may be required by this part.

(h) Once a certificate for a failed engine family has been suspended pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, you must take the following actions before we will consider reinstating the certificate:

(1) Submit a written report to us identifying the reason for the noncompliance of the locomotives, describing the remedy, including a description of any quality control measures you will use to prevent future occurrences of the problem, and stating the date on which the remedies will be implemented.

(2) Demonstrate that the engine family for which the certificate of conformity has been suspended does in fact comply with the regulations of this part by testing (or auditing) locomotives selected from normal production runs of that engine family. Such testing (or auditing) must comply with the provisions of this subpart. If you elect to continue testing (or auditing) individual locomotives after suspension of a certificate, the certificate is reinstated for any locomotive actually determined to be in conformance with the applicable standards or family emission limits through testing (or auditing) in accordance with the applicable test procedures, provided that we have not revoked the certificate under paragraph (f) of this section.

(i) If the certificate has been revoked for an engine family, you must take the following actions before we will issue a certificate that would allow you to continue introduction into commerce of a modified version of that family:

(1) If we determine that the change(s) in locomotive design may have an effect on emission deterioration, we will notify you within five working days after receipt of the report in paragraph (h) of this section, whether subsequent testing/auditing under this subpart will be sufficient to evaluate the change(s) or whether additional testing (or auditing) will be required.

(2) After implementing the change or changes intended to remedy the nonconformity, you must demonstrate that the modified engine family does in fact conform with the regulations of this part by testing locomotives (or auditing for remanufactured locomotives) selected from normal production runs of that engine family. When both of these requirements are met, we will reissue the certificate or issue a new certificate. If this subsequent testing (or auditing) reveals failing data the revocation remains in effect.

(j) At any time subsequent to an initial suspension of a certificate of conformity for a test or audit locomotive pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, but not later than 30 days (or such other period as may we allow) after the notification our decision to suspend or revoke a certificate of conformity in whole or in part pursuant to this section, you may request a hearing as to whether the tests or audits have been properly conducted or any sampling methods have been properly applied. (See § 1033.920.)

(k) Any suspension of a certificate of conformity under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section will be made only after you have been offered an opportunity for a hearing conducted in accordance with § 1033.920. It will not apply to locomotives no longer in your possession.

(l) If we suspend, revoke, or void a certificate of conformity, and you believe that our decision was based on erroneous information, you may ask us to reconsider our decision before requesting a hearing. If you demonstrate to our satisfaction that our decision was based on erroneous information, we will reinstate the certificate.

(m) We may conditionally reinstate the certificate for that family so that you do not have to store non-test locomotives while conducting subsequent testing or auditing of the noncomplying family subject to the following condition: you must commit to recall all locomotives of that family produced from the time the certificate is conditionally reinstated if the family fails subsequent testing, or auditing if applicable, and must commit to remedy any nonconformity at no expense to the owner.
