
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1033.515 Discrete-mode steady-state emission tests of locomotives and locomotive engines.
####### Engines certified to a PM standard/FEL below 0.05 g/bhp-hr.

(2)(i) You may use separate PM filter samples for each test mode as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; however, we recommend that you do not. The low rate of sample filter loading will result in very long sampling times and the large number of filter samples may induce uncertainty stack-up that will lead to unacceptable PM measurement accuracy. Instead, we recommend that you measure PM emissions as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) You may use a single PM filter for sampling PM over all of the test modes of the locomotive test cycle as specified in this paragraph (d)(2). Vary the sample time to be proportional to the applicable line-haul or switch weighting factors specified in ยง 1033.530 for each mode. The minimum sampling time for each mode is 400 seconds multiplied by the weighting factor. For example, for a mode with a weighting factor of 0.030, the minimum sampling time is 12.0 seconds. PM sampling in each mode must be proportional to engine exhaust flow as specified in 40 CFR part 1065. Begin proportional sampling of PM emissions at the beginning of each test mode as is specified in paragraph (c) of this section. End the sampling period for each test mode so that sampling times are proportional to the weighting factors for the applicable duty cycles. If necessary, you may extend the time limit for each of the test modes beyond the sampling times in Table 1 to this section to increase the sampled mass of PM emissions or to account for proper weighting of the PM emission sample over the entire cycle, using good engineering judgment.

(e) This paragraph (e) describes how to test locomotive engines when not installed in a locomotive. Note that the test procedures for dynamometer engine testing of locomotive engines are intended to produce emission measurements that are the same as emission measurements produced during testing of complete locomotives using the same engine configuration. The following requirements apply for all engine tests:

(1) Specify a second-by-second set of engine speed and load points that are representative of in-use locomotive operation for each of the set-points of the locomotive test cycle described in Table 1 to this section, including transitions from one notch to the next. This is your reference cycle for validating your cycle. You may ignore points between the end of the sampling period for one mode and the point at which you change the notch setting to begin the next mode.

(2) Keep the temperature of the air entering the engine after any charge air cooling to within 5 &#xB0;C of the typical intake manifold air temperature when the engine is operated in the locomotive under similar ambient conditions.

(3) Proceed as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section for testing complete locomotives.
