
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1033.515 Discrete-mode steady-state emission tests of locomotives and locomotive engines.

This section describes how to test locomotives at each notch setting so that emissions can be weighted according to either the line-haul duty cycle or the switch duty cycle. The locomotive test cycle consists of a warm-up followed by a sequence of nominally steady-state discrete test modes, as described in Table 1 to this section. The test modes are steady-state with respect to operator demand, which is the notch setting for the locomotive. Engine speeds and loads are not necessarily steady-state.

(a) Follow the provisions of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart F for general pre-test procedures (including engine and sampling system pre-conditioning which is included as engine warm-up). You may operate the engine in any way you choose to warm it up prior to beginning the sample preconditioning specified in 40 CFR part 1065.

(b) Begin the test by operating the locomotive over the pre-test portion of the cycle specified in Table 1 to this section. For locomotives not equipped with catalysts, you may begin the test as soon as the engine reaches its lowest idle setting. For catalyst-equipped locomotives, you may begin the test in normal idle mode if the engine does not reach its lowest idle setting within 15 minutes. If you do start in normal idle, run the low idle mode after normal idle, then resume the specified mode sequence (without repeating the normal idle mode).

(c) Measure emissions during the rest of the test cycle.

(1) Each test mode begins when the operator demand to the locomotive or engine is set to the applicable notch setting.

(2) Start measuring gaseous emissions, power, and fuel consumption at the start of the test mode A and continue until the completion of test mode 8. You may zero and span analyzers between modes (or take other actions consistent with good engineering judgment).

(i) The sample period over which emissions for the mode are averaged generally begins when the operator demand is changed to start the test mode and ends within 5 seconds of the minimum sampling time for the test mode is reached. However, you need to shift the sampling period to account for sample system residence times. Follow the provisions of 40 CFR 1065.308 and 1065.309 to time align emission and work measurements.

(ii) The sample period is 300 seconds for all test modes except mode 8. The sample period for test mode 8 is 600 seconds.

(3) If gaseous emissions are sampled using a batch-sampling method, begin proportional sampling at the beginning of each sampling period and terminate sampling once the minimum time in each test mode is reached, +/-5 seconds.

(4) If applicable, begin the smoke test at the start of the test mode A. Continue collecting smoke data until the completion of test mode 8. You may perform smoke measurements independent of criteria pollutant measurements by repeating the test over the duty cycle. If you choose this option, the minimum time-in-notch is 3.0 minutes for duty cycles in which only smoke is measured. Refer to ยง 1033.101 to determine applicability of smoke testing and ยง 1033.525 for details on how to conduct a smoke test.

(5) Begin proportional sampling of PM emissions at the beginning of each sampling period and terminate sampling within +/-5 seconds of the specified time in each test mode. If the PM sample is not sufficiently large, take one of the following actions consistent with good engineering judgment:

(i) Extend the sampling period up to a maximum of 15 minutes.

(ii) Group the modes in the same manner as the test intervals of the ramped modal cycle and use three different dilution settings for the groups. Use one setting for both idle modes, one for dynamic brake through Notch 5, and one for Notch 6 through Notch 8. For each group, ensure that the mode with the highest exhaust flow (typically normal idle, Notch 5, and Notch 8) meets the criteria for minimum dilution ratio in 40 CFR part 1065.

(6) Proceed through each test mode in the order specified in Table 1 to this section until the locomotive test cycle is completed.

(7) At the end of each numbered test mode, you may continue to operate sampling and dilution systems to allow corrections for the sampling system's response time.

(8) Following the completion of Mode 8, conduct the post sampling procedures in ยง 1065.530. Note that cycle validation criteria do not apply to testing of complete locomotives.

(d) Use one of the following approaches for sampling PM emissions during discrete-mode steady-state testing:
