
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1033.530 Duty cycles and calculations.
####### Representative test cycles for freshly manufactured locomotives.

(g)As specified in this paragraph (g), manufacturers may be required to use an alternate test cycle for freshly manufactured Tier 3 and later locomotives.

(1) If you determine that you are adding design features that will make the expected average in-use duty cycle for any of your freshly manufactured locomotive engine families significantly different from the otherwise applicable test cycle (including weighting factors), you must notify us and recommend an alternate test cycle that represents the expected average in-use duty cycle. You should also obtain preliminary approval before you begin collecting data to support an alternate test cycle. We will specify whether to use the default duty cycle, your recommended cycle, or a different cycle, depending on which cycle we believe best represents expected in-use operation.

(2) The provisions of this paragraph (g) apply differently for different types of locomotives, as follows:

(i) For Tier 4 and later line-haul locomotives, use the cycle required by (g)(1) of this section to show compliance with the line-haul cycle standards.

(ii) For Tier 3 and later switch locomotives, use the cycle required by (g)(1) of this section to show compliance with the switch cycle standards.

(iii) For Tier 3 line-haul locomotives, if we specify an alternate cycle, use it to show compliance with the line-haul cycle standards. If you include the locomotives in the ABT program of subpart H of this part, calculate line-haul cycle credits (positive or negative) using the alternate cycle and the line-haul cycle standards. Your locomotive is deemed to also generate an equal amount of switch cycle credits.

(3) For all locomotives certified using an alternate cycle, include a description of the cycle in the owners manual such that the locomotive can be remanufactured using the same cycle.

(4) For example, if your freshly manufactured line-haul locomotives are equipped with load control features that modify how the locomotive will operate when it is in a consist, and such features will cause the locomotives to operate differently from the otherwise applicable line-haul cycle, we may require you to certify using an alternate cycle.

(5) See paragraph (h) of this section for cycle-changing design features that also result in energy savings.
