
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1033.530 Duty cycles and calculations.
####### Calculation adjustments for energy-saving design features.,See

(h)The provisions of this paragraph (h) apply for locomotives equipped with new energy-saving locomotive design features. They do not apply for features that only improve the engine's brake-specific fuel consumption. They also do not apply for features that were commonly incorporated in locomotives before 2008.paragraph (h)(6) of this section for provisions related to determining whether certain features are considered to have been commonly incorporated in locomotives before 2008.

(1) Manufacturers/remanufacturers choosing to adjust emissions under this paragraph (h) must do all of the following for certification:

(i) Describe the energy-saving features in your application for certification.

(ii) Describe in your installation instruction and/or maintenance instructions all steps necessary to utilize the energy-saving features.

(2) If your design feature will also affect the locomotives' duty cycle, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section.

(3) Calculate the energy savings as follows:

(i) Estimate the expected mean in-use fuel consumption rate (on a BTU per ton-mile basis) with and without the energy saving design feature, consistent with the specifications of paragraph (h)(4) of this section. The energy savings is the ratio of fuel consumed from a locomotive operating with the new feature to fuel consumed from a locomotive operating without the feature under identical conditions. Include an estimate of the 80 percent confidence interval for your estimate of the mean and other statistical parameters we specify.

(ii) Your estimate must be based on in-use operating data, consistent with good engineering judgment. Where we have previously certified your design feature under this paragraph (h), we may require you to update your analysis based on all new data that are available. You must obtain approval before you begin collecting operational data for this purpose.

(iii) We may allow you to consider the effects of your design feature separately for different route types, regions, or railroads. We may require that you certify these different locomotives in different engine families and may restrict their use to the specified applications.

(iv) Design your test plan so that the operation of the locomotives with and without is as similar as possible in all material aspects (other than the design feature being evaluated). Correct all data for any relevant differences, consistent with good engineering judgment.

(v) Do not include any brake-specific energy savings in your calculated values. If it is not possible to exclude such effects from your data gathering, you must correct for these effects, consistent with good engineering judgment.

(4) Calculate adjustment factors as described in this paragraph (h)(4). If the energy savings will apply broadly, calculate and apply the adjustment on a cycle-weighted basis. Otherwise, calculate and apply the adjustment separately for each notch. To apply the adjustment, multiply the emissions (either cycle-weighted or notch-specific, as applicable) by the adjustment. Use the lower bound of the 80 percent confidence interval of the estimate of the mean as your estimated energy savings rate. We may cap your energy savings rate for this paragraph (h)(4) at 80 percent of the estimate of the mean. Calculate the emission adjustment factors as:

(5) We may require you to collect and report data from locomotives we allow you to certify under this paragraph (h) and to recalculate the adjustment factor for future model years based on such data.

(6) Features that are considered to have not been commonly incorporated in locomotives before 2008 include but are not limited to those identified in this paragraph (h)(6).

(i) Electronically controlled pneumatic (ECP) brakes, computerized throttle management control, and advanced hybrid technology were not commonly incorporated in locomotives before 2008. Manufacturers may claim full credit for energy savings that result from applying these features to freshly manufactured and/or remanufactured locomotives.

(ii) Distributed power systems that use radio controls to optimize operation of locomotives in the middle and rear of a train were commonly incorporated in some but not all locomotives in 2008. Manufacturers may claim credit for incorporating these features into locomotives as follows:

(A) Manufacturers may claim prorated credit for incorporating distributed power systems in freshly manufactured locomotives. Multiply the energy saving rate by 0.50 when calculating the adjustment factor:

(B) Manufacturers may claim full credit for retrofitting distributed power systems in remanufactured locomotives.
