
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1033.601 General compliance provisions.
####### Multi-fuel locomotives.,i.e.,

(f)Subpart C of this part describes how to test and certify dual-fuel and flexible-fuel locomotives. Some multi-fuel locomotives may not fit either of those defined terms. For such locomotives, we will determine whether it is most appropriate to treat them as single-fuel locomotives, dual-fuel locomotives, or flexible-fuel locomotives based on the range of possible and expected fuel mixtures. For example, a locomotive might burn natural gas but initiate combustion with a pilot injection of diesel fuel. If the locomotive is designed to operate with a single fueling algorithm (fueling rates are fixed at a given engine speed and load condition), we would generally treat it as a single-fuel locomotive, In this context, the combination of diesel fuel and natural gas would be its own fuel type. If the locomotive is designed to also operate on diesel fuel alone, we would generally treat it as a dual-fuel locomotive. If the locomotive is designed to operate on varying mixtures of the two fuels, we would generally treat it as a flexible-fuel locomotive. To the extent that requirements vary for the different fuels or fuel mixtures, we may apply the more stringent requirements.
