
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### § 1033.610 Small railroad provisions.

In general, the provisions of this part apply for all locomotives, including those owned by Class II and Class III railroads. This section describes how these provisions apply for railroads meeting the definition of "small railroad" in § 1033.901. (The term "small railroad" excludes all Class II railroads and some Class III railroads, such as those owned by large parent companies.)

(a) Locomotives become subject to the provisions of this part when they become "new" as defined in § 1033.901. Under that definition, a locomotive is "new" when first assembled, and generally becomes "new" again when remanufactured. As an exception to this general concept, locomotives that are owned and operated by railroads meeting the definition of "small railroad" in § 1033.901 do not become "new" when remanufactured, unless they were previously certified to EPA emission standards. Certificate holders may require written confirmation from the owner/operator that the locomotive qualifies as a locomotive that is owned and operated by a small railroad. Such written confirmation to a certificate holder is deemed to also be a submission to EPA and is thus subject to the reporting requirements of 40 CFR 1068.101.

(b) The provisions of subpart I of this part apply to all owners and operators of locomotives subject to this part 1033. However, the regulations of that subpart specify some provisions that apply only for Class I freight railroads, and others that apply differently to Class I freight railroads and other railroads.

(c) We may exempt new locomotives that are owned or operated by small railroads from the prohibition against remanufacturing a locomotive without a certificate of conformity as specified in this paragraph (c). This exemption is only available in cases where no certified remanufacturing system is available for the locomotive. For example, it is possible that no remanufacturer will certify a system for very old locomotive models that comprise a tiny fraction of the fleet and that are remanufactured infrequently. We will grant the exemption in all cases in which no remanufacturing system has been certified for the applicable engine family and model year. We may also grant an exemption where we determine that a certified system is unavailable. We may consider the issue of excessive costs in determining the availability of certified systems. If we grant this exemption for a previously certified locomotive, you are required to return the locomotive to its previously certified configuration. Send your request for such exemptions to the Designated Compliance Officer.

(d) Non-Class I railroads that do not meet the definition of "small railroad" in § 1033.901 may ask that their remanufactured locomotives be excluded from the definition of "new" in § 1033.901 in cases where no certified remanufacturing system is available for the locomotive. We will grant the exemption in all cases in which no remanufacturing system has been certified for the applicable engine family and model year. If we grant this exemption for a previously certified locomotive, you are required to return the locomotive to its previously certified configuration. Send your request for such exemptions to the Designated Compliance Officer.
