
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1033.630 Staged-assembly and delegated assembly exemptions.
####### Delegated assembly.

(b)This paragraph (b) applies where the engine manufacturer/remanufacturer does not complete assembly of the locomotives and the engine is shipped after being manufactured or remanufactured (partially or completely). The provisions of this paragraph (b) apply differently depending on who holds the certificate of conformity and the state of the engine when it is shipped. You may request an exemption under this paragraph (b) in your application for certification, or in a separate submission. If you include your request in your application, your exemption is approved when we grant your certificate. A manufacturer/remanufacturer may request an exemption under 40 CFR 1068.261 instead of under this section.

(1) In cases where an engine has been assembled in its certified configuration, properly labeled, and will not require an aftertreatment device to be attached when installed in the locomotive, no exemption is needed to ship the engine. You do not need an exemption to ship engines without specific components if they are not emission-related components identified in appendix A of 40 CFR part 1068.

(2) In cases where an engine has been properly labeled by the certificate holder and assembled in its certified configuration except that it does not yet have a required aftertreatment device, an exemption is required to ship the engine. You may ask for this exemption if you do all of the following:

(i) You note on the Engine Emission Control Information label that the locomotive must include the aftertreatment device to be covered by the certificate.

(ii) You make clear in your emission-related installation instructions that installation of the aftertreatment device is required for the locomotive to be covered by the certificate.

(3) In cases where an engine will be shipped to the certificate holder in an uncertified configuration, an exemption is required to ship the engine. You may ask for this exemption under 40 CFR 1068.262.
