
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1033.645 Non-OEM component certification program.
####### Approval.

(b)To obtain approval, submit your request to the Designated Compliance Officer.

(1) Include all of the following in your request:

(i) A description of the component(s) for which you are requesting approval.

(ii) A list of all engine/locomotive models and engine families for which your component would be used. You may exclude models that are not subject to our standards or will otherwise not be remanufactured under a certificate of conformity.

(iii) A copy of the maintenance instructions for engines using your component. You may reference the other certificate holder's maintenance instructions in your instructions. For example, your instructions may specify to follow the other certificate holder's instructions in general, but list one or more exceptions to address the specific maintenance needs of your component.

(iv) An engineering analysis (including test data in some cases) demonstrating to us that your component will not cause emissions to increase. The analysis must address both low-hour and end-of-useful life emissions. The amount of information required for this analysis is less than is required to obtain a certificate of conformity under subpart C of this part and will vary depending on the type of component being certified.

(v) The following statement signed by an authorized representative of your company: We submit this request under 40 CFR 1033.645. All the information in this report is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I know of the penalties for violating the Clean Air Act and the regulations. (Authorized Company Representative)

(2) If we determine that there is reasonable technical basis to believe that your component is sufficiently equivalent that it will not increase emissions, we will approve your request and you will be a certificate holder for your components with respect to actual emissions performance for all locomotives that use those components (in accordance with this section).
