
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1033.655 Special provisions for certain Tier 0/Tier 1 locomotives.

(a) The provisions of this section apply only for the following locomotives (and locomotives in the same engine families as these locomotives):

(1) Locomotives listed in Table 1 of this section originally manufactured 1986-1994 by General Electric Company that have never been equipped with separate loop aftercooling. The section also applies for the equivalent passenger locomotives.

(2) SD70MAC and SD70IAC locomotives originally manufactured 1996-2000 by EMD.

(b) Any certifying remanufacturer may request relief for the locomotives covered by this section.

(c) You may ask us to allow these locomotives to exceed otherwise applicable line-haul cycle NOstandard for high ambient temperatures and/or altitude because of limitations of the cooling system. However, the NOemissions may exceed the otherwise applicable standard only to the extent necessary. Relief is limited to the following conditions:

(1) For General Electric locomotives, you may ask for relief for ambient temperatures above 23 &#xB0;C and/or barometric pressure below 97.5 kPa (28.8 in. Hg). NOemissions may not exceed 9.5 g/bhp-hr over the line-haul cycle for any temperatures up to 105 &#xB0;F and any altitude up to 7000 feet above sea level.

(2) For EMD locomotives, you may ask for relief for ambient temperatures above 30 &#xB0;C and/or barometric pressure below 97.5 kPa (28.8 in. Hg). NOemissions may not exceed 8.0 g/bhp-hr over the line-haul cycle for any temperatures up to 105 &#xB0;F and any altitude up to 7000 feet above sea level.

(d) All other standards and requirements in this part apply as specified.

(e) To request this relief, submit to the Designated Compliance Officer along with your application for certification an engineering analysis showing how your emission controls operate for the following conditions:

(1) Temperatures 23-40 &#xB0;C at any altitude up to 7000 feet above sea level.

(2) Altitudes 1000-7000 feet above sea level for any temperature from 15-40 &#xB0;C.
