
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### ยง 1033.705 Calculating emission credits.

The provisions of this section apply separately for calculating emission credits for NOor PM.

(a) Calculate positive emission credits for an engine family that has an FEL below the otherwise applicable emission standard. Calculate negative emission credits for an engine family that has an FEL above the otherwise applicable emission standard. Do not round until the end of year report.

(b) For each participating engine family, calculate positive or negative emission credits relative to the otherwise applicable emission standard. For the end of year report, round the sum of emission credits to the nearest one hundredth of a megagram (0.01 Mg). Round your end of year emission credit balance to the nearest megagram (Mg). Use consistent units throughout the calculation. When useful life is expressed in terms of megawatt-hrs, calculate credits for each engine family from the following equation:

(c) When useful life is expressed in terms of miles, calculate the useful life in terms of megawatt-hours (UL) by dividing the useful life in miles by 100,000, and multiplying by the sales-weighted average rated power of the engine family. For example, if your useful life is 800,000 miles for a family with an average rated power of 3,500 hp, then your equivalent MW-hr useful life would be 28,000 MW-hrs. Credits are calculated using this UL value in the equations of paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) The proration factor is an estimate of the fraction of a locomotive's service life that remains as a function of age. The proration factor is 1.00 for freshly manufactured locomotives.

(1) The locomotive's age is the length of time in years from the date of original manufacture to the date at which the remanufacture (for which credits are being calculated) is completed, rounded to the next higher year.

(2) The proration factors for line-haul locomotives ages 1 through 20 are specified in Table 1 to this section. For line-haul locomotives more than 20 years old, use the proration factor for 20 year old locomotives. The proration factors for switch locomotives ages 1 through 40 are specified in Table 2 to this section. For switch locomotives more than 40 years old, use the proration factor for 40 year old locomotives.

(3) For repower engines, the proration factor is based on the age of the locomotive chassis, not the age of the engine, except for remanufactured locomotives that qualify as refurbished. The minimum proration factor for remanufactured locomotives that meet the definition of refurbished but not freshly manufactured is 0.60. (The proration factor is 1.00 for all locomotives that meet the definition of freshly manufactured.)

(e) In your application for certification, base your showing of compliance on projected production volumes for locomotives that will be placed into service in the United States. As described in ยง 1033.730, compliance with the requirements of this subpart is determined at the end of the model year based on actual production volumes for locomotives that will be placed into service in the United States. Do not include any of the following locomotives to calculate emission credits:

(1) Locomotives permanently exempted under subpart G of this part or under 40 CFR part 1068.

(2) Exported locomotives. You may ask to include locomotives sold to Mexican or Canadian railroads if they will likely operate within the United States and you include all such locomotives (both credit using and credit generating locomotives).

(3) Locomotives not subject to the requirements of this part, such as those excluded under ยง 1033.5.

(4) Any other locomotives, where we indicate elsewhere in this part 1033 that they are not to be included in the calculations of this subpart.
