
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### ยง 1033.740 Credit restrictions.
####### Single cycle locomotives.

(c)As specified in ยง 1033.101, Tier 0 switch locomotives, Tier 3 and later switch locomotives, and Tier 4 and later line-haul locomotives are not subject to both switch cycle and line-haul cycle standards.

(1) When using credits generated by locomotives covered by paragraph (b) of this section for single cycle locomotives covered by this paragraph (c), you must use both switch and line-haul credits as described in this paragraph (c)(1).

(i) For locomotives subject only to switch cycle standards, calculate the negative switch credits for the credit using locomotive as specified in ยง 1033.705. Such locomotives also generate an equal number of negative line-haul cycle credits (in Mg).

(ii) For locomotives subject only to line-haul cycle standards, calculate the negative line-haul credits for the credit using locomotive as specified in ยง 1033.705. Such locomotives also generate an equal number of negative switch cycle credits (in Mg).

(2) Credits generated by Tier 0, Tier 3, or Tier 4 switch locomotives may be used to show compliance with any switch cycle or line-haul cycle standards.

(3) Credits generated by any line-haul locomotives may not be used by Tier 3 or later switch locomotives.
