
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart I - Requirements for Owners and Operators
###### ยง 1033.810 In-use testing program.
####### Option 1.

(1)To the extent possible, select locomotives from each manufacturer and remanufacturer, and from each tier level (e.g., Tier 0, Tier 1 and Tier 2) in proportion to their numbers in the your fleet. Exclude locomotives tested during the previous year. If possible, select locomotives that have been operated for at least 100 percent of their useful lives. Where there are multiple locomotives meeting the requirements of this paragraph (c)(1), randomly select the locomotives to be tested from among those locomotives. If the number of certified locomotives that have been operated for at least 100 percent of their useful lives is not large enough to fulfill the testing requirement, test locomotives still within their useful lives as follows:

(i) Test locomotives in your fleet that are nearest to the end of their useful lives. You may identify such locomotives as a range of values representing the fraction of the useful life already used up for the locomotives.

(ii) For example, you may determine that 20 percent of your fleet has been operated for at least 75 percent of their useful lives. In such a case, select locomotives for testing that have been operated for at least 75 percent of their useful lives.
