
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart I - Requirements for Owners and Operators
###### § 1033.805 Remanufacturing requirements.

(a) See the definition of "remanufacture" in § 1033.901 to determine if you are remanufacturing your locomotive or engine. (Replacing power assemblies one at a time may qualify as remanufacturing, depending on the interval between replacement.)

(b) See the definition of "new" in § 1033.901 to determine if remanufacturing your locomotive makes it subject to the requirements of this part. If the locomotive is considered to be new, it is subject to the certification requirements of this part, unless it is exempt under subpart G of this part. The standards to which your locomotive is subject will depend on factors such as the following:

(1) Its date of original manufacture.

(2) The FEL to which it was previously certified, which is listed on the "Locomotive Emission Control Information" label.

(3) Its power rating (whether it is above or below 2300 hp).

(4) The calendar year in which it is being remanufactured.

(c) You may comply with the certification requirements of this part for your remanufactured locomotive by either obtaining your own certificate of conformity as specified in subpart C of this part or by having a certifying remanufacturer include your locomotive under its certificate of conformity. In either case, your remanufactured locomotive must be covered by a certificate before it is reintroduced into service.

(d) If you do not obtain your own certificate of conformity from EPA, contact a certifying remanufacturer to have your locomotive included under its certificate of conformity. Confirm with the certificate holder that your locomotive's model, date of original manufacture, previous FEL, and power rating allow it to be covered by the certificate. You must do all of the following:

(1) Comply with the certificate holder's emission-related installation instructions, which should include the following:

(i) A description of how to assemble and adjust the locomotive so that it will operate according to design specifications in the certificate. See paragraph (e) of this section for requirements related to the parts you must use.

(ii) Instructions to remove the Engine Emission Control Information label and replace it with the certificate holder's new label.

(2) Provide to the certificate holder the information it identifies as necessary to comply with the requirements of this part. For example, the certificate holder may require you to provide the information specified by § 1033.735.

(e) For parts unrelated to emissions and emission-related parts not addressed by the certificate holder in the emission-related installation instructions, you may use parts from any source. For emission-related parts listed by the certificate holder in the emission-related installation instructions, you must either use the specified parts or parts certified under § 1033.645 for remanufacturing. If you believe that the certificate holder has included as emission-related parts, parts that are actually unrelated to emissions, you may ask us to exclude such parts from the emission-related installation instructions.

(f) Failure to comply with this section is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).
