
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart I - Requirements for Owners and Operators
###### ยง 1033.810 In-use testing program.
####### Reporting requirements.

(d)Report all testing done in compliance with the provisions of this section to us within 45 calendar days after the end of each calendar year. At a minimum, include the following:

(1) Your full corporate name and address.

(2) For each locomotive tested, all the following:

(i) Corporate name of the manufacturer and last remanufacturer(s) of the locomotive (including both certificate holder and installer, where different), and the corporate name of the manufacturer or last remanufacturer(s) of the engine if different than that of the manufacturer/remanufacturer(s) of the locomotive.

(ii) Year (and month if known) of original manufacture of the locomotive and the engine, and the manufacturer's model designation of the locomotive and manufacturer's model designation of the engine, and the locomotive identification number.

(iii) Year (and month if known) that the engine last underwent remanufacture, the engine remanufacturer's designation that reflects (or most closely reflects) the engine after the last remanufacture, and the engine family identification.

(iv) The number of MW-hrs and miles (where available) the locomotive has been operated since its last remanufacture.

(v) The emission test results for all measured pollutants.

(e) You do not have to submit a report for any year in which you performed no emission testing under this section.

(f) You may ask us to allow you to submit equivalent emission data collected for other purposes instead of some or all of the test data required by this section. If we allow it in advance, you may report emission data collected using other testing or sampling procedures instead of some or all of the data specified by this section.

(g) Submit all reports to the Designated Compliance Officer.

(h) Failure to comply fully with this section is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2).
