
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1033 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM LOCOMOTIVES
##### Subpart J - Definitions and Other Reference Information
###### ยง 1033.901 Definitions.
####### New,

when relating to a locomotive or locomotive engine, has the meaning given in paragraph (1) of this definition, except as specified in paragraph (2) of this definition:

(1) A locomotive or engine is new if its equitable or legal title has never been transferred to an ultimate purchaser. Where the equitable or legal title to a locomotive or engine is not transferred prior to its being placed into service, the locomotive or engine ceases to be new when it is placed into service. A locomotive or engine also becomes new if it is remanufactured or refurbished (as defined in this section). A remanufactured locomotive or engine ceases to be new when placed back into service. With respect to imported locomotives or locomotive engines, the term "new locomotive" or "new locomotive engine" also means a locomotive or locomotive engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity under this part or 40 CFR part 92 at the time of importation, and that was manufactured or remanufactured after January 1, 2000, which would have been applicable to such locomotive or engine had it been manufactured or remanufactured for importation into the United States. Note that replacing an engine in one locomotive with an unremanufactured used engine from a different locomotive does not make a locomotive new.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this definition do not apply for the following cases:

(i) Locomotives and engines that were originally manufactured before January 1, 1973 are not considered to become new when remanufactured unless they have been upgraded (as defined in this section). The provisions of paragraph (1) of this definition apply for locomotives that have been upgraded.

(ii) Locomotives that are owned and operated by a small railroad and that have never been certified (i.e., manufactured or remanufactured into a certified configuration) are not considered to become new when remanufactured. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this definition apply for locomotives that have previously been remanufactured into a certified configuration.

(iii) Locomotives originally certified under ยง 1033.150(e) do not become new when remanufactured, except as specified in ยง 1033.615.

(iv) Locomotives that operate only on non-standard gauge rails do not become new when remanufactured if no certified remanufacturing system is available for them.
