
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1036.15 Other applicable regulations.

(a) Parts 85 and 86 of this chapter describe additional provisions that apply to engines that are subject to this part. See ยง 1036.601.

(b) Part 1037 of this chapter describes requirements for controlling evaporative and refueling emissions and greenhouse gas emissions from heavy-duty vehicles, whether or not they use engines certified under this part.

(c) Part 1065 of this chapter describes procedures and equipment specifications for testing engines to measure exhaust emissions. Subpart F of this part describes how to apply the provisions of part 1065 of this chapter to determine whether engines meet the exhaust emission standards in this part.

(d) The requirements and prohibitions of part 1068 of this chapter apply as specified in ยง 1036.601 to everyone, including anyone who manufactures, imports, installs, owns, operates, or rebuilds any of the engines subject to this part, or vehicles containing these engines. See ยง 1036.601 to determine how to apply the part 1068 regulations for heavy-duty engines. The issues addressed by these provisions include these seven areas:

(1) Prohibited acts and penalties for engine manufacturers, vehicle manufacturers, and others.

(2) Rebuilding and other aftermarket changes.

(3) Exclusions and exemptions for certain engines.

(4) Importing engines.

(5) Selective enforcement audits of your production.

(6) Recall.

(7) Procedures for hearings.

(e) Other parts of this chapter apply if referenced in this part.
