
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart A - Overview and Applicability
###### ยง 1036.5 Excluded engines.

(a) The provisions of this part do not apply to engines used in medium-duty passenger vehicles or other heavy-duty vehicles that are subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 86, subpart S, except as specified in 40 CFR part 86, subpart S, and ยง 1036.150(j). For example, this exclusion applies for engines used in vehicles certified to the standards of 40 CFR 86.1818 and 86.1819.

(b) An engine installed in a heavy-duty vehicle that is not used to propel the vehicle is not a heavy-duty engine. The provisions of this part therefore do not apply to these engines. Note that engines used to indirectly propel the vehicle (such as electrical generator engines that provide power to batteries for propulsion) are subject to this part. See 40 CFR part 1039, 1048, or 1054 for other requirements that apply for these auxiliary engines. See 40 CFR part 1037 for requirements that may apply for vehicles using these engines, such as the evaporative and refueling emission requirements of 40 CFR 1037.103.

(c) The provisions of this part do not apply to aircraft or aircraft engines. Standards apply separately to certain aircraft engines, as described in 40 CFR part 87.

(d) The provisions of this part do not apply to engines that are not internal combustion engines. For example, the provisions of this part generally do not apply to fuel cells. Note that gas turbine engines are internal combustion engines.

(e) The provisions of this part do not apply for model year 2013 and earlier heavy-duty engines unless they were:

(1) Voluntarily certified to this part.

(2) Installed in a glider vehicle subject to 40 CFR part 1037.
