
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1036.101 Overview of exhaust emission standards.
######## Emission standards.

(a)Emission standards apply for engines and optionally powertrains measured using the test procedures specified in subpart F of this part as follows:

(1) COemission standards in this paragraph (a)(1) apply based on testing as specified in subpart F of this part. The applicable test cycle for measuring COemissions differs depending on the engine family's primary intended service class and the extent to which the engines will be (or were designed to be) used in tractors. For Medium HDE and Heavy HDE certified as tractor engines, measure COemissions using the SET steady-state duty cycle specified in § 1036.510. This testing with the SET duty cycle is intended for engines designed to be used primarily in tractors and other line-haul applications. Note that the use of some SET-certified tractor engines in vocational applications does not affect your certification obligation under this paragraph (a)(1); see other provisions of this part and 40 CFR part 1037 for limits on using engines certified to only one cycle. For Medium HDE and Heavy HDE certified as both tractor and vocational engines, measure COemissions using the SET duty cycle specified in § 1036.510 and the FTP transient duty cycle specified in § 1036.512. Testing with both SET and FTP duty cycles is intended for engines that are designed for use in both tractor and vocational applications. For all other engines (including Spark-ignition HDE), measure COemissions using the FTP transient duty cycle specified in § 1036.512.

(i) The Phase 1 COstandard is 627 g/hp&#xB7;hr for all spark-ignition engines for model years 2016 through 2020. This standard continues to apply in later model years for all spark-ignition engines that are not Heavy HDE.

(ii) The following Phase 1 COstandards apply for compression-ignition engines (in g/hp&#xB7;hr):

(iii) The following Phase 2 COstandards apply for compression-ignition engines and all Heavy HDE (in g/hp&#xB7;hr):

(iv) You may certify spark-ignition engines to the compression-ignition standards for the appropriate model year under this paragraph (a). If you do this, those engines are treated as compression-ignition engines for all the provisions of this part.

(2) The CHemission standard is 0.10 g/hp&#xB7;hr when measured over the applicable FTP transient duty cycle specified in § 1036.512. This standard begins in model year 2014 for compression-ignition engines and in model year 2016 for spark-ignition engines. Note that this standard applies for all fuel types just like the other standards of this section.

(3) The NO emission standard is 0.10 g/hp&#xB7;hr when measured over the applicable FTP transient duty cycle specified in § 1036.512. This standard begins in model year 2014 for compression-ignition engines and in model year 2016 for spark-ignition engines.
