
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1036.110 Diagnostic controls.

Onboard diagnostic (OBD) systems must generally detect malfunctions in the emission control system, store trouble codes corresponding to detected malfunctions, and alert operators appropriately. Starting in model year 2027, new engines must have OBD systems as described in this section. You may optionally comply with any or all of the requirements of this section instead of 40 CFR 86.010-18 in earlier model years.

(a) Chassis-based OBD requirements apply instead of the requirements of this section for certain engines as follows:

(1) Heavy-duty engines intended to be installed in heavy duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR must meet the requirements in 40 CFR 86.1806. Note that 40 CFR 86.1806 allows for using later versions of specified OBD requirements from the California Air Resources Board, which includes meeting the 2019 heavy-duty OBD requirements adopted for California and updated emission thresholds as described in this section.

(2) Heavy-duty spark-ignition engines intended to be installed in heavy-duty vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR may meet the requirements in 40 CFR 86.1806 if the same engines are also installed in vehicles certified under 40 CFR part 86, subpart S, where both sets of vehicles share similar emission controls.

(b) Engines must comply with the 2019 heavy-duty OBD requirements adopted for California as described in this paragraph (b). California's 2019 heavy-duty OBD requirements are part of 13 CCR 1968.2, 1968.5, 1971.1, and 1971.5 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1036.810). We may approve your request to certify an OBD system meeting alternative specifications if you submit information as needed to demonstrate that it meets the intent of this section. For example, we may approve your request for a system that meets a later version of California's OBD requirements if you demonstrate that it meets the intent of this section; the demonstration must include identification of any approved deficiencies and your plans to resolve such deficiencies. To demonstrate that your engine meets the intent of this section, the OBD system meeting alternative specifications must address all the provisions described in this paragraph (b) and in paragraph (c) of this section. The following clarifications and exceptions apply for engines certified under this part:

(1) We may approve a small manufacturer's request to delay complying with the requirements of this section for up to three model years if that manufacturer has not certified those engines or other comparable engines in California for those model years.

(2) For engines not certified in California, references to vehicles meeting certain California Air Resources Board emission standards are understood to refer to the corresponding EPA emission standards for a given family, where applicable. Use good engineering judgment to correlate the specified standards with the EPA standards that apply under this part. You must describe in your application for certification how you will perform testing to demonstrate compliance with OBD requirements to represent all your engine families over five or fewer model years.

(3) Engines must comply with OBD requirements throughout the useful life as specified in ยง 1036.104(e).

(4) The purpose and applicability statements in 13 CCR 1971.1(a) and (b) do not apply.

(5) Emission thresholds apply as follows:

(i) Spark-ignition engines are subject to a NOthreshold of 0.35 g/hp&#xB7;hr for catalyst monitoring and 0.30 g/hp&#xB7;hr in all other cases. Spark-ignition engines are subject to a PM threshold of 0.015 g/hp&#xB7;hr. Thresholds apply for operation on the FTP and SET duty cycles.

(ii) Compression-ignition engines are subject to a NOthreshold of 0.40 g/hp&#xB7;hr and a PM threshold of 0.03 g/hp&#xB7;hr for operation on the FTP and SET duty cycles.

(iii) All engines are subject to HC and CO thresholds as specified in 13 CCR 1968.2 and 1971.1, except that the "applicable standards" for determining these thresholds are 0.14 g/hp&#xB7;hr for HC, 14.4 g/hp&#xB7;hr for CO from spark-ignition engines, and 15.5 g/hp&#xB7;hr for CO from compression-ignition engines.

(iv) Compression-ignition engines may be exempt from certain monitoring in 13 CCR 1968.2 and 1971.1 based on specified test-out criteria. To calculate these test-out criteria, the "applicable standards" are 0.20 g/hp&#xB7;hr for NO, 0.14 g/hp&#xB7;hr for HC, 0.01 g/hp&#xB7;hr for PM, 14.4 g/hp&#xB7;hr for CO from spark-ignition engines, and 15.5 g/hp&#xB7;hr for CO from compression-ignition engines.

(6) The provisions related to verification of in-use compliance in 13 CCR 1971.1(l) do not apply. The provisions related to manufacturer self-testing in 13 CCR 1971.5(c) also do not apply.

(7) The deficiency provisions described in paragraph (d) of this section apply instead of 13 CCR 1971.1(k).

(8) Include the additional data-stream signals in 13 CCR 1971.1(h)(4.2.3)(E), (F), and (G) as freeze-frame conditions as required in 13 CCR 1971.1(h)(4.3).

(9) Design compression-ignition engines to make the following additional data-stream signals available on demand with a generic scan tool according to 13 CCR 1971.1(h)(4.2), if the engine is so equipped:
