
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1036.110 Diagnostic controls.
####### Air-fuel enrichment parameters.

(i)Percent of time in enrichment, both for each trip (key-on to key-off) and as a cumulative lifetime value. Track values separately for enrichment based on throttle, engine protection, and catalyst protection. Include all time after engine warm-up when the engine is not operating at the air-fuel ratio designed for peak three-way catalyst efficiency. Peak efficiency typically involves closed-loop feedback control.

(ii) [Reserved]

(11) If you have an approved Executive order from the California Air Resources Board for a given engine family, we may rely on that Executive order to evaluate whether you meet federal OBD requirements for that same engine family or an equivalent engine family. Engine families are equivalent if they are identical in all aspects material to emission characteristics; for example, we would consider different inducement strategies and different warranties not to be material to emission characteristics relevant to these OBD testing requirements. EPA would count two equivalent engine families as one for the purposes of determining OBD demonstration testing requirements. Send us the following information:

(i) You must submit additional information as needed to demonstrate that you meet the requirements of this section that are not covered by the California Executive order.

(ii) Send us results from any testing you performed for certifying engine families (including equivalent engine families) with the California Air Resources Board, including the results of any testing performed under 13 CCR 1971.1(l) for verification of in-use compliance and 13 CCR 1971.5(c) for manufacturer self-testing within the deadlines set out in 13 CCR 1971.1.

(iii) We may require that you send us additional information if we need it to evaluate whether you meet the requirements of this paragraph (b)(11). This may involve sending us copies of documents you send to the California Air Resources Board.

(12) You may ask us to approve conditions for which the diagnostic system may disregard trouble codes, as described in 13 CCR 1971.1(g)(5.3)-(5.6).

(13) References to the California ARB Executive Officer are deemed to be the EPA Administrator.

(c) Design the diagnostic system to display the following information in the cab:

(1) For inducements specified in ยง 1036.111 and any other AECD that derates engine output related to SCR or DPF systems, indicate the fault code for the detected problem, a description of the fault code, and the current speed restriction. For inducement faults under ยง 1036.111, identify whether the fault condition is for DEF quantity, DEF quality, or tampering; for other faults, identify whether the fault condition is related to SCR or DPF systems. If there are additional derate stages, also indicate the next speed restriction and the time remaining until starting the next restriction. If the derate involves something other than restricting vehicle speed, such as a torque derate, adjust the information to correctly identify any current and pending restrictions.

(2) Identify on demand the total number of diesel particulate filter regeneration events that have taken place since installing the current particulate filter.

(3) Identify on demand the historical and current rate of DEF consumption, such as gallons of DEF consumed per mile or gallons of DEF consumed per gallon of diesel fuel consumed. Design the system to allow the operator to reset the current rate of DEF consumption.

(d) You may ask us to accept as compliant an engine that does not fully meet specific requirements under this section. The following provisions apply regarding OBD system deficiencies:

(1) We will not approve a deficiency for gasoline-fueled or diesel-fueled engines if it involves the complete lack of a major diagnostic monitor, such as monitors related to exhaust aftertreatment devices, oxygen sensors, air-fuel ratio sensors, NOsensors, engine misfire, evaporative leaks, and diesel EGR (if applicable). We may approve such deficiencies for engines using other fuels if you demonstrate that the alternative fuel causes these monitors to be unreliable.

(2) We will approve a deficiency only if you show us that full compliance is infeasible or unreasonable considering any relevant factors, such as the technical feasibility of a given monitor, or the lead time and production cycles of vehicle designs and programmed computing upgrades.

(3) Our approval for a given deficiency applies only for a single model year, though you may continue to ask us to extend a deficiency approval in renewable one-year increments. We may approve an extension if you demonstrate an acceptable level of progress toward compliance and you show that the necessary hardware or software modifications would pose an unreasonable burden. We will approve a deficiency for more than three years only if you further demonstrate that you need the additional lead time to make substantial changes to engine hardware.

(4) We will not approve deficiencies retroactively.
