
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1036.111 Inducements related to SCR.
####### General provisions.

(a)The following terms and general provisions apply under this section:

(1) As described in ยง 1036.110, this section relies on terms and requirements specified for OBD systems by California ARB in 13 CCR 1968.2 and 1971.1 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1036.810).

(2) The provisions of this section apply differently based on an individual vehicle's speed history. A vehicle's speed category is based on the OBD system's recorded value for average speed for the preceding 30 hours of non-idle engine operation. The vehicle speed category applies at the point that the engine first detects a fault condition identified under paragraph (b) of this section and continues to apply until the fault condition is fully resolved as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. Non-idle engine operation includes all operating conditions except those that qualify as idle based on OBD system controls as specified in 13 CCR 1971.1(h)(5.4.10). Apply speed derates based on the following categories:

(3) Where engines derate power output as specified in this section, the derate must decrease vehicle speed by 1 mi/hr for every five minutes of engine operation until reaching the specified derate speed. This requirement applies at the onset of an inducement, at any transition to a different step of inducement, and for any derate that recurs under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
