
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1036.125 Maintenance instructions and allowable maintenance.
####### Owners manual.

(h)Include the following maintenance-related information in the owners manual, consistent with the requirements of this section:

(1) Clearly describe the scheduled maintenance steps, consistent with the provisions of this section, using nontechnical language as much as possible. Include a list of components for which you will cover scheduled replacement costs.

(2) Identify all maintenance you consider necessary for the engine to be considered properly maintained for purposes of making valid warranty claims. Describe what documentation you consider appropriate for making these demonstrations. Note that you may identify failure to repair critical emission-related components as improper maintenance if the repairs are related to an observed defect. Your maintenance instructions under this section may not require components or service identified by brand, trade, or corporate name. Also, do not directly or indirectly require that the engine be serviced by your franchised dealers or any other service establishments with which you have a commercial relationship. However, you may disregard these limitations on your maintenance requirements if you do one of the following things:

(i) Provide a component or service without charge under the purchase agreement.

(ii) Get us to waive this prohibition in the public's interest by convincing us the engine will work properly only with the identified component or service.

(3) Describe how the owner can access the OBD system to troubleshoot problems and find emission-related diagnostic information and codes stored in onboard monitoring systems as described in ยง 1036.110(b) and (c). These instructions must at a minimum include identification of the OBD communication protocol used, location and type of OBD connector, brief description of what OBD is (including type of information stored, what a MIL is, and explanation that some MILs may self-extinguish), and a note that generic scan tools can provide engine maintenance information.

(4) Describe the elements of the emission control system and provide an overview of how they function.

(5) Include one or more diagrams of the engine and its emission-related components with the following information:

(i) The flow path for intake air and exhaust gas.

(ii) The flow path of evaporative and refueling emissions for spark-ignition engines, and DEF for compression-ignition engines, as applicable.

(iii) The flow path of engine coolant if it is part of the emission control system described in the application for certification.

(iv) The identity, location, and arrangement of relevant sensors, DEF heater and other DEF delivery components, and other critical emission-related components. Terminology to identify components must be consistent with codes you use for the OBD system.
