
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1036.130 Installation instructions for vehicle manufacturers.

(a) If you sell an engine for someone else to install in a vehicle, give the engine installer instructions for installing it consistent with the requirements of this part. Include all information necessary to ensure that an engine will be installed in its certified configuration.

(b) Make sure these instructions have the following information:

(1) Include the heading: "Emission-related installation instructions".

(2) State: "Failing to follow these instructions when installing a certified engine in a heavy-duty motor vehicle violates federal law, subject to fines or other penalties as described in the Clean Air Act."

(3) Provide all instructions needed to properly install the exhaust system and any other components. Include any appropriate instructions for configuring the exhaust system in the vehicle to allow for collecting emission samples for in-use testing where that is practical.

(4) Describe any necessary steps for installing any diagnostic system required under § 1036.110.

(5) Describe how your certification is limited for any type of application. For example, if you certify Heavy HDE to the COstandards using only transient FTP testing, you must make clear that the engine may not be installed in tractors.

(6) Describe any other instructions to make sure the installed engine will operate according to design specifications in your application for certification. This may include, for example, instructions for installing aftertreatment devices when installing the engines.

(7) Give the following instructions if you do not ship diesel exhaust fluid tanks with your engines:

(i) Specify that vehicle manufacturers must install diesel exhaust fluid tanks meeting the specifications of § 1036.115(i).

(ii) Describe how vehicle manufacturers must install diesel exhaust fluid tanks with sensors as needed to meet the requirements of §§ 1036.110 and 1036.111.

(8) State: "If you install the engine in a way that makes the engine's emission control information label hard to read during normal engine maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the vehicle, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105."

(9) Describe how vehicle manufacturers need to apply stickers to qualifying vehicles as described in § 1036.136 if you certify engines to the Clean Idle NOstandard of § 1036.104(b).

(c) Give the vehicle manufacturer fuel map results as described in § 1036.505(b).

(d) You do not need installation instructions for engines that you install in your own vehicles.

(e) Provide instructions in writing or in an equivalent format. For example, you may post instructions on a publicly available website for downloading or printing. If you do not provide the instructions in writing, explain in your application for certification how you will ensure that each installer is informed of the installation requirements.
