
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1036.136 Clean Idle sticker.

(a) Design and produce stickers showing that your engines meet the federal Clean Idle standard if you certify engines to the Clean Idle NOstandard of ยง 1036.104(b). The sticker must-

(1) Meet the requirements of 40 CFR 1068.45 for permanent labels. The preferred location for sticker placement is on the driver's side of the hood.

(2) Include one or both of your corporate name and trademark.

(3) Identify that the engine is qualified to meet the federal Clean Idle NOstandard.

(4) Include a serial number or other method to confirm that stickers have been properly applied to vehicles.

(b) The following provisions apply for placing Clean Idle stickers on vehicles with installed engines that have been certified to the NOstandard of ยง 1036.104(b):

(1) If you install engines in vehicles you produce, you must apply a sticker to each vehicle certified to the Clean Idle standard.

(2) If you ship engines for others to install in vehicles, include in your purchasing documentation the manufacturer's request for a specific number of labels corresponding to the number of engines ordered. Supply the vehicle manufacturer with exactly one sticker for each shipped engine certified to the Clean Idle standard. Prepare your emission-related installation instructions to ensure that vehicle manufacturers meet all application requirements. Keep the following records for at least five years:

(i) Written documentation of the vehicle manufacturer's request for stickers.

(ii) Tracking information for stickers you send and the date you sent them.

(c) The provisions in 40 CFR 1068.101 apply for the Clean Idle sticker in the same way that those provisions apply for emission control information labels.
