
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1036.135 Labeling.

(a) Assign each engine a unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp it on the engine in a legible way.

(b) At the time of manufacture, affix a permanent and legible label identifying each engine. The label must meet the requirements of 40 CFR 1068.45.

(c) The label must-

(1) Include the heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the branding provisions of 40 CFR 1068.45.

(3) Include EPA's standardized designation for the engine family.

(4) Identify the primary intended service class.

(5) State the engine's displacement (in liters); however, you may omit this from the label if all the engines in the engine family have the same per-cylinder displacement and total displacement.

(6) State the date of manufacture [DAY (optional), MONTH, and YEAR]; however, you may omit this from the label if you stamp, engrave, or otherwise permanently identify it elsewhere on the engine, in which case you must also describe in your application for certification where you will identify the date on the engine.

(7) State the NOFEL to which the engines are certified if applicable. Identify the Clean Idle standard if you certify the engine to the NOstandard of ยง 1036.104(b).

(8) State: "THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES."

(9) Identify any limitations on your certification. For example, if you certify Heavy HDE to the COstandards using only steady-state testing, include the statement "TRACTORS ONLY". Similarly, for engines with one or more approved AECDs for emergency vehicle applications under ยง 1036.115(h)(4), the statement: "THIS ENGINE IS FOR INSTALLATION IN EMERGENCY VEHICLES ONLY".

(d) You may add information to the emission control information label as follows:

(1) You may identify other emission standards that the engine meets or does not meet. You may add the information about the other emission standards to the statement we specify, or you may include it in a separate statement.

(2) You may add other information to ensure that the engine will be properly maintained and used.

(3) You may add appropriate features to prevent counterfeit labels. For example, you may include the engine's unique identification number on the label.

(e) You may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this part. We may also specify modified labeling requirements to be consistent with the intent of 40 CFR part 1037.

(f) If you obscure the engine label while installing the engine in the vehicle such that the label cannot be read during normal maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the vehicle. If others install your engine in their vehicles in a way that obscures the engine label, we require them to add a duplicate label on the vehicle (see 40 CFR 1068.105); in that case, give them the number of duplicate labels they request and keep the following records for at least five years:

(1) Written documentation of the request from the vehicle manufacturer.

(2) The number of duplicate labels you send for each engine family and the date you sent them.
