
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### § 1036.150 Interim provisions.
####### Limited production volume allowance under ABT.

(k)You may produce a limited number of Heavy HDE that continue to meet the standards that applied under 40 CFR 86.007-11 in model years 2027 through 2029. The maximum number of engines you may produce under this limited production allowance is 5 percent of the annual average of your actual U.S.-directed production volume of Heavy HDE in model years 2023-2025. Engine certification under this paragraph (k) is subject to the following conditions and requirements:

(1) Engines must meet all the standards and other requirements that apply under 40 CFR part 86 for model year 2026. Engine must be certified in separate engine families that qualify for carryover certification as described in § 1036.235(d).

(2) The NOFEL must be at or below 200 mg/hp&#xB7;hr. Calculate negative credits as described in § 1036.705 by comparing the NOFEL to the FTP emission standard specified in § 1036.104(a)(1), with a value for useful life of 650,000 miles. Meet the credit reporting and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 1036.730 and 1036.735.

(3) Label the engine as described in 40 CFR 86.095-35, but include the following alternate compliance statement: "THIS ENGINE CONFORMS TO U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR MODEL YEAR 2026 ENGINES UNDER 40 CFR 1036.150(k)."
