
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1036.240 Demonstrating compliance with criteria pollutant emission standards.

(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the duty-cycle emission standards in ยง 1036.104(a)(1) and (2) if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards (including all corrections and adjustments). This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors. Note that your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply if you participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part. Use good engineering judgment to demonstrate compliance with off-cycle standards throughout the useful life.

(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard (including all corrections and adjustments). Similarly, your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing any emission level above the applicable off-cycle emission standard for any pollutant. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.

(c) To compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable duty-cycle emission standards, apply deterioration factors to the measured emission levels for each pollutant. Section 1036.245 specifies how to test engines and engine components to develop deterioration factors that represent the deterioration expected in emissions over your engines' useful life. Section 1036.246 describes how to confirm or modify deterioration factors based on in-use verification testing. Your deterioration factors must take into account any available data from other in-use testing with similar engines. Small manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish. Apply deterioration factors as follows:
