
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1036.230 Selecting engine families.
####### i.e.,

(6) Method of control for engine operation other than governing (mechanical or electronic).

(7) The numerical level of the applicable criteria emission standards. For example, an engine family may not include engines certified to different family emission limits for criteria emission standards, though you may change family emission limits without recertifying as specified in § 1036.225(f).

(c) You may subdivide a group of engines that is identical under paragraph (b) of this section into different engine families if you show the expected criteria emission characteristics are different during the useful life.

(d) In unusual circumstances, you may group engines that are not identical with respect to the design aspects listed in paragraph (b) of this section in the same engine family if you show that their criteria emission characteristics during the useful life will be similar.

(e) Engine configurations certified as hybrid engines or hybrid powertrains may not be included in an engine family with engines that have nonhybrid powertrains. Note that this does not prevent you from including engines in a nonhybrid family if they are used in hybrid vehicles, as long as you certify them based on engine testing.

(f) You must certify your engines to the greenhouse gas standards of § 1036.108 using the same engine families you use for criteria pollutants. The following additional provisions apply with respect to demonstrating compliance with the standards in § 1036.108:

(1) You may subdivide an engine family into subfamilies that have a different FCL for COemissions. These subfamilies do not apply for demonstrating compliance with criteria standards in § 1036.104.

(2) If you certify engines in the family for use as both vocational and tractor engines, you must split your family into two separate subfamilies.

(i) Calculate emission credits relative to the vocational engine standard for the number of engines sold into vocational applications and relative to the tractor engine standard for the number of engines sold into non-vocational tractor applications. You may assign the numbers and configurations of engines within the respective subfamilies at any time before submitting the report required by § 1036.730. If the family participates in averaging, banking, or trading, you must identify the type of vehicle in which each engine is installed; we may alternatively allow you to use statistical methods to determine this for a fraction of your engines. Keep records to document this determination.

(ii) If you restrict use of the test configuration for your split family only to tractors, or only to vocational vehicles, you must identify a second testable configuration for the other type of vehicle (or an unrestricted configuration). Identify this configuration in your application for certification. The FCL for the engine family applies for this configuration as well as the primary test configuration.

(3) If you certify both engine fuel maps and powertrain fuel maps for an engine family, you may split the engine family into two separate subfamilies. Indicate this in your application for certification, and identify whether one or both of these sets of fuel maps applies for each group of engines. If you do not split your family, all engines within the family must conform to the engine fuel maps, including any engines for with the powertrain maps also apply.

(4) If you certify in separate engine families engines that could have been certified in vocational and tractor engine subfamilies in the same engine family, count the two families as one family for purposes of determining your obligations with respect to the OBD requirements and in-use testing requirements. Indicate in the applications for certification that the two engine families are covered by this paragraph (f)(4).

(5) Except as described in this paragraph (f), engine configurations within an engine family must use equivalent greenhouse gas emission controls. Unless we approve it, you may not produce nontested configurations without the same emission control hardware included on the tested configuration. We will only approve it if you demonstrate that the exclusion of the hardware does not increase greenhouse gas emissions.

(g) You may certify dual-fuel or flexible-fuel engines in a single engine family. You may include dedicated-fuel versions of this same engine model in the same engine family, as long as they are identical to the engine configuration with respect to that fuel type for the dual-fuel or flexible-fuel version of the engine. For example, if you produce an engine that can alternately run on gasoline and natural gas, you can include the gasoline-only and natural gas-only versions of the engine in the same engine family as the dual-fuel engine if engine operation on each fuel type is identical with or without installation of components for operating on the other fuel.
