
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Standards and Related Requirements
###### ยง 1036.150 Interim provisions.
####### Alternate family pass criteria for in-use testing.

(z)The following family pass criteria apply for manufacturer-run in-use testing instead of the pass criteria described in ยง 1036.425 for model years 2027 and 2028:

(1) Start by measuring emissions from five engines using the procedures described in subpart E of this part and ยง 1036.530. If four or five engines comply fully with the off-cycle bin standards, the engine family passes and you may stop testing.

(2) If exactly two of the engines tested under paragraph (z)(1) of this section do not comply fully with the off-cycle bin standards, test five more engines. If these additional engines all comply fully with the off-cycle bin standards, the engine family passes and you may stop testing.

(3) If three or more engines tested under paragraphs (z)(1) and (2) of this section do not comply fully with the off-cycle bin standards, test a total of at least 10 but not more than 15 engines. Calculate the arithmetic mean of the bin emissions from all the engine tests as specified in ยง 1036.530(g) for each pollutant. If the mean values are at or below the off-cycle bin standards, the engine family passes. If the mean value for any pollutant is above an off-cycle bin standard, the engine family fails.
