
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1036.235 Testing requirements for certification.
####### m,[object Object]

(i) We will determine fuel masses,and mean idle fuel mass flow rates,, if applicable, using both direct and indirect measurement. We will determine the result for each test point based on carbon balance error verification as described in § 1036.535(g)(3)(i) and (ii).

(ii) We will perform this comparison using the weighted results from GEM, using vehicles that are appropriate for the engine under test. For example, we may select vehicles that the engine went into for the previous model year.

(iii) If you supply cycle-average engine fuel maps for the highway cruise cycles instead of generating a steady-state fuel map for these cycles, we may perform a confirmatory test of your engine fuel maps for the highway cruise cycles by either of the following methods:

(A) Directly measuring the highway cruise cycle-average fuel maps.

(B) Measuring a steady-state fuel map as described in this paragraph (c)(5) and using it in GEM to create our own cycle-average engine fuel maps for the highway cruise cycles.

(iv) We will replace fuel maps as a result of confirmatory testing as follows:

(A) Weight individual duty cycle results using the vehicle categories determined in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and respective weighting factors in 40 CFR 1037.510(c) to determine a composite COemission value for each vehicle configuration; then repeat the process for all the unique vehicle configurations used to generate the manufacturer's fuel maps.

(B) The average percent difference between fuel maps is calculated using the following equation:

(C) Where the unrounded average percent difference between our composite weighted fuel map and the manufacturer's is at or below 0%, we will not replace the manufacturer's maps, and we will consider an individual engine to have passed the fuel map.

(6) We may perform confirmatory testing with an engine dynamometer to simulate normal engine operation to determine whether your emission-data engine meets off-cycle emission standards. The accuracy margins described in § 1036.420(a) do not apply for such laboratory testing.

(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:

(1) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year, items identified in § 1036.225(a), or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. We may waive this criterion for differences we determine not to be relevant.

(2) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data engine under paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification.

(e) We may require you to test a second engine of the same configuration in addition to the engines tested under paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.

(g) We may evaluate or test your engines to determine whether they have a defeat device before or after we issue a certificate of conformity. We may test or require testing on any vehicle or engine at a designated location, using driving cycles and conditions that may reasonably be expected in normal operation and use to investigate a potential defeat device. If we designate an engine's AECD as a possible defeat device, you must demonstrate to us that that the AECD does not reduce emission control effectiveness when the engine operates under conditions that may reasonably be expected in normal operation and use, unless one of the specific exceptions described in § 1036.115(h) applies.
