
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### § 1036.201 General requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity.

(a) You must send us a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each engine family. A certificate of conformity is valid from the indicated effective date until December 31 of the model year for which it is issued.

(b) The application must contain all the information required by this part and must not include false or incomplete statements or information (see § 1036.255).

(c) We may ask you to include less information than we specify in this subpart, as long as you maintain all the information required by § 1036.250.

(d) You must use good engineering judgment for all decisions related to your application (see 40 CFR 1068.5).

(e) An authorized representative of your company must approve and sign the application.

(f) See § 1036.255 for provisions describing how we will process your application.

(g) We may require you to deliver your test engines to a facility we designate for our testing (see § 1036.235(c)). Alternatively, you may choose to deliver another engine that is identical in all material respects to the test engine, or another engine that we determine can appropriately serve as an emission-data engine for the engine family.

(h) For engines that become new after being placed into service, such as rebuilt engines installed in new vehicles, we may specify alternate certification provisions consistent with the intent of this part. See 40 CFR 1068.120(h) and the definition of "new motor vehicle engine" in § 1036.801.
