
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1036.240 Demonstrating compliance with criteria pollutant emission standards.
####### Deterioration factor for crankcase emissions.

(5)If engines route crankcase emissions into the ambient atmosphere or into the exhaust downstream of exhaust aftertreatment, you must account for any increase in crankcase emissions throughout the useful life using good engineering judgment. Use separate deterioration factors for crankcase emissions of each pollutant (either multiplicative or additive).

(d) Determine the official emission result for each pollutant to at least one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine.

(e) You do not need deterioration factors to demonstrate compliance with off-cycle standards. However, for engines designed to discharge crankcase emissions to the ambient atmosphere, you must determine deteriorated emission levels to represent crankcase emissions at the end of useful life for purposes of demonstrating compliance with off-cycle emission standards. Determine an official brake-specific crankcase emission result for each pollutant based on operation over the FTP duty cycle. Also determine an official crankcase emission result for NOin g/hr from the idle portion of any of the duty cycles specified in subpart F of this part. Apply crankcase deterioration factors to all these official crankcase emission results as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figures to the same number of decimal places as the off-cycle emission standards in ยง 1036.104(a)(3).
