
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1036.246 Verifying deterioration factors.
####### Engine dynamometer testing.

(1)Measure emissions from engines equipped with in-use aftertreatment systems on an engine dynamometer as follows:

(i) Test the aftertreatment system from at least two engines using the procedures specified in subpart F of this part and 40 CFR part 1065. Install the aftertreatment system from the selected in-use vehicle, including all associated wiring, sensors, and related hardware and software, on one of the following partially complete engines:

(A) The in-use engine from the same vehicle.

(B) The emission-data engine used to determine the deterioration factors.

(C) A different emission-data engine from the same engine family that has been stablized as described in 40 CFR 1065.405(c).

(ii) Perform testing on all certification duty cycles with brake-specific emission standards (g/hp&#xB7;hr) to determine whether the engine meets all the duty-cycle emission standards, including any compliance allowance, for criteria pollutants. Apply infrequent regeneration adjustment factors as included in your application for certification or develop new factors if we request it.

(iii) Evaluate verification testing for each pollutant independently. You pass the verification test if at least 70 percent of tested engines meet standards for each pollutant over all duty cycles. You fail the verification test if fewer than 70 percent of engines meet standards for a given pollutant over all duty cycles.
