
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1036.246 Verifying deterioration factors.
####### PEMS testing.

(2)Measure emissions using PEMS with in-use engines that remain installed in selected vehicles as follows:

(i) Test at least five engines using the procedures specified in ยง 1036.555 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart J.

(ii) Measure emissions of NO, HC, and CO as the test vehicle's normal operator drives over a regular shift-day to determine whether the engine meets all the off-cycle emission standards that applied for the engine's original certification. Apply infrequent regeneration adjustment factors as included in your application for certification. For Spark-ignition HDE, calculate off-cycle emission standards for purposes of this subpart by multiplying the FTP duty-cycle standards in ยง 1036.104(a) by 1.5 and rounding to the same number of decimal places.

(iii) Evaluate verification testing for each pollutant independently. You pass the verification test if at least 70 percent of tested engines meet the off-cycle standards including any compliance allowance and accuracy margin, for each pollutant. You fail the verification test if fewer than 70 percent of tested engines do not meet standards for a given pollutant.

(iv) You may reverse a fail determination under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section by restarting and successfully completing the verification test for that year using the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If you do this, you must use the verification testing procedures specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for all remaining verification testing for the engine family.

(c) You may stop testing under the verification test program and concede a fail result before you meet all the testing requirements of this section.

(d) Prepare a report to describe your verification testing each year. Include at least the following information:

(1) Identify whether you tested using the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(2) Describe how the test results support a pass or fail decision for the verification test. For in-field measurements, include continuous 1 Hz data collected over the shift-day and binned emission values determined under ยง 1036.530.

(3) If your testing included invalid test results, describe the reasons for invalidating the data. Give us the invalid test results if we ask for them.

(4) Describe the types of vehicles selected for testing. If you determined that any selected vehicles with enough mileage accumulation were not suitable for testing, describe why you chose not to test them.

(5) For each tested engine, identify the vehicle's VIN, the engine's serial number, the engine's power rating, and the odometer reading and the engine's lifetime operating hours at the start of testing (or engine removal).

(6) State that the tested engines have been properly maintained and used and describe any noteworthy aspects of each vehicle's maintenance history. Describe the steps you took to prepare the engines for testing.

(7) For testing with engines that remain installed in vehicles, identify the date and location of testing. Also describe the ambient conditions and the driving route over the course of the shift-day.

(e) Send electronic reports to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification.

(1) You may send us reports as you complete testing for an engine instead of waiting until you complete testing for all engines.

(2) We may ask you to send us less information in your reports than we specify in this section.

(3) We may require you to send us more information to evaluate whether your engine family meets the requirements of this part.

(4) Once you send us information under this section, you need not send that information again in later reports.

(5) We will review your test report to evaluate the results of the verification testing at each stage. We will notify you if we disagree with your conclusions, if we need additional information, or if you need to revise your testing plan for future testing.
