
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart E - In-Use Testing
###### ยง 1036.401 Testing requirements for in-use engines.

(a) We may perform in-use testing of any engine family subject to the standards of this part, consistent with the Clean Air Act and the provisions of ยง 1036.235.

(b) This subpart describes a manufacturer-run field-testing program that applies for engines subject to compression-ignition standards under ยง 1036.104. Note that the testing requirements of 40 CFR part 86, subpart T, continue to apply for engines subject to exhaust emission standards under 40 CFR part 86.

(c) In-use test procedures for engines subject to spark-ignition standards apply as described in ยง 1036.530. We won't require routine manufacturer-run field testing for Spark-ignition HDE, but the procedures of this subpart describe how to use field-testing procedures to measure emissions from engines installed in vehicles. Use good engineering judgment to apply the measurement procedures for fuels other than gasoline.

(d) We may void your certificate of conformity for an engine family if you do not meet your obligations under this subpart. We may also void individual tests and require you to retest those vehicles or take other appropriate measures in instances where you have not performed the testing in accordance with the requirements described in this subpart.
