
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Certifying Engine Families
###### ยง 1036.255 EPA oversight on certificates of conformity.

(a) If we determine an application is complete and shows that the engine family meets all the requirements of this part and the Act, we will issue a certificate of conformity for the engine family for that model year. We may make the approval subject to additional conditions.

(b) We may deny an application for certification if we determine that an engine family fails to comply with emission standards or other requirements of this part or the Clean Air Act. We will base our decision on all available information. If we deny an application, we will explain why in writing.

(c) In addition, we may deny your application or suspend or revoke a certificate of conformity if you do any of the following:

(1) Refuse to comply with any testing or reporting requirements in this part.

(2) Submit false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting an application that causes submitted information to be false or incomplete.

(3) Cause any test data to become inaccurate.

(4) Deny us from completing authorized activities (see 40 CFR 1068.20). This includes a failure to provide reasonable assistance.

(5) Produce engines for importation into the United States at a location where local law prohibits us from carrying out authorized activities.

(6) Fail to supply requested information or amend an application to include all engines being produced.

(7) Take any action that otherwise circumvents the intent of the Act or this part.

(d) We may void a certificate of conformity if you fail to keep records, send reports, or give us information as required under this part or the Act. Note that these are also violations of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2).

(e) We may void a certificate of conformity if we find that you intentionally submitted false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting an application that causes submitted information to be false or incomplete after submission.

(f) If we deny an application or suspend, revoke, or void a certificate, you may ask for a hearing (see ยง 1036.820).
