
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart E - In-Use Testing
###### ยง 1036.405 Overview of the manufacturer-run field-testing program.

(a) You must test in-use engines from the families we select. We may select the following number of engine families for testing, except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) We may select up to 25 percent of your engine families in any calendar year, calculated by dividing the number of engine families you certified in the model year corresponding to the calendar year by four and rounding to the nearest whole number. We will consider only engine families with annual nationwide production volumes above 1,500 units in calculating the number of engine families subject to testing each calendar year under the annual 25 percent engine family limit. If you have only three or fewer families that each exceed an annual nationwide production volume of 1,500 units, we may select one engine family per calendar year for testing.

(2) Over any four-year period, we will not select more than the average number of engine families that you have certified over that four-year period (the model year when the selection is made and the preceding three model years), based on rounding the average value to the nearest whole number.

(3) We will not select engine families for testing under this subpart from a given model year if your total nationwide production volume was less than 100 engines.

(b) If there is clear evidence of a nonconformity with regard to an engine family, we may select that engine family without counting it as a selected engine family under paragraph (a) of this section. For example, there may be clear evidence of a nonconformity if you certify an engine family using carryover data after reaching a fail decision under this subpart in an earlier model year without modifying the engine to remedy the problem.

(c) We may select any individual engine family for testing, regardless of its production volume except as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, as long as we do not select more than the number of engine families described in paragraph (a) of this section. We may select an engine family from model year 2027 or any later model year.

(d) You must complete all the required testing and reporting under this subpart (for all ten test engines, if applicable), within 18 months after we receive your proposed plan for recruiting, screening, and selecting vehicles. We will typically select engine families for testing and notify you in writing by June 30 of the applicable calendar year. If you request it, we may allow additional time to send us this information.

(e) If you make a good-faith effort to access enough test vehicles to complete the testing requirements under this subpart for an engine family, but are unable to do so, you must ask us either to modify the testing requirements for the selected engine family or to select a different engine family.

(f) We may select an engine family for repeat testing in a later calendar year. Such a selection for repeat testing would count as an additional engine family for that year under paragraph (a) of this section.
