
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart E - In-Use Testing
###### § 1036.415 Preparing and testing engines.

(a) You must limit maintenance to what is in the owners manual for engines with that amount of service and age. For anything we consider an adjustable parameter (see § 1036.115(f)), you may adjust that parameter only if it is outside its adjustable range. You must then set the adjustable parameter to your recommended setting or the mid-point of its adjustable range, unless we approve your request to do otherwise. You must get our approval before adjusting anything not considered an adjustable parameter. You must keep records of all maintenance and adjustments, as required by § 1036.435. You must send us these records, as described in § 1036.430(a)(2)(ix), unless we instruct you not to send them.

(b) You may treat a vehicle with an illuminated MIL or stored trouble code as follows:

(1) If a candidate vehicle has an illuminated MIL or stored trouble code, either test the vehicle as received or repair the vehicle before testing. Once testing is initiated on the vehicle, you accept that the vehicle has been properly maintained and used.

(2) If a MIL illuminates or a trouble code appears on a test vehicle during a field test, stop the test and repair the vehicle. Determine test results as specified in § 1036.530 using one of the following options:

(i) Restart the testing and use only the portion of the full test results without the MIL illuminated or trouble code set.

(ii) Initiate a new test and use only the post-repair test results.

(3) If you determine that repairs are needed but they cannot be completed in a timely manner, you may disqualify the vehicle and replace it with another vehicle.

(c) Use appropriate fuels for testing, as follows:

(1) You may use any diesel fuel that meets the specifications for S15 in ASTM D975 (incorporated by reference in § 1036.810). You may use any commercially available biodiesel fuel blend that meets the specifications for ASTM D975 or ASTM D7467 (incorporated by reference in § 1036.810) that is either expressly allowed or not otherwise indicated as an unacceptable fuel in the vehicle's owner or operator manual or in the engine manufacturer's published fuel recommendations. You may use any gasoline fuel that meets the specifications in ASTM D4814 (incorporated by reference in § 1036.810). For other fuel types, you may use any commercially available fuel.

(2) You may drain test vehicles' fuel tanks and refill them with diesel fuel conforming to the specifications in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) Any fuel that is added to a test vehicle's fuel tanks must be purchased at a local retail establishment near the site of vehicle recruitment or screening, or along the test route. Alternatively, the fuel may be drawn from a central fueling source, as long as the fuel represents commercially available fuel in the area of testing.

(4) No post-refinery fuel additives are allowed, except that specific fuel additives may be used during field testing if you can document that the test vehicle has a history of normally using the fuel treatments and they are not prohibited in the owners manual or in your published fuel-additive recommendations.

(5) You may take fuel samples from test vehicles to ensure that appropriate fuels were used during field testing. If a vehicle fails the vehicle-pass criteria and you can show that an inappropriate fuel was used during the failed test, that particular test may be voided. You may drain vehicles' fuel tanks and refill them with diesel fuel conforming to the specifications described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. You must report any fuel tests that are the basis of voiding a test in your report under § 1036.430.

(d) You must test the selected engines using the test procedure described in § 1036.530 while they remain installed in the vehicle. Testing consists of characterizing emission rates for moving average 300 second windows while driving, with those windows divided into bins representing different types of engine operation over a shift-day. Measure emissions as follows:

(1) Perform all testing with PEMS and field-testing procedures referenced in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart J. Measure emissions of NO, CO, and CO. We may require you to also measure emissions of HC and PM. You may determine HC emissions by any method specified in 40 CFR 1065.660(b).

(2) If the engine's crankcase discharges emissions into the ambient atmosphere, as allowed by § 1036.115(a), you must either route all crankcase emissions into the exhaust for a combined measurement or add the crankcase emission values specified in § 1036.240(e) to represent emission levels at full useful life instead of measuring crankcase emissions in the field.

(e) Operate the test vehicle under conditions reasonably expected during normal operation. For the purposes of this subpart, normal operation generally includes the vehicle's normal routes and loads (including auxiliary loads such as air conditioning in the cab), normal ambient conditions, and the normal driver.

(f) Once an engine is set up for testing, test the engine for one shift-day, except as allowed in § 1036.420(d). To complete a shift-day's worth of testing, start sampling at the beginning of a shift and continue sampling for the whole shift, subject to the calibration requirements of the PEMS. A shift-day is the period of a normal workday for an individual employee. Evaluate the emission data as described in § 1036.420 and include the data in the reporting and record keeping requirements specified in §§ 1036.430 and 1036.435.

(g) For stop-start and automatic engine shutdown systems meeting the specifications of 40 CFR 1037.660, override idle-reduction features if they are adjustable under 40 CFR 1037.520(j)(4). If those systems are tamper-resistant under 40 CFR 1037.520(j)(4), set the 1-Hz emission rate to zero for all regulated pollutants when the idle-reduction feature is active. Do not exclude these data points under § 1036.530(c)(3)(ii).
