
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### § 1036.505 Engine data and information to support vehicle certification.

You must give vehicle manufacturers information as follows so they can certify their vehicles to greenhouse gas emission standards under 40 CFR part 1037:

(a) Identify engine make, model, fuel type, combustion type, engine family name, calibration identification, and engine displacement. Also identify whether the engines meet COstandards for tractors, vocational vehicles, or both.

(b) This paragraph (b) describes four different methods to generate engine fuel maps. For engines without hybrid components and for mild hybrid engines where you do not include hybrid components in the test, generate fuel maps using either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. For other hybrid engines, generate fuel maps using paragraph (b)(3) of this section. For hybrid and nonhybrid powertrains and for vehicles where the transmission is not automatic, automated manual, manual, or dual-clutch, generate fuel maps using paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(1) Determine steady-state engine fuel maps as described in § 1036.535(b). Determine fuel consumption at idle as described in § 1036.535 (c). Determine cycle-average engine fuel maps as described in § 1036.540, excluding cycle-average fuel maps for highway cruise cycles.

(2) Determine steady-state fuel maps as described in either § 1036.535(b) or (d). Determine fuel consumption at idle as described in § 1036.535(c). Determine cycle-average engine fuel maps as described in § 1036.540, including cycle-average engine fuel maps for highway cruise cycles. We may do confirmatory testing by creating cycle-average fuel maps from steady-state fuel maps created in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for highway cruise cycles. In § 1036.540 we define the vehicle configurations for testing; we may add more vehicle configurations to better represent your engine's operation for the range of vehicles in which your engines will be installed (see 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(1)).

(3) Determine fuel consumption at idle as described in § 1036.535(c) and (d) and determine cycle-average engine fuel maps as described in 40 CFR 1037.550, including cycle-average engine fuel maps for highway cruise cycles. Set up the test to apply accessory load for all operation by primary intended service class as described in the following table:

(4) Generate powertrain fuel maps as described in 40 CFR 1037.550 instead of fuel mapping under § 1036.535 or § 1036.540. Note that the option in 40 CFR 1037.550(b)(2) is allowed only for hybrid engine testing. Disable stop-start systems and automatic engine shutdown systems when conducting powertrain fuel map testing using 40 CFR 1037.550.

(c) Provide the following information if you generate engine fuel maps using either paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section:

(1) Full-load torque curve for installed engines and the full-load torque curve of the engine (parent engine) with the highest fueling rate that shares the same engine hardware, including the turbocharger, as described in 40 CFR 1065.510. You may use 40 CFR 1065.510(b)(5)(i) for Spark-ignition HDE. Measure the torque curve for hybrid engines that have an RESS as described in 40 CFR 1065.510(g)(2) with the hybrid system active. Test hybrid engines with no RESS as described in 40 CFR 1065.510(b)(5)(ii).

(2) Motoring torque curve as described in 40 CFR 1065.510(c)(2) and (5) for nonhybrid and hybrid engines, respectively. For engines with a low-speed governor, remove data points where the low-speed governor is active. If you don't know when the low-speed governor is active, we recommend removing all points below 40 r/min above the warm low-idle speed.

(3) Declared engine idle speed. For vehicles with manual transmissions, this is the engine speed with the transmission in neutral. For all other vehicles, this is the engine's idle speed when the transmission is in drive.

(4) The engine idle speed during the transient cycle-average fuel map.

(5) The engine idle torque during the transient cycle-average fuel map.

(d) If you generate powertrain fuel maps using paragraph (b)(4) of this section, determine the system continuous rated power according to § 1036.520.
