
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart E - In-Use Testing
###### ยง 1036.425 Pass criteria for engine families.

For testing with PEMS under ยง 1036.415(d)(1), determine the number of engines you must test from each selected engine family and the family pass criteria as follows:

(a) Start by measuring emissions from five engines using the procedures described in this subpart E and ยง 1036.530. If all five engines comply fully with the off-cycle bin standards, the engine family passes, and you may stop testing.

(b) If only one of the engines tested under paragraph (a) of this section does not comply fully with the off-cycle bin standards, test one more engine. If this additional engine complies fully with the off-cycle bin standards, the engine family passes, and you may stop testing.

(c) If two or more engines tested under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not comply fully with the off-cycle bin standards, test additional engines until you have tested a total of ten engines. Calculate the arithmetic mean of the bin emissions from the ten engine tests as specified in ยง 1036.530(g) for each pollutant. If the mean values are at or below the off-cycle bin standards, the engine family passes. If the mean value for any pollutant is above an off-cycle bin standard, the engine family fails.

(d) You may accept a fail result for the engine family and discontinue testing at any point in the sequence of testing the specified number of engines.
