
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart E - In-Use Testing
###### § 1036.430 Reporting requirements.
####### Report content.

(a)Prepare test reports as follows:

(1) Include the following for each engine family:

(i) Describe how you recruited vehicles. Describe how you used any criteria or thresholds to narrow your search or to screen individual vehicles.

(ii) Include a summary of the vehicles you have disqualified and the reasons you disqualified them, whether you base the disqualification on the criteria in § 1036.410(b), owner nonparticipation, or anything else. If you disqualified a vehicle due to misfueling, include the results of any fuel sample tests. If you reject a vehicle due to tampering, describe how you determined that tampering occurred.

(iii) Identify how many engines you have tested from the applicable engine family and how many engines still need to be tested. Identify how many tested engines have passed or failed under § 1036.420.

(iv) After the final test, report the results and state the outcome of testing for the engine family based on the criteria in § 1036.425.

(v) Describe any incomplete or invalid tests that were conducted under this subpart.

(2) Include the following information for the test vehicle:

(i) The EPA engine-family designation, and the engine's model number, total displacement, and power rating.

(ii) The date EPA selected the engine family for testing.

(iii) The vehicle's make and model and the year it was built.

(iv) The vehicle identification number and engine serial number.

(v) The vehicle's type or application (such as delivery, line haul, or dump truck). Also, identify the type of trailer, if applicable.

(vi) The vehicle's maintenance and use history.

(vii) The known status history of the vehicle's OBD system and any actions taken to address OBD trouble codes or MIL illumination over the vehicle's lifetime.

(viii) Any OBD codes or MIL illumination that occur after you accept the vehicle for field testing under this subpart.

(ix) Any steps you take to maintain, adjust, modify, or repair the vehicle or its engine to prepare for or continue testing, including actions to address OBD trouble codes or MIL illumination. Include any steps you took to drain and refill the vehicle's fuel tank(s) to correct misfueling, and the results of any fuel test conducted to identify misfueling.

(3) Include the following data and measurements for each test vehicle:

(i) The date and time of testing, and the test number.

(ii) Number of shift-days of testing (see § 1036.415(f)).

(iii) Route and location of testing. You may base this description on the output from a global-positioning system (GPS).

(iv) The steps you took to ensure that vehicle operation during testing was consistent with normal operation and use, as described in § 1036.415(e).

(v) Fuel test results, if fuel was tested under § 1036.410 or § 1036.415.

(vi) The vehicle's mileage at the start of testing. Include the engine's total lifetime hours of operation, if available.

(vii) The number of windows in each bin (see § 1036.420(c)).

(viii) The bin emission value per vehicle for each pollutant. Describe the method you used to determine HC as specified in 40 CFR 1065.660(b).

(ix) Recorded 1 Hz test data for at least the following parameters, noting that gaps in the 1 Hz data file over the shift-day are only allowed during analyzer zero and span verifications and during engine shutdown when the engine is keyed off:

(A) Ambient temperature.

(B) Ambient pressure.

(C) Ambient humidity.

(D) Altitude.

(E) Emissions of HC, CO, CO, and NO. Report results for PM if it was measured in a manner that provides 1 Hz test data.

(F) Differential backpressure of any PEMS attachments to vehicle exhaust.

(G) Exhaust flow.

(H) Exhaust aftertreatment temperatures.

(I) Engine speed.

(J) Engine brake torque.

(K) Engine coolant temperature

(L) Intake manifold temperature.

(M) Intake manifold pressure.

(N) Throttle position.

(O) Any parameter sensed or controlled, available over the Controller Area Network (CAN) network, to modulate the emission control system or fuel-injection timing.

(4) Include the following summary information after you complete testing with each engine:

(i) State whether the engine meets the off-cycle standards for each bin for each pollutant as described in § 1036.420(e).

(ii) Describe if any testing or evaluations were conducted to determine why a vehicle failed the off-cycle emission standards described in § 1036.420.

(iii) Describe the purpose of any diagnostic procedures you conduct.

(iv) Describe any instances in which the OBD system illuminated the MIL or set trouble codes. Also describe any actions taken to address the trouble codes or MIL.

(v) Describe any instances of misfueling, the approved actions taken to address the problem, and the results of any associated fuel sample testing.

(vi) Describe the number and length of any data gaps in the 1 Hz data file, the reason for the gap(s), and the parameters affected.
