
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.510 Supplemental Emission Test.
####### r,

(viii) Select a tire radius,that represents the worst-case pair of tire size and drive axle ratio for COexpected for vehicles in which the hybrid powertrain or hybrid engine will be installed. This is typically the smallest tire radius.

(ix) If you are certifying a hybrid engine, use a default transmission efficiency of 0.95 and create the vehicle model along with its default transmission shift strategy as described in 40 CFR 1037.550(a)(3)(ii). Use the transmission parameters defined in Table 1 of ยง 1036.540 to determine transmission type and gear ratio. For Light HDV and Medium HDV, use the Light HDV and Medium HDV parameters for FTP, LLC, and SET duty cycles. For Tractors and Heavy HDVs, use the Tractor and Heavy HDV transient cycle parameters for the FTP and LLC duty cycles and the Tractor and Heavy HDV highway cruise cycle parameters for the SET duty cycle.

(c) Measure emissions using the SET duty cycle shown in Table 1 of this section to determine whether engines meet the steady-state compression-ignition standards specified in subpart B of this part. Table 1 of this section specifies test settings, as follows:

(1) The duty cycle for testing nonhybrid engines involves a schedule of normalized engine speed and torque values. Note that nonhybrid powertrains are generally tested as engines, so this section does not describe separate procedures for that configuration.

(2) The duty cycle for testing hybrid engines and hybrid powertrains involves a schedule of vehicle speeds and road grade as follows:
