
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.510 Supplemental Emission Test.
####### P,v

(i) Determine road grade at each point based on the continuous rated power of the hybrid powertrain system,, in kW determined in ยง 1036.520, the vehicle speed (A, B, or C) in mi/hr for a given SET mode,, and the specified road-grade coefficients using the following equation:

(ii) Use the vehicle C speed determined in ยง 1036.520. Determine vehicle A and B speeds as follows:

(A) Determine vehicle A speed using the following equation:

(B) Determine vehicle B speed using the following equation:

(3) Table 1 follows:

(d) Determine criteria pollutant emissions for plug-in hybrid engines and powertrains as follows:

(1) Precondition the engine or powertrain in charge-sustaining mode. Perform testing as described in this section for hybrid engines and hybrid powertrains in charge-sustaining mode.

(2) Carry out a charge-depleting test as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except as follows:

(i) Fully charge the RESS after preconditioning.

(ii) Operate the hybrid engine or powertrain continuously over repeated SET duty cycles until you reach the end-of-test criterion defined in 40 CFR 1066.501(a)(3).

(iii) Calculate emission results for each SET duty cycle. Figure 1 of this section provides an example of a charge-depleting test sequence where there are two test intervals that contain engine operation.

(3) Report the highest emission result for each criteria pollutant from all tests in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, even if those individual results come from different test intervals.

(4) Figure 1 follows:


