
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.512 Federal Test Procedure.
####### m,,W,,P,P

(c) The FTP duty cycle consists of an initial run through the test interval from a cold start as described in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart F, followed by a (20 +/-1) minute hot soak with no engine operation, and then a final hot start run through the same transient test interval. Engine starting is part of both the cold-start and hot-start test intervals. Calculate the total emission mass of each constituent,and the total work,over each test interval as described in 40 CFR 1065.650. Calculate total work over each test interval for powertrain testing using system power,Determineusing ยง 1036.520(f). For powertrains with automatic transmissions, account for and include the work produced by the engine from the CITT load. Calculate the official transient emission result from the cold-start and hot-start test intervals using the following equation:

(d) Determine criteria pollutant emissions for plug-in hybrid engines and powertrains as follows:

(1) Precondition the engine or powertrain in charge-sustaining mode. Perform testing as described in this section for hybrid engines and hybrid powertrains in charge-sustaining mode.

(2) Carry out a charge-depleting test as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except as follows:

(i) Fully charge the battery after preconditioning.

(ii) Operate the hybrid engine or powertrain over one FTP duty cycle followed by alternating repeats of a 20-minute soak and a hot start test interval until you reach the end-of-test criteria defined in 40 CFR 1066.501.

(iii) Calculate emission results for each successive pair of test intervals. Calculate the emission result by treating the first of the two test intervals as a cold-start test. Figure 1 of ยง 1036.512 provides an example of a charge-depleting test sequence where there are three test intervals with engine operation for two overlapping FTP duty cycles.

(3) Report the highest emission result for each criteria pollutant from all tests in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, even if those individual results come from different test intervals.

(4) Figure 1 follows:


