
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.520 Determining power and vehicle speed values for powertrain testing.
####### P

(2) Select a manufacturer-declared value forto represent system peak power.

(c) Verify the following before the start of each test interval:

(1) The state-of-charge of the rechargeable energy storage system (RESS) must be at or above 90% of the operating range between the minimum and maximum RESS energy levels specified by the manufacturer.

(2) The conditions of all hybrid system components must be within their normal operating range as declared by the manufacturer, including ensuring that no features are actively limiting power or vehicle speed.

(d) Carry out the test as described in this paragraph (d). Warm up the powertrain by operating it. We recommend operating the powertrain at any vehicle speed and road grade that achieves approximately 75% of its expected maximum power. Continue the warm-up until the engine coolant, block, or head absolute temperature is within +/-2% of its mean value for at least 2 min or until the engine thermostat controls engine temperature. Within 90 seconds after concluding the warm-up, operate the powertrain over a continuous trace meeting the following specifications:

(1) Bring the vehicle speed to 0 mi/hr and let the powertrain idle at 0 mi/hr for 50 seconds.

(2) Set maximum driver demand for a full load acceleration at 6.0% road grade with an initial vehicle speed of 0 mi/hr, continuing for 268 seconds.

(3) Linearly ramp the grade from 6.0% down to 0.0% over 300 seconds. Stop the test 30 seconds after the grade setpoint has reached 0.0%.
