
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.520 Determining power and vehicle speed values for powertrain testing.

This section describes how to determine the system peak power and continuous rated power of hybrid and nonhybrid powertrain systems and the vehicle speed for carrying out duty-cycle testing under this part and 40 CFR 1037.550.

(a) You must map or re-map an engine before a test if any of the following apply:

(1) If you have not performed an initial engine map.

(2) If the atmospheric pressure near the engine's air inlet is not within +/-5 kPa of the atmospheric pressure recorded at the time of the last engine map.

(3) If the engine or emission-control system has undergone changes that might affect maximum torque performance. This includes changing the configuration of auxiliary work inputs and outputs.

(4) If you capture an incomplete map on your first attempt or you do not complete a map within the specified time tolerance. You may repeat mapping as often as necessary to capture a complete map within the specified time.

(b) Set up the powertrain test according to 40 CFR 1037.550, with the following exceptions:

(1) Use vehicle parameters, other than power, as specified in ยง 1036.510(b)(2). Use the applicable automatic transmission as specified in ยง 1036.540(c)(2).
