
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.514 Low Load Cycle.
####### P,P

(i) Replacewithwhich is the peak rated power determined in ยง 1036.520.

(ii) Keep the transmission in drive for all idle segments 200 seconds or less. For idle segments more than 200 seconds, place the transmission in park or neutral at the start of the idle segment and place the transmission into drive again no earlier than 5 seconds before the first nonzero vehicle speed setpoint.

(iii) For hybrid engines, select the transmission from Table 1 of ยง 1036.540, substituting "engine" for "vehicle".

(iv) For hybrid engines, you may request to change the engine-commanded torque at idle to better represent curb idle transmission torque (CITT).

(v) For plug-in hybrid engines and powertrains, determine criteria pollutant and greenhouse gas emissions as described in ยง 1036.510(d) and (e), replacing "SET" with "LLC".

(c) Set dynamometer torque demand such that vehicle power represents an accessory load for all idle operation as described in Table 1 of paragraph (c)(4) of this section for each primary intended service class. Additional provisions related to accessory load apply for the following special cases:

(1) For engines with stop-start technology, account for accessory load during engine-off conditions by determining the total engine-off power demand over the test interval and distributing that load over the engine-on portions of the test interval based on calculated average power. You may determine the engine-off time by running practice cycles or through engineering analysis.

(2) Apply accessory loads for hybrid powertrain testing that includes the transmission either as a mechanical or electrical load.

(3) You may apply the following deviations from specified torque settings for smoother idle (other than idle that includes motoring), or you may develop different procedures for adjusting accessory load at idle consistent with good engineering judgment:

(i) Set the reference torque to correspond to the applicable accessory load for all points with normalized speed at or below zero percent and reference torque from zero up to the torque corresponding to the accessory load.

(ii) Change the reference torques to correspond to the applicable accessory load for consecutive points with reference torques from zero up to the torque corresponding to the accessory load that immediately precedes or follows idle points.

(4) Table 1 follows:
