
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.525 Clean Idle test.

Measure emissions using the procedures described in this section to determine whether engines and hybrid powertrains meet the clean idle emission standards in ยง 1036.104(b). For plug-in hybrid engines and powertrains, perform the test with the hybrid function disabled.

(a) The clean idle test consists of two separate test intervals as follows:

(1) Mode 1 consists of engine operation with a speed setpoint at your recommended warm idle speed. Set the dynamometer torque demand corresponding to vehicle power requirements at your recommended warm idle speed that represent in-use operation.

(2) Mode 2 consists of engine operation with a speed setpoint at 1100 r/min. Set the dynamometer torque demand to account for the sum of the following power loads:

(i) Determine power requirements for idling at 1100 r/min.

(ii) Apply a power demand of 2 kW to account for appliances and accessories the vehicle operator may use during rest periods.

(3) Determine torque demand for testing under this paragraph (a) based on an accessory load that includes the engine cooling fan, alternator, coolant pump, air compressor, engine oil and fuel pumps, and any other engine accessory that operates at the specific test condition. Also include the accessory load from the air conditioning compressor operating at full capacity for Mode 2. Do not include any other load for air conditioning or other cab or vehicle accessories except as specified.

(b) Perform the Clean Idle test as follows:

(1) Warm up the engine by operating it over the FTP or SET duty cycle, or by operating it at any speed above peak-torque speed and at (65 to 85) % of maximum mapped power. The warm-up is complete when the engine thermostat controls engine temperature or when the engine coolant's temperature is within 2% of its mean value for at least 2 minutes.

(2) Start operating the engine in Mode 1 as soon as practical after the engine warm-up is complete.

(3) Start sampling emissions 10 minutes after reaching the speed and torque setpoints and continue emission sampling and engine operation at those setpoints. Stop emission sampling after 1200 seconds to complete the test interval.

(4) Linearly ramp the speed and torque setpoints over 5 seconds to start operating the engine in Mode 2. Sample emissions during Mode 2 as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(c) Verify that the test speed stays within +/-50 r/min of the speed setpoint throughout the test. The torque tolerance is +/-2 percent of the maximum mapped torque at the test speed. Verify that measured torque meets the torque tolerance relative to the torque setpoint throughout the test.
