
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.530 Test procedures for off-cycle testing.
####### Compression-ignition.

(2)Create a series of 300 second test intervals for engines subject to compression-ignition standards (moving-average windows) as follows:

(i) Begin and end each test interval with a pair of consecutive data points with no exclusions as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Select the last data point of each test interval such that the test interval includes 300 seconds of data with no exclusions, as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The test interval may be a fraction of a second more or less than 300 seconds to account for the precision of the time stamp in recording 1 Hz data. A test interval may include up to 599 seconds of data with continuous exclusions; invalidate any test interval that includes at least 600 seconds of continuous sampling with excluded data.

(ii) The first 300 second test interval starts with the first pair of consecutive data points with no exclusions. Determine the start of each subsequent 300 second test interval by finding the first pair of consecutive data points with no exclusions after the initial data point of the previous test interval.

(iii) The last 300 second test interval ends with the last pair of consecutive data points with no exclusions before the end of the shift day.
