
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.535 Determining steady-state engine fuel maps and fuel consumption at idle.
####### General test provisions.

(a)Perform fuel mapping using the procedure described in paragraph (b) of this section to establish measured fuel-consumption rates at a range of engine speed and load settings. Measure fuel consumption at idle using the procedure described in paragraph (c) of this section. Paragraph (d) of this section describes how to apply the steady-state mapping from paragraph (b) of this section for the special case of cycle-average mapping for highway cruise cycles as described in ยง 1036.540. Use these measured fuel-consumption values to declare fuel-consumption rates for certification as described in paragraph (g) of this section.

(1) Map the engine's torque curve and declare engine idle speed as described in ยง 1036.505(c)(1) and (3). Perform emission measurements as described in 40 CFR 1065.501 and 1065.530 for discrete-mode steady-state testing. This section uses engine parameters and variables that are consistent with 40 CFR part 1065.

(2) Measure NOemissions as described in paragraph (f) of this section. Include these measured NOvalues any time you report to us your fuel consumption values from testing under this section.

(3) You may use shared data across engine configurations to the extent that the fuel-consumption rates remain valid.

(4) The provisions related to carbon balance error verification in ยง 1036.543 apply for all testing in this section. These procedures are optional, but we will perform carbon balance error verification for all testing under this section.

(5) Correct fuel mass flow rate to a mass-specific net energy content of a reference fuel as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
