
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.535 Determining steady-state engine fuel maps and fuel consumption at idle.
####### Indirect fuel-flow measurement.

(ii)Record speed and torque and measure emissions and other inputs needed to run the chemical balance in 40 CFR 1065.655(c) for (30 +/- 1) seconds. Determine the corresponding mean values for the test interval. Use of redundant indirect fuel-flow measurements requires our advance approval. Measure background concentration as described in 40 CFR 1065.140, except that you may use one of the following methods to apply a single background reading to multiple test intervals:

(A) For batch sampling, you may sample periodically into the bag over the course of multiple test intervals and read them as allowed in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section. You must determine a single background reading for all affected test intervals if you use the method described in this paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A).

(B) You may measure background concentration by sampling from the dilution air during the interruptions allowed in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section or at other times before or after test intervals. Measure background concentration within 30 minutes before the first test interval and within 30 minutes before each reentry point. Measure the corresponding background concentration within 30 minutes after each exit point and within 30 minutes after the final test interval. You may measure background concentration more frequently. Correct measured emissions for test intervals between a pair of background readings based on the average of those two values. Once the system stabilizes, collect a background sample over an averaging period of at least 30 seconds.

(5) Warm up the engine as described in 40 CFR 1065.510(b)(2). Within 60 seconds after concluding the warm-up, linearly ramp the speed and torque setpoints over 5 seconds to the starting test point from paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(6) Stabilize the engine by operating at the specified speed and torque setpoints for (70 +/- 1) seconds and then start the test interval. Record measurements during the test interval. Measure and report NOemissions over each test interval as described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(7) After completing a test interval, linearly ramp the speed and torque setpoints over 5 seconds to the next test point.

(i) You may interrupt the fuel-mapping sequence before a reentry point as noted in paragraphs (b)(1)(v) and (vi) of this section. If you zero and span analyzers, read and evacuate background bag samples, or sample dilution air for a background reading during the interruption, the maximum time to stabilize in paragraph (b)(6) of this section does not apply. If you shut off the engine, restart with engine warm-up as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(ii) You may interrupt the fuel-mapping sequence at a given speed setpoint before completing measurements at that speed. If this happens, you may measure background concentration and take other action as needed to validate test intervals you completed before the most recent reentry point. Void all test intervals after the last reentry point. Restart testing at the appropriate reentry point in the same way that you would start a new test. Operate the engine long enough to stabilize aftertreatment thermal conditions, even if it takes more than 70 seconds. In the case of an infrequent regeneration event, interrupt the fuel-mapping sequence and allow the regeneration event to finish with the engine operating at a speed and load that allows effective regeneration.

(iii) If you void any one test interval, all the testing at that speed setpoint is also void. Restart testing by repeating the fuel-mapping sequence as described in this paragraph (b); include all voided speed setpoints and omit testing at speed setpoints that already have a full set of valid results.
