
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.535 Determining steady-state engine fuel maps and fuel consumption at idle.
####### Measured vs. declared fuel consumption.

(g)Determine declared fuel consumption as follows:

(1) Select fuel consumption rates in g/s to characterize the engine's fuel maps. You must select a declared value for each test point that is at or above the corresponding value determined in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, including those from redundant measurements.

(2) Declared fuel consumption serves as emission standards under ยง 1036.108. These are the values that vehicle manufacturers will use for certification under 40 CFR part 1037. Note that production engines are subject to GEM cycle-weighted limits as described in ยง 1036.301.

(3) If you perform the carbon balance error verification, select declared values that are at or above the following emission measurements:

(i) If you pass theverification, you may use the average of the values from direct and indirect fuel measurements.

(ii) If you failverification, but pass either theorverification, use the value from indirect fuel measurement.

(iii) If you fail all three verifications, you must either void the test interval or use the highest value from direct and indirect fuel measurements. Note that we will consider our test results to be invalid if we fail all three verifications.
