
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.535 Determining steady-state engine fuel maps and fuel consumption at idle.
####### Indirect fuel flow measurement.

(ii)Record speed and torque and measure emissions and other inputs needed to run the chemical balance in 40 CFR 1065.655(c) for (600 +/-1) seconds. Determine the corresponding mean values for the test interval. Use of redundant indirect fuel-flow measurements require prior EPA approval. Measure background concentration as described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. We recommend setting the CVS flow rate as low as possible to minimize background, but without introducing errors related to insufficient mixing or other operational considerations. Note that for this testing 40 CFR 1065.140(e) does not apply, including the minimum dilution ratio of 2:1 in the primary dilution stage.

(4) Warm up the engine as described in 40 CFR 1065.510(b)(2). Within 60 seconds after concluding the warm-up, linearly ramp the speed and torque over 20 seconds to the first speed and torque setpoint.

(5) The measurement at each unique combination of speed and torque setpoints constitutes a test interval. Operate the engine at the selected speed and torque set points for (180 +/-1) seconds, and then start the test interval. Record measurements during the test interval. Measure and report NOemissions over each test interval as described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(6) After completing each test interval, repeat the steps in paragraphs (c)(4) and (5) of this section for all the remaining engine-idle test points.

(7) Each test point represents a stand-alone measurement. You may therefore take any appropriate steps between test intervals to process collected data and to prepare engines and equipment for further testing. Note that the allowances for combining background in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section do not apply. If an infrequent regeneration event occurs, allow the regeneration event to finish; void the test interval if the regeneration starts during a measurement.

(8) Correct the measured or calculated mean fuel mass flow rate, at each of the engine-idle operating points to account for mass-specific net energy content as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
