
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.540 Determining cycle-average engine fuel maps.
####### General test provisions.

(b)The following provisions apply for testing under this section:

(1) To perform fuel mapping under this section for hybrid engines, make sure the engine and its hybrid features are appropriately configured to represent the hybrid features in your testing.

(2) Measure NOemissions for each specified sampling period in grams. You may perform these measurements using a NOemission-measurement system that meets the requirements of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart J. Include these measured NOvalues any time you report to us your fuel-consumption values from testing under this section. If a system malfunction prevents you from measuring NOemissions during a test under this section but the test otherwise gives valid results, you may consider this a valid test and omit the NOemission measurements; however, we may require you to repeat the test if we determine that you inappropriately voided the test with respect to NOemission measurement.

(3) The provisions related to carbon balance error verification in ยง 1036.543 apply for all testing in this section. These procedures are optional, but we will perform carbon balance error verification for all testing under this section.

(4) Correct fuel mass to a mass-specific net energy content of a reference fuel as described in paragraph (d)(13) of this section.

(5) This section uses engine parameters and variables that are consistent with 40 CFR part 1065.
