
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.540 Determining cycle-average engine fuel maps.
####### Overview.

(a)This section describes how to determine an engine's cycle-average fuel maps for model year 2021 and later vehicles. Vehicle manufacturers may need cycle-average fuel maps for transient duty cycles, highway cruise cycles, or both to demonstrate compliance with emission standards under 40 CFR part 1037. Generate cycle-average engine fuel maps as follows:

(1) Determine the engine's torque maps as described in ยง 1036.505(c).

(2) Determine the engine's steady-state fuel map and fuel consumption at idle as described in ยง 1036.535. If you are applying cycle-average fuel mapping for highway cruise cycles, you may instead use GEM's default fuel map instead of generating the steady-state fuel map in ยง 1036.535(b).

(3) Simulate several different vehicle configurations using GEM (see 40 CFR 1037.520) to create new engine duty cycles as described in paragraph (c) of this section. The transient vehicle duty cycles for this simulation are in 40 CFR part 1037, appendix A; the highway cruise cycles with grade are in 40 CFR part 1037, appendix D. Note that GEM simulation relies on vehicle service classes as described in 40 CFR 1037.140.

(4) Test the engines using the new duty cycles to determine fuel consumption, cycle work, and average vehicle speed as described in paragraph (d) of this section and establish GEM inputs for those parameters for further vehicle simulations as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
