
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.540 Determining cycle-average engine fuel maps.
####### Create engine duty cycles.

(c)Use GEM to simulate your engine operation with several different vehicle configurations to create transient and highway cruise engine duty cycles corresponding to each vehicle configuration as follows:

(1) Set up GEM to simulate your engine's operation based on your engine's torque maps, steady-state fuel maps, warm-idle speed as defined in 40 CFR 1037.520(h)(1), and fuel consumption at idle as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(2) Set up GEM with transmission parameters for different vehicle service classes and vehicle duty cycles. Specify the transmission's torque limit for each gear as the engine's maximum torque as determined in 40 CFR 1065.510. Specify the transmission type as Automatic Transmission for all engines and for all engine and vehicle duty cycles, except that the transmission type is Automated Manual Transmission for Heavy HDE operating over the highway cruise cycles or the SET duty cycle. For automatic transmissions set neutral idle to "Y" in the vehicle file. Select gear ratios for each gear as shown in the following table:

(3) Run GEM for each simulated vehicle configuration and use the GEM outputs of instantaneous engine speed and engine flywheel torque for each vehicle configuration to generate a 10 Hz transient duty cycle corresponding to each vehicle configuration operating over each vehicle duty cycle. Run GEM for the specified number of vehicle configurations. You may run additional vehicle configurations to represent a wider range of in-use vehicles. Run GEM as follows:
