
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.540 Determining cycle-average engine fuel maps.
####### Test the engine with GEM cycles.

(d)Test the engine over each of the transient engine duty cycles generated in paragraph (c) of this section as follows:

(1) Operate the engine over a sequence of required and optional engine duty cycles as follows:

(i) Sort the list of engine duty cycles into three separate groups by vehicle duty cycle: transient vehicle cycle, 55 mi/hr highway cruise cycle, and 65 mi/hr highway cruise cycle.

(ii) Within each group of engine duty cycles derived from the same vehicle duty cycle, first run the engine duty cycle with the highest reference cycle work, followed by the cycle with the lowest cycle work; followed by the cycle with second-highest cycle work, followed by the cycle with the second-lowest cycle work; continuing through all the cycles for that vehicle duty cycle. The series of engine duty cycles to represent a single vehicle duty cycle is a single fuel-mapping sequence. Each engine duty cycle represents a different interval. Repeat the fuel-mapping sequence for the engine duty cycles derived from the other vehicle duty cycles until testing is complete.

(iii) Operate the engine over two full engine duty cycles to precondition before each interval in the fuel-mapping sequence. Precondition the engine before the first and second engine duty cycle in each fuel-mapping sequence by repeating operation with the engine duty cycle with the highest reference cycle work over the relevant vehicle duty cycle. The preconditioning for the remaining cycles in the fuel-mapping sequence consists of operation over the preceding two engine duty cycles in the fuel-mapping sequence (with or without measurement). For transient vehicle duty cycles, start each engine duty cycle within 10 seconds after finishing the preceding engine duty cycle (with or without measurement). For highway cruise cycles, start each engine duty cycle and interval after linearly ramping to the speed and torque setpoints over 5 seconds and stabilizing for 15 seconds.

(2) If the engine has an adjustable warm idle speed setpoint, set it to the value defined in 40 CFR 1037.520(h)(1).

(3) Control speed and torque to meet the cycle validation criteria in 40 CFR 1065.514 for each interval, except that the standard error of the estimate in Table 2 of 40 CFR 1065.514 is the only speed criterion that applies if the range of reference speeds is less than 10 percent of the mean reference speed. For spark-ignition gaseous-fueled engines with fuel delivery at a single point in the intake manifold, you may apply the statistical criteria in Table 5 in this section for transient testing. Note that 40 CFR part 1065 does not allow reducing cycle precision to a lower frequency than the 10 Hz reference cycle generated by GEM.

(4) Record measurements using direct and/or indirect measurement of fuel flow as follows:
