
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Test Procedures
###### ยง 1036.540 Determining cycle-average engine fuel maps.
####### Indirect fuel-flow measurement.

(ii)Record speed and torque and measure emissions and other inputs needed to run the chemical balance in 40 CFR 1065.655(c) for the interval defined by the engine duty cycle. Determine the corresponding mean values for the interval. Use of redundant indirect fuel-flow measurements requires our advance approval. Measure background concentration as described in 40 CFR 1065.140, except that you may use one of the following methods to apply a single background reading to multiple intervals:

(A) If you use batch sampling to measure background emissions, you may sample periodically into the bag over the course of multiple intervals. If you use this provision, you must apply the same background readings to correct emissions from each of the applicable intervals.

(B) You may determine background emissions by sampling from the dilution air over multiple engine duty cycles. If you use this provision, you must allow sufficient time for stabilization of the background measurement; followed by an averaging period of at least 30 seconds. Use the average of the two background readings to correct the measurement from each engine duty cycle. The first background reading must be taken no greater than 30 minutes before the start of the first applicable engine duty cycle and the second background reading must be taken no later than 30 minutes after the end of the last applicable engine duty cycle. Background readings may not span more than a full fuel-mapping sequence for a vehicle duty cycle.

(5) Warm up the engine as described in 40 CFR 1065.510(b)(2). Within 60 seconds after concluding the warm-up, start the linear ramp of speed and torque over 20 seconds to the first speed and torque setpoint of the preconditioning cycle.

(6) Precondition the engine before the start of testing as described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.

(7) Operate the engine over the first engine duty cycle. Record measurements during the interval. Measure and report NOemissions over each interval as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(8) Continue testing engine duty cycles that are derived from the other vehicle duty cycles until testing is complete.

(9) You may interrupt the fuel-mapping sequence after completing any interval. You may calibrate analyzers, read and evacuate background bag samples, or sample dilution air for measuring background concentration before restarting. Shut down the engine during any interruption. If you restart the sequence within 30 minutes or less, restart the sequence at paragraph (d)(6) of this section and then restart testing at the next interval in the fuel-mapping sequence. If you restart the sequence after more than 30 minutes, restart the sequence at paragraph (d)(5) of this section and then restart testing at the next interval in the fuel-mapping sequence.

(10) The following provisions apply for infrequent regeneration events, other interruptions during intervals, and otherwise voided intervals:

(i) Stop testing if an infrequent regeneration event occurs during an interval or an interval is interrupted for any other reason. Void the interrupted interval and any additional intervals for which you are not able to meet requirements for measuring background concentration. If the infrequent regeneration event occurs between intervals, void completed intervals only if you are not able to meet requirements for measuring background concentration for those intervals.

(ii) If an infrequent regeneration event occurs, allow the regeneration event to finish with the engine operating at a speed and load that allows effective regeneration.

(iii) If you interrupt testing during an interval, if you restart the sequence within 30 minutes or less, restart the sequence at paragraph (d)(6) of this section and then restart testing at the next interval in the fuel-mapping sequence. If you restart the sequence after more than 30 minutes, restart the sequence at paragraph (d)(5) of this section and then restart testing at the next interval in the fuel-mapping sequence.

(iv) If you void one or more intervals, you must perform additional testing to get results for all intervals. You may rerun a complete fuel-mapping sequence or any contiguous part of the fuel-mapping sequence. If you get a second valid measurement for any interval, use only the result from the last valid interval. If you restart the sequence within 30 minutes or less, restart the sequence at paragraph (d)(6) of this section and then restart testing at the first selected interval in the fuel-mapping sequence. If you restart the sequence after more than 30 minutes, restart the sequence at paragraph (d)(5) of this section and then restart testing at the first selected interval in the fuel-mapping sequence. Continue testing until you have valid results for all intervals. The following examples illustrate possible scenarios for a partial run through a fuel-mapping sequence:

(A) If you voided only the interval associated with the fourth engine duty cycle in the sequence, you may restart the sequence using the second and third engine duty cycles as the preconditioning cycles and stop after completing the interval associated with the fourth engine duty cycle.

(B) If you voided the intervals associated with the fourth and sixth engine duty cycles, you may restart the sequence using the second and third engine duty cycles for preconditioning and stop after completing the interval associated with the sixth engine duty cycle.

(11) You may send signals to the engine controller during the test, such as current transmission gear and vehicle speed, if that allows engine operation to better represent in-use operation.
