
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1036.605 Alternate emission standards for engines used in specialty vehicles.

Starting in model year 2027, compression-ignition engines at or above 56 kW and spark-ignition engines of any size that will be installed in specialty vehicles as allowed by 40 CFR 1037.605 are exempt from the standards of subpart B of this part if they are certified under this part to alternate emission standards as follows:

(a) Spark-ignition engines must be of a configuration that is identical to one that is certified under 40 CFR part 1048 to Blue Sky standards under 40 CFR 1048.140.

(b) Compression-ignition engines must be of a configuration that is identical to one that is certified under 40 CFR part 1039, and meet the following additional standards using the same duty cycles that apply under 40 CFR part 1039:

(1) The engines must be certified with a family emission limit for PM of 0.020 g/kW-hr.

(2) Diesel-fueled engines using selective catalytic reduction must meet an emission standard of 0.1 g/kW-hr for NO.

(c) Except as specified in this section, engines certified under this section must meet all the requirements that apply under 40 CFR part 1039 or 1048 instead of the comparable provisions in this part. Before shipping engines under this section, you must have written assurance from vehicle manufacturers that they need a certain number of exempted engines under this section. In your annual production report under 40 CFR 1039.250 or 1048.250, count these engines separately and identify the vehicle manufacturers that will be installing them. Treat these engines as part of the corresponding engine family under 40 CFR part 1039 or part 1048 for compliance purposes such as testing production engines, in-use testing, defect reporting, and recall.

(d) The engines must be labeled as described in ยง 1036.135, with the following statement instead of the one specified in ยง 1036.135(c)(8): "This engine conforms to alternate standards for specialty vehicles under 40 CFR 1036.605." Engines certified under this section may not have the label specified for nonroad engines in 40 CFR part 1039 or 1048 or any other label identifying them as nonroad engines.

(e) In a separate application for a certificate of conformity, identify the corresponding nonroad engine family, describe the label required under section, state that you meet applicable diagnostic requirements under 40 CFR part 1039 or part 1048, and identify your projected nationwide production volume.

(f) No additional certification fee applies for engines certified under this section.

(g) Engines certified under this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part or under 40 CFR part 1039. The vehicles in which these engines are installed may generate or use emission credits as described in 40 CFR part 1037.
