
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1036.601 Overview of compliance provisions.

(a) Engine and vehicle manufacturers, as well as owners, operators, and rebuilders of engines subject to the requirements of this part, and all other persons, must observe the provisions of this part, the provisions of 40 CFR part 1068, and the provisions of the Clean Air Act. The provisions of 40 CFR part 1068 apply for heavy-duty highway engines as specified in that part, subject to the following provisions:

(1) The exemption provisions of 40 CFR 1068.201 through 1068.230, 1068.240, and 1068.260 through 265 apply for heavy-duty motor vehicle engines. The other exemption provisions, which are specific to nonroad engines, do not apply for heavy-duty vehicles or heavy-duty engines.

(2) Engine signals to indicate a need for maintenance under ยง 1036.125(a)(1)(ii) are considered an element of design of the emission control system. Disabling, resetting, or otherwise rendering such signals inoperative without also performing the indicated maintenance procedure is therefore prohibited under 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1).

(3) The warranty-related prohibitions in section 203(a)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7522(a)(4)) apply to manufacturers of new heavy-duty highway engines in addition to the prohibitions described in 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(6). We may assess a civil penalty up to $44,539 for each engine or vehicle in violation.

(b) The following provisions from 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 continue to apply after December 20, 2026 for engines subject to the requirements of this part:

(1) The tampering prohibition in 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) applies for alternative fuel conversions as specified in 40 CFR part 85, subpart F.

(2) Engine manufacturers must meet service information requirements as specified in 40 CFR 86.010-38(j).

(3) Provisions related to nonconformance penalties apply as described in 40 CFR part 86, subpart L. Note that nonconformance penalty provisions are not available for current or future emission standards unless we revise the regulation to specify how to apply those provisions.

(4) The manufacturer-run in-use testing program described in 40 CFR part 86, subpart T, continues to apply for engines subject to exhaust emission standards under 40 CFR part 86.

(c) The emergency vehicle field modification provisions of 40 CFR 85.1716 apply with respect to the standards of this part.
