
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1036.615 Engines with Rankine cycle waste heat recovery and hybrid powertrains.
####### Off-cycle technologies.
############# ยง 1036.620 Alternate COstandards based on model year 2011 compression-ignition engines.

For model years 2014 through 2016, you may certify your compression-ignition engines to the COstandards of this section instead of the COstandards in ยง 1036.108. However, you may not certify engines to these alternate standards if they are part of an averaging set in which you carry a balance of banked credits. You may submit applications for certifications before using up banked credits in the averaging set, but such certificates will not become effective until you have used up (or retired) your banked credits in the averaging set. For purposes of this section, you are deemed to carry credits in an averaging set if you carry credits from advanced technology that are allowed to be used in that averaging set.

(a) The standards of this section are determined from the measured emission rate of the engine of the applicable baseline 2011 engine family or families as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Calculate the COemission rate of the baseline engine using the same equations used for showing compliance with the otherwise applicable standard. The alternate COstandard for light and medium heavy-duty vocational-certified engines (certified for COusing the transient cycle) is equal to the baseline emission rate multiplied by 0.975. The alternate COstandard for tractor-certified engines (certified for COusing the SET duty cycle) and all other Heavy HDE is equal to the baseline emission rate multiplied by 0.970. The in-use FEL for these engines is equal to the alternate standard multiplied by 1.03.

(b) This paragraph (b) applies if you do not certify all your engine families in the averaging set to the alternate standards of this section. Identify separate baseline engine families for each engine family that you are certifying to the alternate standards of this section. For an engine family to be considered the baseline engine family, it must meet the following criteria:

(1) It must have been certified to all applicable emission standards in model year 2011. If the baseline engine was certified to a NOFEL above the standard and incorporated the same emission control technologies as the new engine family, you may adjust the baseline COemission rate to be equivalent to an engine meeting the 0.20 g/hp&#xB7;hr NOstandard (or your higher FEL as specified in this paragraph (b)(1)), using certification results from model years 2009 through 2011, consistent with good engineering judgment.
