
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Special Compliance Provisions
###### ยง 1036.615 Engines with Rankine cycle waste heat recovery and hybrid powertrains.
####### Off-cycle technologies.
######## a,b.

(i) Use the following equation to relate model year 2009-2011 NOand COemission rates (g/hp&#xB7;hr): CO=x log(NO)+

(ii) For model year 2014-2016 engines certified to NOFELs above 0.20 g/hp&#xB7;hr, correct the baseline COemissions to the actual NOFELs of the 2014-2016 engines.

(iii) Calculate separate adjustments for emissions over the SET duty cycle and the transient cycle.

(2) The baseline configuration tested for certification must have the same engine displacement as the engines in the engine family being certified to the alternate standards, and its rated power must be within five percent of the highest rated power in the engine family being certified to the alternate standards.

(3) The model year 2011 U.S.-directed production volume of the configuration tested must be at least one percent of the total 2011 U.S.-directed production volume for the engine family.

(4) The tested configuration must have cycle-weighted BSFC equivalent to or better than all other configurations in the engine family.

(c) This paragraph (c) applies if you certify all your engine families in the primary intended service class to the alternate standards of this section. For purposes of this section, you may combine Light HDE and Medium HDE into a single averaging set. Determine your baseline COemission rate as the production-weighted emission rate of the certified engine families you produced in the 2011 model year. If you produce engines for both tractors and vocational vehicles, treat them as separate averaging sets. Adjust the COemission rates to be equivalent to an engine meeting the average NOFEL of new engines (assuming engines certified to the 0.20 g/hp&#xB7;hr NOstandard have a NOFEL equal to 0.20 g/hp&#xB7;hr), as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(d) Include the following statement on the emission control information label: "THIS ENGINE WAS CERTIFIED TO AN ALTERNATE COSTANDARD UNDER 40 CFR 1036.620."

(e) You may not bank COemission credits for any engine family in the same averaging set and model year in which you certify engines to the standards of this section. You may not bank any advanced-technology credits in any averaging set for the model year you certify under this section (since such credits would be available for use in this averaging set). Note that the provisions of ยง 1036.745 apply for deficits generated with respect to the standards of this section.

(f) You need our approval before you may certify engines under this section, especially with respect to the numerical value of the alternate standards. We will not approve your request if we determine that you manipulated your engine families or engine configurations to certify to less stringent standards, or that you otherwise have not acted in good faith. You must keep and provide to us any information we need to determine that your engine families meet the requirements of this section. Keep these records for at least five years after you stop producing engines certified under this section.
