
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### ยง 1036.705 Generating and calculating emission credits.

(a) The provisions of this section apply separately for calculating emission credits for each pollutant.

(b) For each participating family, calculate positive or negative emission credits relative to the otherwise applicable emission standard. Calculate positive emission credits for a family that has an FEL/FCL below the standard. Calculate negative emission credits for a family that has an FEL/FCL above the standard. Sum your positive and negative credits for the model year before rounding.

(1) Calculate emission credits to the nearest megagram (Mg) for each family or subfamily using the following equation:

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The following additional provisions apply for calculating COcredits:

(i) For engine families certified to both the vocational and tractor engine standards, calculate credits separately for the vocational engines and the tractor engines. We may allow you to use statistical methods to estimate the total production volumes where a small fraction of the engines cannot be tracked precisely.

(ii) Calculate the transient cycle conversion factor for vocational engines based on the average of vocational engine configurations weighted by their production volumes. Similarly, calculate the transient cycle conversion factor for tractor engines based on the average of tractor engine configurations weighted by their production volumes. Note that calculating the transient cycle conversion factor for tractors requires you to use the conversion factor even for engines certified to standards based on the SET duty cycle.

(iii) The FCL for COis based on measurement over the FTP duty cycle for vocational engines and over the SET duty cycle for tractor engines.
