
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### ยง 1036.705 Generating and calculating emission credits.
####### i.e.,

(4) You may not generate emission credits for tractor engines (engines not certified to the transient cycle for CO) installed in vocational vehicles (including vocational tractors certified under 40 CFR 1037.630 or exempted under 40 CFR 1037.631). We will waive this provision where you demonstrate that less than five percent of the engines in your tractor family were installed in vocational vehicles. For example, if you know that 96 percent of your tractor engines were installed in non-vocational tractors but cannot determine the vehicle type for the remaining four percent, you may generate credits for all the engines in the family.

(5) You may generate COemission credits from a model year 2021 or later medium heavy-duty engine family subject to spark-ignition standards for exchanging with other engine families only if the engines in the family are gasoline-fueled. You may generate COcredits from non-gasoline engine families only for the purpose of offsetting CHand/or NO emissions within the same engine family as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) As described in ยง 1036.730, compliance with the requirements of this subpart is determined at the end of the model year based on actual U.S.-directed production volumes. Keep appropriate records to document these production volumes. Do not include any of the following engines to calculate emission credits:

(1) Engines that you do not certify to the COstandards of this part because they are permanently exempted under subpart G of this part or under 40 CFR part 1068.

(2) Exported engines.

(3) Engines not subject to the requirements of this part, such as those excluded under ยง 1036.5. For example, do not include engines used in vehicles certified to the greenhouse gas standards of 40 CFR 86.1819.

(4) Any other engines if we indicate elsewhere in this part that they are not to be included in the calculations of this subpart.

(d) You may use COemission credits to show compliance with CHand/or NO FELs instead of the otherwise applicable emission standards. To do this, calculate the CHand/or NO emission credits needed (negative credits) using the equation in paragraph (b) of this section, using the FEL(s) you specify for your engines during certification instead of the FCL. You must use 34 Mg of positive COcredits to offset 1 Mg of negative CHcredits for model year 2021 and later engines, and you must use 25 Mg of positive COcredits to offset 1 Mg of negative CHcredits for earlier engines. You must use 298 Mg of positive COcredits to offset 1 Mg of negative NO credits.
