
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### § 1036.730 ABT reports.

(a) If you certify any of your engine families using the ABT provisions of this subpart, you must send us a final report by September 30 following the end of the model year.

(b) Your report must include the following information for each engine family participating in the ABT program:

(1) Engine-family designation and averaging set.

(2) The emission standards that would otherwise apply to the engine family.

(3) The FEL/FCL for each pollutant. If you change the FEL/FCL after the start of production, identify the date that you started using the new FEL/FCL and/or give the engine identification number for the first engine covered by the new FEL/FCL. In this case, identify each applicable FEL/FCL and calculate the positive or negative emission credits as specified in § 1036.225(f).

(4) The projected and actual U.S.-directed production volumes for the model year. If you changed an FEL/FCL during the model year, identify the actual U.S.-directed production volume associated with each FEL/FCL.

(5) The transient cycle conversion factor for each engine configuration as described in § 1036.705.

(6) Useful life.

(7) Calculated positive or negative emission credits for the whole engine family. Identify any emission credits that you traded, as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(c) Your report must include the following additional information:

(1) Show that your net balance of emission credits from all your participating engine families in each averaging set in the applicable model year is not negative, except as allowed under § 1036.745. Your credit tracking must account for the limitation on credit life under § 1036.740(d).

(2) State whether you will reserve any emission credits for banking.

(3) State that the report's contents are accurate.

(d) If you trade emission credits, you must send us a report within 90 days after the transaction, as follows:

(1) As the seller, you must include the following information in your report:

(i) The corporate names of the buyer and any brokers.

(ii) A copy of any contracts related to the trade.

(iii) The averaging set corresponding to the engine families that generated emission credits for the trade, including the number of emission credits from each averaging set.

(2) As the buyer, you must include the following information in your report:

(i) The corporate names of the seller and any brokers.

(ii) A copy of any contracts related to the trade.

(iii) How you intend to use the emission credits, including the number of emission credits you intend to apply for each averaging set.

(e) Send your reports electronically to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.

(f) Correct errors in your report as follows:

(1) If you or we determine by September 30 after the end of the model year that errors mistakenly decreased your balance of emission credits, you may correct the errors and recalculate the balance of emission credits. You may not make these corrections for errors that are determined later than September 30 after the end of the model year. If you report a negative balance of emission credits, we may disallow corrections under this paragraph (f)(1).

(2) If you or we determine any time that errors mistakenly increased your balance of emission credits, you must correct the errors and recalculate the balance of emission credits.
