
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter U - Air Pollution Controls
#### PART 1036 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HEAVY-DUTY HIGHWAY ENGINES
##### Subpart H - Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
###### ยง 1036.740 Restrictions for using emission credits.
####### CO,credits from hybrid engines and other advanced technologies.

(c)Phase 1 COcredits you generate under ยง 1036.615 may be used for any of the averaging sets identified in paragraph (a) of this section; you may also use those credits to demonstrate compliance with the COemission standards in 40 CFR 86.1819 and 40 CFR part 1037. Similarly, you may use Phase 1 advanced-technology credits generated under 40 CFR 86.1819-14(k)(7) or 40 CFR 1037.615 to demonstrate compliance with the COstandards in this part. In the case of Spark-ignition HDE and Light HDE you may not use more than 60,000 Mg of credits from other averaging sets in any model year.

(1) The maximum COcredits you may bring into the following service class groups is 60,000 Mg per model year:

(i) Spark-ignition HDE, Light HDE, and Light HDV. This group comprises the averaging sets listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section and the averaging set listed in 40 CFR 1037.740(a)(1).

(ii) Medium HDE and Medium HDV. This group comprises the averaging sets listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and 40 CFR 1037.740(a)(2).

(iii) Heavy HDE and Heavy HDV. This group comprises the averaging sets listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and 40 CFR 1037.740(a)(3).

(2) Paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not limit the advanced-technology credits that can be used within a service class group if they were generated in that same service class group.
