
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 21 - SMALL BUSINESS
##### § 21.5 Issuance of statements.

(a) Upon application by a small business concern pursuant to § 21.3 the Regional Administrator will, if he finds that the additions, alterations, or methods of operation covered by the application are adequate and necessary to comply with an applicable standard, issue a written statement to the applicant to that effect, within 45 working days following receipt of the application, or within 45 working days following receipt of all information required to be submitted pursuant to § 21.3(c), whichever is later. Such a written statement shall be classified as a full approval. If an application is deficient in any respect, with regard to the specifications for submission listed in § 21.3(c), the Regional Administrator shall promptly, but in no event later than 30 working days following receipt of the application, notify the applicant of such deficiency.

(b)(1) If an application contains proposed alterations, additions, or methods of operation that are adequate and necessary to comply with an applicable standard but also contains proposed alterations, additions, or methods of operation that are not necessary to comply with an applicable standard, the Regional Administrator shall conditionally approve the application within the time limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and shall also identify in the approval those alterations, additions, or methods of operation that he determines are not necessary.

(2) Conditional approvals as contained in a statement will satisfy the requirements for approval by EPA for those alterations, additions, or methods of operation determined to be necessary and adequate. Such conditional approvals may be submitted to SBA in satisfaction of the requirements of section 7(g)(2)(B) of the Small Business Act.

(3) Conditional approvals will not satisfy the requirements for approval by EPA for those alterations, additions, or methods of operation included in the application that are determined not to be necessary. Unnecessary alterations, additions, or methods of operation are those which are extraneous to the achievement of an applicable standard.

(4) Conditional approvals may be appealed to the Deputy Administrator by an applicant in accordance with the procedures identified in § 21.8.

(c) If the Regional Administrator determines that the additions, alterations, or methods of operation covered by an application are not necessary and adequate to comply with an applicable standard, he shall disapprove the application and shall so advise the applicant of such determination within the time limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and shall state in writing the reasons for his determination.

(d) Any application shall be disapproved if the Regional Administrator determines that the proposed addition, alteration, or method of operation would result in the violation of any other requirement of this Act, or of any other Federal or State law or regulation with respect to the protection of the environment.

(e) An applicant need not demonstrate that its facility or method of operation will meet all applicable requirements established under the Act. The applicant need only demonstrate that the additions, alterations, or methods of operation will assist in ensuring compliance with one or more of the applicable standards for which financial assistance is being requested.

(f) An application should not include major alternative designs significantly differing in scope, concept, or capability. It is expected that the applicant at the time of submission will have selected the most appropriate or suitable design for the addition, alteration, or method of operation.

(g) EPA will not provide assistance in the form of engineering, design, planning or other technical services to any applicant in the preparation of his application.

(h) An applicant may be issued a certification for additions, alterations, or methods of operation constructed or undertaken before loan assistance was applied for by the applicant. Any such applications would be reviewed by SBA for eligibility under SBA criteria, including refinancing and loan exposure.
