
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 633 - REQUIRED CONTRACT PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - Federal-Aid Construction Contracts (Other Than Appalachian Contracts)
###### ยง 633.102 Applicability.

(a) The required contract provisions and the required proposal notices apply to all Federal-aid construction contracts other than Appalachian construction contracts.

(b) Form FHWA-1273, "Required Contract Provisions, Federal-aid Construction Contracts," contains required contract provisions and required proposal notices that are required by regulations promulgated by the FHWA or other Federal agencies. The required contract provisions of Form FHWA-1273 shall be physically incorporated in each Federal-aid highway construction contract other than Appalachian construction contracts (see ยง 633.104 for availability of form).

(c) [Reserved]

(d) The required contract provisions contained in Form FHWA-1273 shall apply to all work performed on the contract by the contractor's own organization and to all work performed on the contract by piecework, station work, or by subcontract.

(e) The contractor shall insert in each subcontract, except as excluded by law or regulation, the required contract provisions contained in Form FHWA-1273 and further require their inclusion in any lower tier subcontract that may in turn be made. The required contract provisions of Form FHWA-1273 shall not be incorporated by reference in any case. The prime contractor shall be responsible for compliance by any subcontractor or lower tier subcontractor with the requirements contained in the provisions of Form FHWA-1273.

(f) The State highway agency (SHA) shall include the notices concerning certification of nonsegregated facilities and implementation of the Clean Air Act and Federal Water Pollution Control Act, pursuant to 40 CFR part 15, in all bidding proposals for Federal-aid highway construction projects. As the notices are reproduced in Form FHWA-1273, the SHA may include Form FHWA-1273 in its entirety to meet this requirement.
