
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 633 - REQUIRED CONTRACT PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Federal-Aid Contracts (Appalachian Contracts)
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 633 - Types of Contracts to Which the Civil Rights Act of 1964 Is Applicable

Section 324 of title 23 U.S.C., the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and the implementing regulations of the Department of Transportation (49 CFR part 21), including the provisions of paragraphs (2)(iii) and (2)(v) of appendix C thereof relative to employment practices, are applicable to the following types of contracts awarded by State highway departments, contractors, and first tier subcontractors, including those who supply materials and lease equipment:

1. Construction.

2. Planning.

3. Research.

4. Highway Safety.

5. Engineering.

6. Property Management.

7. Fee contracts and other commitments with persons for services incidental to the acquisition of right-of-way including, but not limited to:

a. Advertising contracts.

b. Agreements for economic studies.

c. Contracts for surveys and plats.

d. Contracts for abstracts of title certificates and title insurance.

e. Contracts for appraisal services and expert witness fees.

f. Contracts to negotiate for the acquisition of right-of-way.

g. Contracts for disposal of improvements and property management services.

h. Contracts for employment of fee attorneys for right-of-way procurement, or preparation and trial of condemnation cases.

i. Contracts for escrow and closing services.
