
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 633 - REQUIRED CONTRACT PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Federal-Aid Contracts (Appalachian Contracts)
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 633 - Required Contract Provisions, Appalachian Development Highway System and Local Access Roads Construction Contracts

1. These contract provisions shall apply to all work performed on the contract by the contractor with his own organization and with the assistance of workmen under his immediate superintendence and to all work performed on the contract by piecework, station work, or by subcontract.

2. Except as otherwise provided in sections II, III, and IV hereof, the contractor shall insert in each of his subcontracts all of the stipulations contained in these Required Contract Provisions and also a clause requiring his subcontractors to include these Required Contract Provisions in any lower tier subcontracts which they may enter into, together with a clause requiring the inclusion of these provisions in any further subcontracts that may in turn be made. The Required Contract Provisions shall in no instance be incorporated by reference.

3. A breach of any of the stipulations contained in these Required Contract Provisions may be grounds for termination of the contract.

4. A breach of the following clauses may also be grounds for debarment as provided in 29 CFR 5.6(b):

Section 1, paragraph 2.

Section VI, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 5 and 8a.

Section VII, paragraphs 1, 5a, 5b and 5d.

1. During the performance of this contract, the contractor undertaking to do work which is, or reasonably may be, done as on-site work, shall give preference to qualified persons who regularly reside in the labor area as designated by the United States Department of Labor wherein the contract work is situated, or the subregion, or the Appalachian counties of the State wherein the contract work is situated, except:

a. To the extent that qualified persons regularly residing in the area are not available.

b. For the reasonable needs of the contractor to employ supervisory or specially experienced personnel necessary to assure an efficient execution of the contract work.

c. For the obligation of the contractor to offer employment to present or former employees as the result of a lawful collective bargaining contract, provided that the number of nonresident persons employed under this subparagraph 1c shall not exceed 20 percent of the total number of employees employed by the contractor on the contract work, except as provided in subparagraph 4 below.

2. The contractor shall place a job order with the State Employment Service indicating (a) the classifications of laborers, mechanics and other employees he anticipates will be required to perform the contract work, (b) the number of employees required in each classification, (c) the date on which he estimates such employees will be required, and (d) any other pertinent information required by the State Employment Service to complete the job order form. The job order may be placed with the State Employment Service in writing or by telephone. If during the course of the contract work, the information submitted by the contractor in the original job order is substantially modified, he shall promptly notify the State Employment Service.

3. The contractor shall give full consideration to all qualified job applicants referred to him by the State Employment Service. The contractor is not required to grant employment to any job applicants who, in his opinion, are not qualified to perform the classification of work required.

4. If, within one week following the placing of a job order by the contractor with the State Employment Service, the State Employment Service is unable to refer any qualified job applicants to the contractor, or less than the number requested, the State Employment Service will forward a certificate to the contractor indicating the unavailability of applicants. Such certificate shall be made a part of the contractor's permanent project records. Upon receipt of this certificate, the contractor may employ persons who do not normally reside in the labor area to fill the positions covered by the certificate, notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph 1c above.

5. The contractor shall include the provisions of section II-1 through II-4 in every subcontract for work which is, or reasonably may be, done as on-site work.

During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows:

a. The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: Employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoffs or termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection of training, including apprenticeship. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the State highway department setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.

b. The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.

c. The contractor will send to each labor union or representative of workers with which he has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice to be provided by the State highway department advising the said labor union or workers' representative of the contractor's commitments under this section III and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment.

d. The contractor will comply with all provisions of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and of the rules, regulations and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor.

e. The contractor will furnish all information and reports required by Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and by rules, regulations and orders of the Secretary of Labor or pursuant thereto, and will permit access to his books, records and accounts by the Federal Highway Administration and the Secretary of Labor for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with such rules, regulations and orders.

f. In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with the nondiscrimination clauses of this contract or with any of the said rules, regulations or orders, this contract may be canceled, terminated or suspended in whole or in part and the contractor may be declared ineligible for further Government contracts or federally-assisted construction contracts in accordance with procedures authorized in Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and such other sanctions may be imposed and remedies invoked as provided in Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, or by rule, regulation or order of the Secretary of Labor, or as otherwise provided by law.
