
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 633 - REQUIRED CONTRACT PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Federal-Aid Contracts (Appalachian Contracts)
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 633 - Required Contract Provisions, Appalachian Development Highway System and Local Access Roads Construction Contracts
####### Apprentices and trainees (Programs of Department of Labor).

5.a. Apprentices will be permitted to work at less than the predetermined rate for the work they performed when they are employed and individually registered in a bona fide apprenticeship program registered with the U.S. Department of Labor, Manpower Administration, Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training, or with a State Apprenticeship Agency recognized by the Bureau, or if a person is employed in his first 90 days of probationary employment as an apprentice in such an apprenticeship program, who is not individually registered in the program, but who has been certified by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training or a State Apprenticeship Agency (where appropriate) to be eligible for probationary employment as an apprentice. The allowable ratio of apprentices to journeymen in any craft classification shall not be greater than the ratio permitted to the contractor as to his entire work force under the registered program. Any employee listed on a payroll at an apprentice wage rate, who is not a trainee as defined in 29 CFR 5.2(c)(2) or is not registered or otherwise employed as stated above, shall be paid the wage rate determined by the Secretary of Labor for the classification of work he actually performed. The contractor or subcontractor will be required to furnish to the State highway department or to a representative of the Wage-Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor written evidence of the registration of his program and apprentices as well as the appropriate ratios and wage rates (expressed in percentages of the journeyman hourly rates), for the area of construction prior to using any apprentices on the contract work. The wage rate paid apprentices shall be not less than the appropriate percentage of the journeyman's rate contained in the applicable wage determination.

b. Trainees, except as provided in 29 CFR 5.15, will not be permitted to work at less than the predetermined rate for the work performed unless they are employed pursuant to and individually registered in a program which has received prior approval, evidenced by formal certification, by the U.S. Department of Labor, Manpower Administration, Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training. The ratio of trainees to journeymen shall not be greater than permitted under the plan approved by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training. Every trainee must be paid at not less than the rate specified in the approved program for his level of progress. Any employee listed on the payroll at a trainee rate who is not registered and participating in a training plan approved by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training shall be paid not less than the wage rate determined by the Secretary of Labor for the classification of work he actually performed. The contractor or subcontractor will be required to furnish the State highway department or a representative of the Wage-Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor written evidence of the certification of his program, the registration of the trainees, and the ratios and wage rates prescribed in that program. In the event the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training withdraws approval of a training program, the contractor will no longer be permitted to utilize trainees at less than the applicable predetermined rate for the work performed until an acceptable program is approved.

c. The utilization of apprentices, trainees and journeymen shall be in conformity with the equal employment opportunity requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended, and 29 CFR part 30.
