
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 633 - REQUIRED CONTRACT PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Federal-Aid Contracts (Appalachian Contracts)
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 633 - Required Contract Provisions, Appalachian Development Highway System and Local Access Roads Construction Contracts
####### Payrolls and payroll records

5.-a. Payrolls and basic records relating thereto will be maintained during the course of the work and preserved for a period of three years thereafter for all laborers, mechanics, apprentices, trainees, watchmen and guards working at the site of the work.

b. The payroll records shall contain the name, social security number and address of each such employee, his correct classification, rates of pay (including rates of contributions or costs anticipated of the types described in section 1(b)(2) of the Davis-Bacon Act), daily and weekly number of hours worked, deductions made and actual wages paid. Whenever the Secretary of Labor, pursuant to section VI, paragraph 3.b., has found that the wages of any laborer or mechanic include the amount of any costs reasonably anticipated in providing benefits under a plan or program described in section I(b)(2)(B) of the Davis-Bacon Act, the contractor shall maintain records which show that the commitment to provide such benefits is enforceable, that the plan or program is financially responsible, and that the plan or program has been communicated in writing to the laborers or mechanics affected, and records which show the costs anticipated or the actual cost incurred in providing such benefits.

c. The payrolls shall contain the following information:

1. The employee's full name, address and social security number and a notation indicating whether the employee does, or does not, normally reside in the labor area as defined in section II, paragraph 1.a. (The employee's full name and social security number need only appear on the first payroll on which his name appears. The employee's address need only be shown on the first submitted payroll on which the employee's name appears, unless a change of address necessitates a submittal to reflect the new address.)

2. The employee's classification.

3. Entries indicating the employee's basic hourly wage rate and, where applicable, the overtime hourly wage rate. The payroll should indicate separately the amounts of employee and employer contributions to fringe benefits funds and/or programs. Any fringe benefits paid to the employee in cash must be indicated. There is no prescribed or mandatory form for showing the above information on payrolls.

4. The employee's daily and weekly hours worked in each classification, including actual overtime hours worked (not adjusted).

5. The itemized deductions made and

6. The net wages paid.

d. The contractor will submit weekly a copy of all payrolls to the State highway department resident engineer. The copy shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the employer or his agent indicating that the payrolls are correct and complete, that the wage rates contained therein are not less than those determined by the Secretary of Labor and the classifications set forth for each laborer or mechanic conform with the work he performed. Submission of a weekly statement which is required under this contract by section VII, paragraph 2, and the Copeland Regulations of the Secretary of Labor (29 CFR part 3) and the filing with the initial payroll or any subsequent payroll of a copy of any findings by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to section VI, paragraph 3b, shall satisfy this requirement. The prime contractor shall be responsible for the submission of copies of payrolls of all subcontractors. The contractor will make the records required under the labor standards clauses of the contract available for inspection by authorized representatives of the State highway department, the Federal Highway Administration and the Department of Labor, and will permit such representatives to interview employees during working hours on the job.

e. The wages of labor shall be paid in legal tender of the United States, except that this condition will be considered satisfied if payment is made by negotiable check, on a solvent bank, which may be cashed readily by the employee in the local community for the full amount, without discount or collection charges of any kind. Where checks are used for payment, the contractor shall make all necessary arrangements for them to be cashed and shall given information regarding such arrangements.

f. No fee of any kind shall be asked or accepted by the contractor or any of his agents from any person as a condition of employment on the project.

g. No laborers shall be charged for any tools used in performing their respective duties except for reasonably avoidable loss or damage thereto.

h. Every employee on the work covered by this contract shall be permitted to lodge, board and trade where and with whom he elects and neither the contractor nor his agents, nor his employees shall, directly or indirectly, require as a condition of employment that an employee shall lodge, board or trade at a particular place or with a particular person.

i. No charge shall be made for any transportation furnished by the contractor, or his agents, to any person employed on the work.

j. No individual shall be employed as a laborer or mechanic on this contract except on a wage basis, but this shall not be construed to prohibit the rental of teams, trucks, or other equipment from individuals.

1. The contractor shall maintain a record of the total cost of all materials and supplies purchased for and incorporated in the work, and also of the quantities of those specific materials and supplies listed on Form PR-47 and in the units shown. Upon completion of the contract, this record, together with the final labor summary required in section VII, paragraph 3, hereof, shall be transmitted to the State highway department resident engineer for the project on Form PR-47 in accordance with instructions attached thereto, which will be furnished for this purpose upon request. The quantities for the listed items shall be reported separately for roadway and for structures over 20 feet long as measured along the centerline of the roadway.

2. The contractor shall become familiar with the list of specific materials and supplies contained in Form PR-47 prior to the commencement of work under this contract. Any additional materials information required will be solicited through revisions of Form PR-47 with attendant explanations.

3. Where subcontracts are involved the contractor shall submit either a single report covering work both by himself and all his subcontractors, or he may submit separate reports for himself and for each of his subcontractors.
