
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 635 - CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
##### Subpart A - Contract Procedures
###### § 635.104 Method of construction.

(a) Actual construction work shall be performed by contract awarded by competitive bidding; unless, as provided in § 635.104(b), the State DOT demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Division Administrator that some other method is more cost effective or that an emergency exists. The State DOT shall assure opportunity for free, open, and competitive bidding, including adequate publicity of the advertisements or calls for bids. The advertising or calling for bids and the award of contracts shall comply with the procedures and requirements set forth in §§ 635.112 and 635.114.

(b) Approval by the Division Administrator for construction by a method other than competitive bidding shall be requested by the State in accordance with subpart B of part 635 of this chapter. Before such finding is made, the State DOT shall determine that the organization to undertake the work is so staffed and equipped as to perform such work satisfactorily and cost effectively.

(c) In the case of a design-build project, the requirements of 23 CFR part 636 and the appropriate provisions pertaining to design-build contracting in this part will apply. However, no justification of cost effectiveness is necessary in selecting projects for the design-build delivery method.

(d) In the case of a CM/GC project, the requirements of subpart E and the appropriate provisions pertaining to the CM/GC method of contracting in this part will apply. However, no justification of cost effectiveness is necessary in selecting projects for the CM/GC delivery method.

(e) In the case of an ID/IQ project, the requirements of subpart F of this part and the appropriate provisions pertaining to the ID/IQ method of contracting in this part will apply. However, no justification of cost effectiveness is necessary in selecting projects for the ID/IQ delivery method.
