
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 635 - CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
##### Subpart A - Contract Procedures
###### ยง 635.109 Standardized changed condition clauses.
####### Significant changes in the character of work.

(3)(i) The engineer reserves the right to make, in writing, at any time during the work, such changes in quantities and such alterations in the work as are necessary to satisfactorily complete the project. Such changes in quantities and alterations shall not invalidate the contract nor release the surety, and the contractor agrees to perform the work as altered.

(ii) If the alterations or changes in quantities significantly change the character of the work under the contract, whether such alterations or changes are in themselves significant changes to the character of the work or by affecting other work cause such other work to become significantly different in character, an adjustment, excluding anticipated profit, will be made to the contract. The basis for the adjustment shall be agreed upon prior to the performance of the work. If a basis cannot be agreed upon, then an adjustment will be made either for or against the contractor in such amount as the engineer may determine to be fair and equitable.

(iii) If the alterations or changes in quantities do not significantly change the character of the work to be performed under the contract, the altered work will be paid for as provided elsewhere in the contract.

(iv) The term "significant change" shall be construed to apply only to the following circumstances:

(A) When the character of the work as altered differs materially in kind or nature from that involved or included in the original proposed construction; or

(B) When a major item of work, as defined elsewhere in the contract, is increased in excess of 125 percent or decreased below 75 percent of the original contract quantity. Any allowance for an increase in quantity shall apply only to that portion in excess of 125 percent of original contract item quantity, or in case of a decrease below 75 percent, to the actual amount of work performed.

(b) The provisions of this section shall be governed by the following:

(1) Where State statute does not permit one or more of the contract clauses included in paragraph (a) of this section, the State statute shall prevail and such clause or clauses need not be made applicable to Federal-aid highway contracts.

(2) Where the State transportation department has developed and implemented one or more of the contract clauses included in paragraph (a) of this section, such clause or clauses, as developed by the State transportation department may be included in Federal-aid highway contracts in lieu of the corresponding clause or clauses in paragraph (a) of this section. The State's action must be pursuant to a specific State statute requiring differing contract conditions clauses. Such State developed clause or clauses, however, must be in conformance with 23 U.S.C., 23 CFR and other applicable Federal statutes and regulations as appropriate and shall be subject to the Division Administrator's approval as part of the PS&E.

(c) In the case of a design-build project, State DOTs are strongly encouraged to use "suspensions of work ordered by the engineer" clauses, and may consider "differing site condition" clauses and "significant changes in the character of work" clauses which are appropriate for the risk and responsibilities that are shared with the design-builder.

(d) For ID/IQ projects, State DOTs are strongly encouraged to use "suspensions of work ordered by the engineer" clauses, and may consider "differing site condition" clauses and "significant changes in the character of work" clauses, as appropriate.
