
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 635 - CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
##### Subpart A - Contract Procedures
###### ยง 635.122 Participation in progress payments.

(a) Federal funds will participate in the costs to the State DOT of construction accomplished as the work progresses, based on a request for reimbursement submitted by State transportation departments. When the contract provisions provide for payment for stockpiled materials, the amount of the reimbursement request upon which participation is based may include the appropriate value of approved specification materials delivered by the contractor at the project site or at another designated location in the vicinity of such construction, provided that:

(1) The material conforms with the requirements of the plans and specifications.

(2) The material is supported by a paid invoice or a receipt for delivery of materials. If supported by a receipt of delivery of materials, the contractor must furnish the paid invoice within a reasonable time after receiving payment from the State DOT; and

(3) The quantity of a stockpiled material eligible for Federal participation in any case shall not exceed the total estimated quantity required to complete the project. The value of the stockpiled material shall not exceed the appropriate portion of the value of the contract item or items in which such materials are to be incorporated.

(b) The materials may be stockpiled by the contractor at a location not in the vicinity of the project, if the State DOT determines that because of required fabrication at an off-site location, it is not feasible or practicable to stockpile the materials in the vicinity of the project.

(c) In the case of a design-build project, the State DOT must define its procedures for making progress payments on lump sum contracts in the Request for Proposal document.

(d) In the case of a CM/GC project, the State DOT must define its procedures for making construction phase progress payments in either the solicitation or the construction services contract documents.
