
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 635 - CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
##### Subpart A - Contract Procedures
###### ยง 635.125 Termination of contract.

(a) All contracts exceeding $10,000 shall contain suitable provisions for termination by the State, including the manner by which the termination will be effected and the basis for settlement. In addition, such contracts shall describe conditions under which the contract may be terminated for default as well as conditions where the contract may be terminated because of circumstances beyond the control of the contractor.

(b) The State DOT prior to termination of a Federal-aid contract shall consult with and receive the concurrence of the Division Administrator. The extent of Federal-aid participation in contract termination costs, including final settlement, will depend upon the merits of the individual case. However, under no circumstances shall Federal funds participate in anticipated profit on work not performed.

(c) Except as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, normal Federal-aid plans, specifications, and estimates, advertising, and award procedures are to be followed when a State DOT awards the contract for completion of a terminated Federal-aid contract.

(d) When a State DOT awards the contract for completion of a Federal-aid contract previously terminated for default, the construction amount eligible for Federal participation on the project should not exceed whichever amount is the lesser, either:

(1) The amount representing the payments made under the original contract plus payments made under the new contract; or

(2) The amount representing what the cost would have been if the construction had been completed as contemplated by the plans and specifications under the original contract.

(e) If the surety awards a contract for completion of a defaulted Federal-aid contract or completes it by some other acceptable means, the FHWA will consider the terms of the original contract to be in effect and that the work will be completed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications included therein. No further FHWA approval or concurrence action will therefore be needed in connection with any defaulted Federal-aid contract awarded by a surety. Under this procedure, the construction amount eligible for Federal participation on the project should not exceed the amount representing what the cost would have been if the construction had been completed as contemplated by the plans and specifications under the original contract.
