
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 635 - CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
##### Subpart A - Contract Procedures
###### ยง 635.127 Agreement provisions regarding overruns in contract time.

(a) Each State transportation department (State DOT) shall establish specific liquidated damages rates applicable to projects in that State. The rates may be project-specific or may be in the form of a table or schedule developed for a range of project costs and/or project types. These rates shall, as a minimum, be established to cover the estimated average daily construction engineering (CE) costs associated with the type of work encountered on the project. The amounts shall be assessed by means of deductions, for each calendar day or workday overrun in contract time, from payments otherwise due to the contractor for performance in accordance with the contract terms.

(b) The rates established shall be subject to FHWA approval either on a project-by-project basis, in the case of project-specific rates, or on a periodic basis after initial approval where a rate table or schedule is used. In the latter case, the State DOT shall periodically review its cost data to ascertain if the rate table/schedule closely approximates, at a minimum, the actual average daily CE costs associated with the type and size of the projects in the State. Where rate schedules or other means are already included in the State DOT specifications or standard special provisions, verification by the State DOT that the amounts are adequate shall be submitted to the FHWA for review and approval. After initial approval by the FHWA of the rates, the State DOT shall review the rates at least every 2 years and provide updated rates, when necessary, for FHWA approval. If updated rates are not warranted, justification of this fact is to be sent to the FHWA for review and acceptance.

(c) The State DOT may, with FHWA concurrence, include additional amounts as liquidated damages in each contract to cover other anticipated costs of project related delays or inconveniences to the State DOT or the public. Costs resulting from winter shutdowns, retaining detours for an extended time, additional demurrage, or similar costs as well as road user delay costs may be included.

(d) In addition to the liquidated damages provisions, the State DOT may also include incentive/disincentive for early completion provisions in the contract. The incentive/disincentive amounts shall be shown separately from the liquidated damages amounts.

(e) Where there has been an overrun in contract time, the following principles shall apply in determining the cost of a project that is eligible for Federal-aid reimbursement:

(1) A proportional share, as used in this section, is the ratio of the final contract construction costs eligible for Federal participation to the final total contract construction costs of the project.

(2) Where CE costs are claimed as a participating item based upon actual expenses incurred or where CE costs are not claimed as a participating item, and where the liquidated damages rates cover only CE expenses, the total CE costs for the project shall be reduced by the assessed liquidated damages amounts prior to figuring any Federal pro rata share payable. If the amount of liquidated damages assessed is more than the actual CE totals for the project, a proportional share of the excess shall be deducted from the federally participating contract construction cost before determining the final Federal share.

(3) Where the State DOT is being reimbursed for CE costs on the basis of an approved percentage of the participating construction cost, the total contract construction amount that would be eligible for Federal participation shall be reduced by a proportional share of the total liquidated damages amounts assessed on the project.

(4) Where liquidated damages include extra anticipated non-CE costs due to contractor caused delays, the amount assessed shall be used to pay for the actual non-CE expenses incurred by the State DOT, and, if a Federal participating item(s) is involved, to reduce the Federal share payable for that item(s). If the amount assessed is more than the actual expenses incurred by the State DOT, a proportional share of the excess shall be deducted from the federally participating contract construction cost of the project before the Federal share is figured.

(f) When provisions for incentive/disincentive for early completion are used in the contract, a proportion of the increased project costs due to any incentive payments to the contractor shall be added to the federally participating contract construction cost before calculating the Federal share. When the disincentive provision is applicable, a proportion of the amount assessed the contractor shall be deducted from the federally participating contract construction cost before the Federal share calculation. Proportions are to be calculated in the same manner as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
