
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 635 - CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
##### Subpart F - Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (ID/IQ) Contracting
###### ยง 635.604 ID/IQ Requirements.
####### Procurement requirements.

(a)

(1) The contracting agency may procure the ID/IQ contract using applicable State or local competitive selection procurement procedures if those procedures:

(i) Comply with this section;

(ii) Are effective in securing competition; and

(iii) Do not conflict with applicable Federal laws and regulations.

(2) The solicitation for an ID/IQ contract shall state the procedures and criteria the contracting agency will use to award the ID/IQ contract.

(3) In addition to the requirements set forth under (a)(2), the ID/IQ contract, and any solicitation for an ID/IQ contract, must:

(i) Specify the period of the contract, including the number of optional contract extensions and the period for which the contracting agency may extend the contract under each optional extension.

(ii) Specify the basis, such as a published index, and procedure to be used for adjusting prices for optional contract extensions when optional contract extensions are included. Negotiated contract price adjustments for optional contract extensions are not eligible for Federal-aid participation.

(iii) Specify the estimated quantity or value of services the contracting agency anticipates it may acquire under the contract, either on an annual basis or over the entire initial term of the ID/IQ contract.

(iv) Include appropriate statements of work, specifications, or other descriptions that reasonably and accurately describe the general scope, nature, complexity, and purpose of the services the contracting agency will acquire under the contract.

(v) State the procedures that the contracting agency will use in issuing work orders, and, if multiple awards may be made, state the procedures and selection criteria that the contracting agency will use to provide awardees a fair opportunity to be considered for each work order.

(vi) Include the contracting agency's dispute resolution procedures available to awardees if multiple awards may be made.

(4) In addition to the requirements set forth under (a)(3), a JOC contract shall:

(i) Use a unit price book to contain or reference the information described under (a)(3)(iv).

(ii) Include the unit price book both in the contract and the solicitation.

(iii) Include prices adjusted by the contractor's adjustment factors or multipliers for each item in the unit price book.

(5) The contracting agency's procurement procedures may include selection of one or multiple contractors based on competitive low bid or best value selection under a single solicitation. For contracts awarded to multiple contractors under a single solicitation, the issuance of work orders must be based on lowest cost or lowest cost plus time to the government for the specified work. Work orders shall not be issued to contractors on a rotating basis or other non-competitive method.

(6) The sum of the duration of the initial ID/IQ contract and any optional contract extensions shall not exceed five years. The contracting agency may include a provision in the ID/IQ contract to exercise an option or options to extend the contract for a term or terms such that the duration of each optional contract extension does not exceed the initial duration of the ID/IQ contract.

(i) Prior to granting a contract extension, the contracting agency must receive concurrence from the Division Administrator.

(ii) For ID/IQ contracts where prevailing wages apply under 23 U.S.C. 113, the current prevailing wage rate determination as determined by the U.S. Department of Labor in effect on the date of the execution of the contract extension shall apply to work covered under the contract extension.

(iii) For ID/IQ contracts exceeding one year in duration, the contracting agency may use price escalation methods, such as referring to a published index, to adjust the payment for items of work in the issuance of work orders. Such price escalation methods, however, shall not be applied to items of work when those items are separately covered under commodity price escalation clauses in the ID/IQ contract.

(7) Contracting agency payment to a contractor to satisfy a minimum award provision that is not supported by eligible work is not eligible for Federal-aid participation.
