
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Payment Procedures
#### PART 172 - PROCUREMENT, MANAGEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION OF ENGINEERING AND DESIGN RELATED SERVICES
##### ยง 172.9 Contracts and administration.
###### Contract modification.

(e)(1) Contract modifications are required for any amendments to the terms of the existing contract that change the cost of the contract; significantly change the character, scope, complexity, or duration of the work; or significantly change the conditions under which the work is required to be performed.

(2) A contract modification shall clearly define and document the changes made to the contract, establish the method of payment for any adjustments in contract costs, and be in compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract and original procurement.

(3) A contracting agency shall negotiate contract modifications following the same procedures as the negotiation of the original contract.

(4) A contracting agency may add to a contract only the type of services and work included within the scope of services of the original solicitation from which a qualifications-based selection was made.

(5) For any additional engineering and design related services outside of the scope of work established in the original request for proposal, a contracting agency shall:

(i) Procure the services under a new solicitation;

(ii) Perform the work itself using contracting agency staff; or

(iii) Use a different, existing contract under which the services would be within the scope of work.

(6) Overruns in the costs of the work shall not automatically warrant an increase in the fixed fee portion of a cost plus fixed fee reimbursed contract. Permitted changes to the scope of work or duration may warrant consideration for adjustment of the fixed fee portion of cost plus fixed fee or lump sum reimbursed contracts.
