
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 637 - CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION AND APPROVAL
##### Subpart B - Quality Assurance Procedures for Construction
###### ยง 637.209 Laboratory and sampling and testing personnel qualifications.

(a) Laboratories.

(1) After June 29, 2000, all contractor, vendor, and STD testing used in the acceptance decision shall be performed by qualified laboratories.

(2) After June 30, 1997, each STD shall have its central laboratory accredited by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA.

(3) After June 29, 2000, any non-STD designated laboratory which performs IA sampling and testing shall be accredited in the testing to be performed by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA.

(4) After June 29, 2000, any non-STD laboratory that is used in dispute resolution sampling and testing shall be accredited in the testing to be performed by the AASHTO Accreditation Program or a comparable laboratory accreditation program approved by the FHWA.

(5) After September 24, 2009, laboratories that perform crash testing for acceptance of roadside hardware by the FHWA shall be accredited by a laboratory accreditation body that is recognized by the National Cooperation for Laboratory Accreditation (NACLA), is a signatory to the Asia Pacific Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (APLAC) Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRA), is a signatory to the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRA), or another accreditation body acceptable to FHWA.

(b) Sampling and testing personnel. After June 29, 2000, all sampling and testing data to be used in the acceptance decision or the IA program shall be executed by qualified sampling and testing personnel.

(c) Conflict of interest. In order to avoid an appearance of a conflict of interest, any qualified non-STD laboratory shall perform only one of the following types of testing on the same project: Verification testing, quality control testing, IA testing, or dispute resolution testing.
