
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 645 - UTILITIES
##### Subpart A - Utility Relocations, Adjustments, and Reimbursement
###### ยง 645.117 Cost development and reimbursement.
####### Credits.

(h)(1) Credit to the highway project will be required for the cost of any betterments to the facility being replaced or adjusted, and for the salvage value of the materials removed.

(2) Credit to the highway project will be required for the accrued depreciation of a utility facility being replaced, such as a building, pumping station, filtration plant, power plant, substation, or any other similar operational unit. Such accrued depreciation is that amount based on the ratio between the period of actual length of service and total life expectancy applied to the original cost. Credit for accrued depreciation shall not be required for a segment of the utility's service, distribution, or transmission lines.

(3) No betterment credit is required for additions or improvements which are:

(i) Required by the highway project,

(ii) Replacement devices or materials that are of equivalent standards although not identical,

(iii) Replacement of devices or materials no longer regularly manufactured with next highest grade or size,

(iv) Required by law under governmental and appropriate regulatory commission code, or

(v) Required by current design practices regularly followed by the company in its own work, and there is a direct benefit to the highway project.

(4) When the facilities, including equipment and operating facilities, described in ยง 645.117(h)(2) are not being replaced, but are being rehabilitated and/or moved, as necessitated by the highway project, no credit for accrued depreciation is needed.

(5) In no event will the total of all credits required under the provisions of this regulation exceed the total costs of adjustment exclusive of the cost of additions or improvements necessitated by the highway construction.
