
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 645 - UTILITIES
##### Subpart A - Utility Relocations, Adjustments, and Reimbursement
###### § 645.119 Alternate procedure.

(a) This alternate procedure is provided to simplify the processing of utility relocations or adjustments under the provisions of this regulation. Under this procedure, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the STD is to act in the relative position of the FHWA for reviewing and approving the arrangements, fees, estimates, plans, agreements, and other related matters required by this regulation as prerequisites for authorizing the utility to proceed with and complete the work.

(b) The scope of the STD's approval authority under the alternate procedure includes all actions necessary to advance and complete all types of utility work under the provisions of this regulation except in the following instances:

(1) Utility relocations and adjustments involving major transfer, production, and storage facilities such as generating plants, power feed stations, pumping stations and reservoirs.

(2) Utility relocations falling within the scope of § 645.113 (h), (i), and (j), and § 645.107(i) of this regulation.

(c) To adopt the alternate procedure, the STD must file a formal application for approval by the FHWA. The application must include the following:

(1) The STD's written policies and procedures for administering and processing Federal-aid utility adjustments. Those policies and procedures must make adequate provisions with respect to the following:

(i) Compliance with the requirements of this regulation, except as otherwise provided by § 645.119(b), and the provisions of 23 CFR part 645, subpart B, Accommodation of Utilities.

(ii) Advance utility liaison, planning, and coordination measures for providing adequate lead time and early scheduling of utility relocation to minimize interference with the planned highway construction.

(iii) Appropriate administrative, legal, and engineering review and coordination procedures as needed to establish the legal basis of the TD's payment; the extent of eligibility of the work under State and Federal laws and regulations; the more restrictive payment standards under § 645.103(d) of this regulation; the necessity of the proposed utility work and its compatibility with proposed highway improvements; and the uniform treatment of all utility matters and actions, consistent with sound management practices.

(iv) Documentation of actions taken in compliance with STD policies and the provisions of this regulation, shall be retained by the STD.

(2) A statement signed by the chief administrative officer of the STD certifying that:

(i) Federal-aid utility relocations will be processed in accordance with the applicable provisions of this regulation, and the STD's utility policies and procedures submitted under § 645.119(c)(1).

(ii) Reimbursement will be requested only for those costs properly attributable to the proposed highway construction and eligible for participation under the provisions of this regulation.

(d) The STD's application and any changes to it will be submitted to the FHWA for review and approval.

(e) After the alternate procedure has been approved, the FHWA may authorize the STD to proceed with utility relocation on a project in accordance with the certification, subject to the following conditions:

(1) The utility work must be included in an approved program.

(2) The STD must submit a request in writing for such authorization. The request shall include a list of the utility relocations to be processed under the alternate procedure, along with the best available estimate of the total costs involved.

(f) The FHWA may suspend approval of the alternate procedure when any FHWA review discloses noncompliance with the certification. Federal funds will not participate in relocation costs incurred that do not comply with the requirements under § 645.119(c)(1).
