
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 646 - RAILROADS
##### Subpart A - Railroad-Highway Insurance Protection
###### ยง 646.105 Contractor's public liability and property damage insurance.

(a) Contractors may be subject to liability with respect to bodily injury to or death of persons, and injury to, or destruction of property, which may be suffered by persons other than their own employees as a result of their operations in connection with construction of highway projects located in whole or in part within railroad right-of-way and financed in whole or in part with Federal funds. Protection to cover such liability of contractors shall be furnished under regular contractors' public liability and property damage insurance policies issued in the names of the contractors. Such policies shall be so written as to furnish protection to contractors respecting their operations in performing work covered by their contract.

(b) Where a contractor sublets a part of the work on any project to a subcontractor, the contractor shall be required to secure insurance protection in his own behalf under contractor's public liability and property damage insurance policies to cover any liability imposed on him by law for damages because of bodily injury to, or death of, persons and injury to, or destruction of, property as a result of work undertaken by such subcontractors. In addition, the contractor shall provide for and on behalf of any such subcontractors protection to cover like liability imposed upon the latter as a result of their operations by means of separate and individual contractor's public liability and property damage policies; or, in the alternative, each subcontractor shall provide satisfactory insurance on his own behalf to cover his individual operations.

(c) The contractor shall furnish to the State highway department evidence satisfactory to such department and to the FHWA that the insurance coverages required herein have been provided. The contractor shall also furnish a copy of such evidence to the railroad or railroads involved. The insurance specified shall be kept in force until all work required to be performed shall have been satisfactorily completed and accepted in accordance with the contract under which the construction work is undertaken.
