
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Payment Procedures
#### PART 190 - INCENTIVE PAYMENTS FOR CONTROLLING OUTDOOR ADVERTISING ON THE INTERSTATE SYSTEM
##### ยง 190.5 Bonus project claims.

(a) The State may claim payment by submitting a form PR-20 voucher, supported by strip maps which identify advertising control limits and areas excluded from the claim and form FHWA-1175, for the one-half percent bonus claim.

(b) The bonus payment computation is based on projects or portions thereof for which (1) the section of highway on which the project is located has been opened to traffic, and (2) final payment has been made. A bonus project may cover an individual project, a part thereof, or a combination of projects, on a section of an Interstate route.

(c) The eligible system mileage to be shown for a bonus project is that on which advertising controls are in effect. The eligible system mileage reported in subsequent projects on the same Interstate route section should cover only the additional system mileage not previously reported. Eligible project cost is the total participating cost (State and Federal share of approved preliminary engineering (PE), right-of-way (R-O-W), and construction) exclusive of any ineligible costs. The amount of the bonus payment is to be based on the eligible total costs of the supporting projects included in each claim.

(d) Progress vouchers for route sections on which additional one-half percent bonus payments are to be claimed are to be so identified, and the final claim for each route section is to be identified as the final voucher.
