
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 646 - RAILROADS
##### Subpart B - Railroad-Highway Projects
###### ยง 646.210 Classification of projects and railroad share of the cost.

(a) State laws requiring railroads to share in the cost of work for the elimination of hazards at railroad-highway crossings shall not apply to Federal-aid projects.

(b) Pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 130(b), and 49 CFR 1.48:

(1) Projects for grade crossing improvements are deemed to be of no ascertainable net benefit to the railroads and there shall be no required railroad share of the costs.

(2) Projects for the reconstruction of existing grade separations are deemed to generally be of no ascertainable net benefit to the railroad and there shall be no required railroad share of the costs, unless the railroad has a specific contractual obligation with the State or its political subdivision to share in the costs.

(3) On projects for the elimination of existing grade crossings at which active warning devices are in place or ordered to be installed by a State regulatory agency, the railroad share of the project costs shall be 5 percent.

(4) On projects for the elimination of existing grade crossings at which active warning devices are not in place and have not been ordered installed by a State regulatory agency, or on projects which do not eliminate an existing crossing, there shall be no required railroad share of the project cost.

(c) The required railroad share of the cost under ยง 646.210(b)(3) shall be based on the costs for preliminary engineering, right-of-way and construction within the limits described below:

(1) Where a grade crossing is eliminated by grade separation, the structure and approaches required to transition to a theoretical highway profile which would have been constructed if there were no railroad present, for the number of lanes on the existing highway and in accordance with the current design standards of the State highway agency.

(2) Where another facility, such as a highway or waterway, requiring a bridge structure is located within the limits of a grade separation project, the estimated cost of a theoretical structure and approaches as described in ยง 646.210(c)(1) to eliminate the railroad-highway grade crossing without considering the presence of the waterway or other highway.

(3) Where a grade crossing is eliminated by railroad or highway relocation, the actual cost of the relocation project, the estimated cost of the relocation project, or the estimated cost of a structure and approaches as described in ยง 646.210(c)(1), whichever is less.

(d) Railroads may voluntarily contribute a greater share of project costs than is required. Also, other parties may voluntarily assume the railroad's share.
