
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 646 - RAILROADS
##### Subpart B - Railroad-Highway Projects
###### ยง 646.216 General procedures.
####### Rights-of-way.,et seq.,et seq.

(c)(1) Acquisition of right-of-way by a State highway agency on behalf of a railroad or acquisition of nonoperating real property from a railroad shall be in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601) and applicable FHWA right-of-way procedures in 23 CFR, chapter I, subchapter H. On projects for the elimination of hazards of railroad-highway crossings by the relocation of railroads, acquisition or replacement right-of-way by a railroad shall be in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 4601

(2) Where buildings and other depreciable structures of the railroad (such as signal towers, passenger stations, depots, and other buildings, and equipment housings) which are integral to operation of railroad traffic are wholly or partly affected by a highway project, the costs of work necessary to functionally restore such facilities are eligible for participation. However, when replacement of such facilities is necessary, credits shall be made to the cost of the project for:

(i) Accrued depreciation, which is that amount based on the ratio between the period of actual length of service and total life expectancy applied to the original cost.

(ii) Additions or improvements which provide higher quality or increased service capability of the facility and which are provided solely for the benefit of the railroad.

(iii) Actual salvage value of the material recovered from the facility being replaced. Total credits to a project shall not be required in excess of the replacement cost of the facility.

(3) Where Federal funds participate in the cost of replacement right-of-way, there will be no charge to the project for the railroad's existing right-of-way being transferred to the State highway agency except when the value of the right-of-way being taken exceeds the value of the replacement right-of-way.
