
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 646 - RAILROADS
##### Subpart B - Railroad-Highway Projects
###### ยง 646.216 General procedures.
####### State-railroad agreements.

(d)(1) Where construction of a Federal-aid project requires use of railroad properties or adjustments to railroad facilities, there shall be an agreement in writing between the State highway agency and the railroad company.

(2) The written agreement between the State and the railroad shall, as a minimum include the following, where applicable:

(i) The provisions of this subpart and of 23 CFR part 140, subpart I, incorporated by reference.

(ii) A detailed statement of the work to be performed by each party.

(iii) Method of payment (either actual cost or lump sum),

(iv) For projects which are not for the elimination of hazards of railroad-highway crossings, the extent to which the railroad is obligated to move or adjust its facilities at its own expense,

(v) The railroad's share of the project cost,

(vi) An itemized estimate of the cost of the work to be performed by the railroad,

(vii) Method to be used for performing the work, either by railroad forces or by contract,

(viii) Maintenance responsibility,

(ix) Form, duration, and amounts of any needed insurance,

(x) Appropriate reference to or identification of plans and specifications,

(xi) Statements defining the conditions under which the railroad will provide or require protective services during performance of the work, the type of protective services and the method of reimbursement to the railroad, and

(xii) Provisions regarding inspection of any recovered materials.

(3) On work to be performed by the railroad with its own forces and where the State highway agency and railroad agree, subject to approval by FHWA, an agreement providing for a lump sum payment in lieu of later determination of actual costs may be used for any of the following:

(i) Installation or improvement of grade crossing warning devices and/or grade crossing surfaces, regardless of cost, or

(ii) Any other eligible work where the estimated cost to the State of the proposed railroad work does not exceed $100,000 or

(iii) Where FHWA finds that the circumstances are such that this method of developing costs would be in the best interest of the public.

(4) Where the lump sum method of payment is used, periodic reviews and analyses of the railroad's methods and cost data used to develop lump sum estimates will be made.

(5) Master agreements between a State and a railroad on an areawide or statewide basis may be used. These agreements would contain the specifications, regulations, and provisions required in conjunction with work performed on all projects. Supporting data for each project or group of projects must, when combined with the master agreement by reference, satisfy the provisions of ยง 646.216(d)(2).

(6) Official orders issued by regulatory agencies will be accepted in lieu of State-railroad agreements only where, together with supplementary written understandings between the State and the railroad, they include the items required by ยง 646.216(d)(2).

(7) In extraordinary cases where FHWA finds that the circumstances are such that requiring such agreement or order would not be in the best interest of the public, projects may be approved for construction with the aid of Federal funds, provided satisfactory commitments have been made with respect to construction, maintenance and the railroad share of project costs.
