
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 646 - RAILROADS
##### Subpart B - Railroad-Highway Projects
###### ยง 646.216 General procedures.
####### Authorizations.

(e)(1) The costs of preliminary engineering, right-of-way acquisition, and construction incurred after the date each phase of the work is included in an approved statewide transportation improvement program and authorized by the FHWA are eligible for Federal-aid participation. Preliminary engineering and right-of-way acquisition costs which are otherwise eligible, but incurred by a railroad prior to authorization by the FHWA, although not reimbursable, may be included as part of the railroad share of project cost where such a share is required.

(2) Prior to issuance of authorization by FHWA either to advertise the physical construction for bids or to proceed with force account construction for railroad work or for other construction affected by railroad work, the following must be accomplished:

(i) The plans, specifications and estimates must be approved by FHWA.

(ii) A proposed agreement between the State and railroad must be found satisfactory by FHWA. Before Federal funds may be used to reimburse the State for railroad costs the executed agreement must be approved by FHWA. However, cost for materials stockpiled at the project site or specifically purchased and delivered to the company for use on the project may be reimbursed on progress billings prior to the approval of the executed State-Railroad Agreement in accordance with 23 CFR 140.922(a) and ยง 646.218 of this part.

(iii) Adequate provisions must be made for any needed easements, right-of-way, temporary crossings for construction purposes or other property interests.

(iv) The pertinent portions of the State-railroad agreement applicable to any protective services required during performance of the work must be included in the project specifications and special provisions for any construction contract.

(3) In unusual cases, pending compliance with ยง 646.216(e)(2)(ii), (iii) and (iv), authorization may be given by FHWA to advertise for bids for highway construction under conditions where a railroad grants a right-of-entry to its property as necessary to prosecute the physical construction.
