
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 646 - RAILROADS
##### Subpart B - Railroad-Highway Projects
###### ยง 646.216 General procedures.
####### Construction.

(f)(1) Construction may be accomplished by:

(i) Railroad force account,

(ii) Contracting with the lowest qualified bidder based on appropriate solicitation,

(iii) Existing continuing contracts at reasonable costs, or

(iv) Contract without competitive bidding, for minor work, at reasonable costs.

(2) Reimbursement will not be made for any increased costs due to changes in plans:

(i) For the convenience of the contractor, or

(ii) Not approved by the State and FHWA.

(3) The State and FHWA shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to inspect materials recovered by the railroad prior to disposal by sale or scrap. This requirement will be satisfied by the railroad giving written notice, or oral notice with prompt written confirmation, to the State of the time and place where the materials will be available for inspection. The giving of notice is the responsibility of the railroad, and it may be held accountable for full value of materials disposed of without notice.

(4) In addition to normal construction costs, the following construction costs are eligible for participation with Federal-aid funds when approved by the State and FHWA:

(i) The cost of maintaining temporary facilities of a railroad company required by and during the highway construction to the extent that such costs exceed the documented normal cost of maintaining the permanent facilities.

(ii) The cost of stage or extended construction involving grade corrections and/or slope stabilization for permanent tracks of a railroad which are required to be relocated on new grade by the highway construction. Stage or extended construction will be approved by FHWA only when documentation submitted by the State establishes the proposed method of construction to be the only practical method and that the cost of the extended construction within the period specified is estimated to be less than the cost of any practicable alternate procedure.

(iii) The cost of restoring the company's service by adustments of existing facilities away from the project site, in lieu of and not to exceed the cost of replacing, adjusting or relocating facilities at the project site.

(iv) The cost of an addition or improvement to an existing railroad facility which is required by the highway construction.
