
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 646 - RAILROADS
##### Subpart B - Railroad-Highway Projects
###### ยง 646.218 Simplified procedure for accelerating grade crossing improvements.

(a) The procedure set forth in this section is encouraged for use in simplifying and accelerating the processing of single or multiple grade crossing improvements.

(b) Eligible preliminary engineering costs may include those incurred in selecting crossings to be improved, determining the type of improvement for each crossing, estimating the cost and preparing the required agreement.

(c) The written agreement between a State and a railroad shall contain as a minimum:

(1) Identification of each crossing location.

(2) Description of improvement and estimate of cost for each crossing location.

(3) Estimated schedule for completion of work at each location.

(d) Following programming, authorization and approval of the agreement under ยง 646.218(c), FHWA may authorize construction, including acquisition of warning device materials, with the condition that work at any particular location will not be undertaken until the proposed or executed State-railroad agreement under ยง 646.216(d)(2) is found satisfactory by FHWA and the final plans, specifications, and estimates are approved and with the condition that only material actually incorporated into the project will be eligible for Federal participation.

(e) Work programmed and authorized under this simplified procedure should include only that which can reasonably be expected to reach the construction stage within one year and be completed within two years after the initial authorization date.
