
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 646 - RAILROADS
##### Subpart B - Railroad-Highway Projects
###### § 646.220 Alternate Federal-State procedure.

(a) On other than Interstate projects, an alternate procedure may be used, at the election of the State, for processing certain types of railroad-highway work. Under this procedure, the State highway agency will act in the relative position of FHWA for reviewing and approving projects.

(b) The scope of the State's approval authority under the alternate procedure includes all actions necessary to advance and complete the following types of railroad-highway work:

(1) All types of grade crossing improvements under § 646.206(a)(3).

(2) Minor adjustments to railroad facilities under § 646.206(b).

(c) The following types of work are to be reviewed and approved in the normal manner, as prescribed elsewhere in this subpart.

(1) All projects under § 646.206(a) (1) and (2).

(2) Major adjustments to railroad facilities under § 646.206(b).

(d) Any State wishing to adopt the alternate procedure may file a formal application for approval by FHWA. The application must include the following:

(1) The State's written policies and procedures for administering and processing Federal-aid railroad-highway work, which make adequate provisions with respect to all of the following:

(i) Compliance with the provisions of title 23 U.S.C., title 23 CFR, and other applicable Federal laws and Executive Orders.

(ii) Compliance with this subpart and 23 CFR part 140, subpart I and 23 CFR part 172.

(iii) For grade crossing safety improvements, compliance with the requirements of 23 CFR part 924.

(2) A statement signed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the State highway agency certifying that:

(i) The work will be done in accordance with the applicable provisions of the State's policies and procedures submitted under § 646.220(d)(1), and

(ii) Reimbursement will be requested in only those costs properly attributable to the highway construction and eligible for Federal fund participation.

(e) When FHWA has approved the alternate procedure, it may authorize the State to proceed in accordance with the State's certification, subject to the following conditions:

(1) The work has been programmed.

(2) The State submits in writing a request for such authorization which shall include a list of the improvements or adjustments to be processed under the alternate procedure, along with the best available estimate of cost.

(f) The FHWA Regional Administrator may suspend approval of the certified procedure, where FHWA reviews disclose noncompliance with the certification. Federal-aid funds will not be eligible to participate in costs that do not qualify under § 646.220(d)(1).
