
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 650 - BRIDGES, STRUCTURES, AND HYDRAULICS
##### Subpart B - Erosion and Sediment Control on Highway Construction Projects
###### ยง 650.211 Guidelines.

(a) The FHWA adopts the AASHTO Highway Drainage Guidelines, Volume III, "Erosion and Sediment Control in Highway Construction," 1992,as guidelines to be followed on all construction projects funded under title 23, United States Code. These guidelines are not intended to preempt any requirements made by or under State law if such requirements are more stringent.

(b) Each State highway agency should apply the guidelines referenced in paragraph (a) of this section or apply its own guidelines, if these guidelines are more stringent, to develop standards and practices for the control of erosion and sediment on Federal-aid construction projects. These specific standards and practices may reference available resources, such as the procedures presented in the AASHTO "Model Drainage Manual," 1991.

(c) Consistent with the requirements of section 6217(g) of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-508, 104 Stat. 1388-299), highway construction projects funded under title 23, United States Code, and located in the coastal zone management areas of States with coastal zone management programs approved by the United States Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, should utilize "Guidance Specifying Management Measures for Sources of Nonpoint Source Pollution in Coastal Waters," 84-B-92-002, U.S. EPA, January 1993.State highway agencies should refer to this Environmental Protection Agency guidance document for the design of projects within coastal zone management areas.
