
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Payment Procedures
#### PART 192 - DRUG OFFENDER'S DRIVER'S LICENSE SUSPENSION
##### ยง 192.5 Certification requirements.

(a) Each State shall certify to the Secretary by January 1, 2023, that it meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 159 and this regulation. Subsequently, each State shall certify to the Secretary through its respective FHWA Division Administrator that it meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 159 and this regulation when there is a change to the State law, regulation, or binding policy relating to the suspension, revocation, issuance, or reinstatement or driver's licenses of drug offenders within 90 days of the effective date of a State legislative change that affects State compliance with this section.

(b) If the State believes it meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 159 and this regulation on the basis that it has enacted and is enforcing a law that suspends or revokes the driver's licenses of drug offenders, the certification shall contain a statement by the Governor of the State, or their designee, that the State has enacted and is enforcing a Drug Offender's Driver's License Suspension law that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 159(a)(3)(A). The certifying statement may be worded as follows: I, (Name of Governor or designee), (ADD TITLE on behalf of the) Governor of the (State or Commonwealth) of __, do hereby certify that the (State or Commonwealth) of __, has enacted and is enforcing a Drug Offender's Driver's License Suspension law that conforms to section 23 U.S.C. 159(a)(3)(A).

(c) If the State believes it meets the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 159(a)(3)(B) on the basis that it opposes a law that requires the suspension, revocation, or delay in issuance or reinstatement of the driver's licenses of drug offenders that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 159(a)(3)(A), the certification shall contain:

(1) A statement by the Governor of the State or their designee that the Governor is opposed to the enactment or enforcement of a law that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 159(a)(3)(A) and that the State legislature has adopted a resolution expressing its opposition to such a law. The certifying statement may be worded as follows: I, (Name of Governor or designee), (ADD TITLE on behalf of the) Governor of the (State or Commonwealth of __, do hereby certify that I am opposed to the enactment or enforcement of a law that conforms to 23 U.S.C. 159(a)(3)(A) and that the legislature of the (State or Commonwealth) of __, has adopted a resolution expressing its opposition to such a law.

(2) Until a State has been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 159(a)(3)(B) and this regulation, the certification shall include a copy of the resolution.

(d) The Governor or their designee shall submit an electronic copy of the certification to its respective FHWA Division Administrator. The FHWA Division Administrator shall retain an electronic copy and forward an electronic copy to both the FHWA Office of Safety and the FHWA Office of the Chief Counsel.

(e) Any changes to the certification or supplemental information necessitated by the review of the certifications as they are forwarded, State legislative changes that affects State compliance of this section, or changes in State enforcement activity shall be submitted within 90 days of the change being effective.
