
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 650 - BRIDGES, STRUCTURES, AND HYDRAULICS
##### Subpart C - National Bridge Inspection Standards (NBIS)
###### ยง 650.313 Inspection procedures.
####### NSTM inspection.

(f)(1) Identify the locations of NSTMs in the bridge files.

(i) A State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government may choose to demonstrate a member has system or internal redundancy such that it is not considered an NSTM. The entity may develop and submit a formal request for FHWA approval of procedures using a nationally recognized method to determine that a member has system or internal redundancy. FHWA will review the procedures for approval based upon conformance with the nationally recognized method. The request must include:

(A) Written policy and procedures for determining system or internal redundancy.

(B) Identification of the nationally recognized method used to determine system or internal redundancy. Nationally recognized means developed, endorsed and disseminated by a national organization with affiliates based in two or more States; or currently adopted for use by one or more State governments or by the Federal Government; and is the most current version.

(C) Baseline condition of the bridge(s) to which the policy is being applied.

(D) Description of design and construction details on the member(s) that may affect the system or internal redundancy.

(E) Routine inspection requirements for bridges with system or internally redundant members.

(F) Special inspection requirements for the members with system or internal redundancy.

(G) Evaluation criteria for when members should be reviewed to ensure they still have system and internal redundancy.

(ii) Inspect the bridge using the approved methods outlined in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(E) and (F) of this section.

(2) Perform hands-on inspections of NSTMs in accordance with the procedures developed in paragraph (g) of this section.

(3) Perform the first NSTM inspection for each bridge and for each bridge with rehabilitated NSTMs as soon as practical, but within 12 months of the bridge opening to traffic.
