
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 650 - BRIDGES, STRUCTURES, AND HYDRAULICS
##### Subpart C - National Bridge Inspection Standards (NBIS)
###### ยง 650.315 Inventory.
####### see,see

(a) Each State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government must prepare and maintain an inventory of all bridges subject to this subpart. Inventory data, as defined in ยง 650.305, must be collected, updated, and retained by the responsible State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government and submitted to FHWA on an annual basis or whenever requested. For temporary bridges open to traffic greater than 24 months, inventory data must be collected and submitted per this section. Inventory data must include element level bridge inspection data for bridges on the NHS collected in accordance with the "Manual for Bridge Element Inspection" (incorporated by reference,ยง 650.317). Specifications for collecting and reporting this data are contained in the "Specifications for the National Bridge Inventory" (incorporated by reference,ยง 650.317).

(b) For all inspection types, enter changes to the inventory data into the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government inventory within 3 months after the month when the field portion of the inspection is completed.

(c) For modifications to existing bridges that alter previously recorded inventory data and for newly constructed bridges, enter the inventory data into the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government inventory within 3 months after the month of opening to traffic.

(d) For changes in load restriction or closure status, enter the revised inventory data into the State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government inventory within 3 months after the month the change in load restriction or closure status of the bridge is implemented.

(e) Each State transportation department, Federal agency, or Tribal government must establish and document a process that ensures the time constraint requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section are fulfilled.
