
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 650 - BRIDGES, STRUCTURES, AND HYDRAULICS
##### Subpart H - Navigational Clearances for Bridges
###### ยง 650.805 Bridges not requiring a USCG permit.

(a) The FHWA has the responsibility under 23 U.S.C. 144(h) to determine that a USCG permit is not required for bridge construction. This determination shall be made at an early stage of project development so that any necessary coordination can be accomplished during environmental processing.

(b) A USCG permit shall not be required if the FHWA determines that the proposed construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or replacement of the federally aided or assisted bridge is over waters (1) which are not used or are not susceptible to use in their natural condition or by reasonable improvement as a means to transport interstate or foreign commerce and (2) which are (i) not tidal, or (ii) if tidal, used only by recreational boating, fishing, and other small vessels less than 21 feet in length.

(c) The highway agency (HA) shall assess the need for a USCG permit or navigation lights or signals for proposed bridges. The HA shall consult the appropriate District Offices of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers if the susceptibility to improvement for navigation of the water of concern is unknown and shall consult the USCG if the types of vessels using the waterway are unknown.

(d) For bridge crossings of waterways with navigational traffic where the HA believes that a USCG permit may not be required, the HA shall provide supporting information early in the environmental analysis stage of project development to enable the FHWA to make a determination that a USCG permit is not required and that proposed navigational clearances are reasonable.

(e) Since construction in waters exempt from a USCG permit may be subject to other USCG authorizations, such as approval of navigation lights and signals and timely notice to local mariners of waterway changes, the USCG should be notified whenever the proposed action may substantially affect local navigation.
