
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 657 - CERTIFICATION OF SIZE AND WEIGHT ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 657.15 Certification content.

The certification shall consist of the following elements and each element shall be addressed even though the response is negative:

(a) A statement by the Governor of the State, or an official designated by the Governor, that the State's vehicle weight laws and regulations governing use of the Interstate System conform to 23 U.S.C. 127.

(b) A statement by the Governor of the State, or an official designated by the Governor, that all State size and weight limits are being enforced on the Interstate System and those routes which, prior to October 1, 1991, were designated as part of the Federal-aid Primary, Urban, and Secondary Systems, and that the State is enforcing and complying with the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 127(d) and 49 U.S.C. 31112. Urbanized areas not subject to State jurisdiction shall be identified. The statement shall include an analysis of enforcement efforts in such areas.

(c) Except for Alaska and Puerto Rico, the certifying statements required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be worded as follows (the statements for Alaska and Puerto Rico do not have to reference 23 U.S.C. 127(d) in (c)(2), or include paragraph (c)(3) of this section):

(1) That all State laws and regulations governing vehicle size and weight are being enforced on those highways which, prior to October 1, 1991, were designated as part of the Federal-aid Primary, Federal-aid Secondary, or Federal-aid Urban Systems;

(2) That the State is enforcing the freeze provisions of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 127(d) and 49 U.S.C. 31112); and

(3) That all State laws governing vehicle weight on the Interstate System are consistent with 23 U.S.C. 127 (a) and (b).

(d) If this statement is made by an official other than the Governor, a copy of the document designating the official, signed by the Governor, shall also be included in the certification made under this part.

(e) A copy of any State law or regulation pertaining to vehicle sizes and weights adopted since the State's last certification and an analysis of the changes made.

(f) A report of State size and weight enforcement efforts during the period covered by the certification which addresses the following:

(1) Actual operations as compared with those forecast by the plan submitted earlier, with particular attention to changes in or deviations from the operations proposed.

(2) Impacts of the process as actually applied, in terms of changes in the number of oversize and/or overweight vehicles.
