
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 657 - CERTIFICATION OF SIZE AND WEIGHT ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 657.21 Procedure for reduction of funds.

(a) If it appears to the Federal Highway Administrator that a State has not submitted a certification conforming to the requirements of this regulation, or that the State is not adequately enforcing State laws respecting maximum vehicle size and weight, including laws applicable to vehicles using the Interstate System with weights or widths in excess of those provided under 23 U.S.C. 127, the Federal Highway Administrator shall make in writing a proposed determination of nonconformity, and shall notify the Governor of the State of the proposed determination by certified mail. The notice shall state the reasons for the proposed determination and inform the State that it may, within 30 days from the date of the notice, request a hearing to show cause why it should not be found in nonconformity. If the State informs the Administrator before the end of this 30-day period that it wishes to attempt to resolve the matter informally, the Administrator may extend the time for requesting a hearing. In the event of a request for informal resolution, the State and the Administrator (or designee) shall promptly schedule a meeting to resolve the matter.

(b) In all instances where the State proceeds on the basis of informal resolution, a transcript of the conference will be made and furnished to the State by the FHWA.

(1) The State may offer any information which it considers helpful to a resolution of the matter, and the scope of review at the conference will include, but not be limited to, legislative actions, including those proposed to remedy deficiencies, budgetary considerations, judicial actions, and proposals for specific actions which will be implemented to bring the State into compliance.

(2) The information produced at the conference may constitute an explanation and offer of settlement and the Administrator will make a determination on the basis of the certification, record of the conference, and other information submitted by the State. The Administrator's final decision together with a copy of the transcript of the conference will be furnished to the State.

(3) If the Administrator does not accept an offer of settlement made pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the State retains the right to request a hearing on the record pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, except in the case of a violation of section 127.

(c) If the State does not request a hearing in a timely fashion as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Highway Administrator shall forward the proposed determination of nonconformity to the Secretary. Upon approval of the proposed determination by the Secretary, the fund reduction specified by ยง 657.19 shall be effected.
