
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 200 - TITLE VI PROGRAM AND RELATED STATUTES - IMPLEMENTATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
##### ยง 200.9 State highway agency responsibilities.

(a) State assurances in accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(1) Title 49, CFR part 21 (Department of Transportation Regulations for the implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964) requires assurances from States that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity for which the recipient receives Federal assistance from the Department of Transportation, including the Federal Highway Administration.

(2) Section 162a of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973 (section 324, title 23 U.S.C.) requires that there be no discrimination on the ground of sex. The FHWA considers all assurances heretofore received to have been amended to include a prohibition against discrimination on the ground of sex. These assurances were signed by the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa. The State highway agency shall submit a certification to the FHWA indicating that the requirements of section 162a of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973 have been added to its assurances.

(3) The State highway agency shall take affirmative action to correct any deficiencies found by the FHWA within a reasonable time period, not to exceed 90 days, in order to implement Title VI compliance in accordance with State-signed assurances and required guidelines. The head of the State highway agency shall be held responsible for implementing Title VI requirements.

(4) The State program area officials and Title VI Specialist shall conduct annual reviews of all pertinent program areas to determine the effectiveness of program area activities at all levels.
