
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 200 - TITLE VI PROGRAM AND RELATED STATUTES - IMPLEMENTATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
##### ยง 200.9 State highway agency responsibilities.
###### State actions.

(b)(1) Establish a civil rights unit and designate a coordinator who has a responsible position in the organization and easy access to the head of the State highway agency. This unit shall contain a Title VI Equal Employment Opportunity Coordinator or a Title VI Specialist, who shall be responsible for initiating and monitoring Title VI activities and preparing required reports.

(2) Adequately staff the civil rights unit to effectively implement the State civil rights requirements.

(3) Develop procedures for prompt processing and disposition of Title VI and Title VIII complaints received directly by the State and not by FHWA. Complaints shall be investigated by State civil rights personnel trained in compliance investigations. Identify each complainant by race, color, sex, or national origin; the recipient; the nature of the complaint; the dates the complaint was filed and the investigation completed; the disposition; the date of the disposition; and other pertinent information. Each recipient (State) processing Title VI complaints shall be required to maintain a similar log. A copy of the complaint, together with a copy of the State's report of investigation, shall be forwarded to the FHWA division office within 60 days of the date the complaint was received by the State.
