
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 200 - TITLE VI PROGRAM AND RELATED STATUTES - IMPLEMENTATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
##### ยง 200.9 State highway agency responsibilities.
###### i.e.

(4) Develop procedures for the collection of statistical data (race, color, religion, sex, and national origin) of participants in, and beneficiaries of State highway programs,, relocatees, impacted citizens and affected communities.

(5) Develop a program to conduct Title VI reviews of program areas.

(6) Conduct annual reviews of special emphasis program areas to determine the effectiveness or program area activities at all levels.

(7) Conduct Title VI reviews of cities, counties, consultant contractors, suppliers, universities, colleges, planning agencies, and other recipients of Federal-aid highway funds.

(8) Review State program directives in coordination with State program officials and, where applicable, include Title VI and related requirements.

(9) The State highway agency Title VI designee shall be responsible for conducting training programs on Title VI and related statutes for State program and civil rights officials.

(10) Prepare a yearly report of Title VI accomplishments for the past year and goals for the next year.

(11) Beginning October 1, 1976, each State highway agency shall annually submit an updated Title VI implementing plan to the Regional Federal Highway Administrator for approval or disapproval.

(12) Develop Title VI information for dissemination to the general public and, where appropriate, in languages other than English.
