
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### ยง 658.11 Additions, deletions, exceptions, and restrictions.
###### Requests for deletion-Federal-aid primary-other than interstate.

(c)Requests for deletion should include the following information, where appropriate:

(1) Did the route segment prior to designation carry combination vehicles or 102-inch buses?

(2) Were truck restrictions in effect on the segment on January 6, 1983? If so, what types of restrictions?

(3) What is the safety record of the segment, including current or anticipated safety problems? Specifically, is the route experiencing above normal accident rates and/or accident severities? Does analysis of the accident problem indicate that the addition of larger trucks have aggravated existing accident problems?

(4) What are the geometric, structural or traffic operations features that might preclude safe, efficient operation? Specifically describe lane widths, sight distance, severity and length of grades, horizontal curvature, shoulder width, narrow bridges, bridge clearances and load limits, traffic volumes and vehicle mix, intersection geometrics and vulnerability of roadside hardware.

(5) Is there a reasonable alternate route available?

(6) Are there operational restrictions that might be implemented in lieu of deletion?
