
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### § 658.11 Additions, deletions, exceptions, and restrictions.
###### Deletions and use restrictions-Federal-aid interstate.

(d)(1) The deletion of, or imposition of use restrictions on, any specific segment of the Interstate Highway System on the National Network, except as otherwise provided in this part, must be approved by the FHWA. Such action will be initiated on the FHWA's own initiative or on the request of the Governor or the Governor's authorized representative of the State in which the Interstate segment is located. Requests from the Governor or the Governor's authorized representative shall be submitted along with justification for the deletion or restriction, in writing, to the appropriate FHWA Division Office for transmittal to Washington Headquarters.

(2) The justification accompanying a request shall be based on the following:

(i) Analysis of evidence of safety problems supporting the deletion or restriction as identified in § 658.11(c).

(ii) Analysis of the impact on interstate commerce.

(iii) Analysis and recommendation of any alternative routes that can safely accommodate commercial motor vehicles of the dimensions and configurations described in §§ 658.13 and 658.15 and serve the area in which such segment is located.

(iv) Evidence of consultation with the local governments in which the segment is located as well as the Governor or the Governor's authorized representative of any adjacent State that might be directly affected by such a deletion or restriction.

(3) Actions to ban all commercial vehicles on portions of the Interstate System not excepted under § 658.11(f) are considered deletions subject to the requirements of subsection (d) of this section.

(4) Reasonable restrictions on the use of Interstate routes on the National Network by STAA-authorized vehicles related to specific travel lanes of multi-lane facilities, construction zones, adverse weather conditions or structural or clearance deficiencies are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(5) Proposed deletions or restrictions will be published in theas an NPRM, except in the case of an emergency deletion as prescribed in § 658.11(e). The FHWA will consider the factors set out in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and the comments of interested parties. Any approval of deletion or restriction will be published as a final rule. A deletion of or restriction on a segment for reasons ascribable to dimensions of commercial motor vehicles described in either § 658.13 or § 658.15 shall result in a deletion or restriction for the purposes of both §§ 658.13 and 658.15.
