
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### ยง 658.13 Length.

(a) The length provisions of the STAA apply only to the following types of vehicle combinations:

(1) Truck tractor-semitrailer

(2) Truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer.

(b) The length provisions referred to in paragraph (a) of this section include the following:

(1) No State shall impose a length limitation of less than 48 feet on a semitrailer operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination.

(2) No State shall impose a length limitation of less than 28 feet on any semitrailer or trailer operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination.

(3) No State shall impose an overall length limitation on commercial vehicles operating in truck tractor-semitrailer or truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations.

(4) No State shall prohibit commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations.

(5) No State shall prohibit the operation of semitrailers or trailers which are 28feet long when operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination if such a trailer or semitrailer was in actual and lawful operation on December 1, 1982, and such combination had an overall length not exceeding 65 feet.

(c) State maximum length limits for semitrailers operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination and semitrailers and trailers operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination are subject to the following:

(1) No State shall prohibit the use of trailers or semitrailers of such dimensions as those that were in actual and lawful use in such State on December 1, 1982, as set out in appendix B of this part.

(2) If on December 1, 1982, State length limitations on a semitrailer were described in terms of the distance from the kingpin to rearmost axle, or end of semitrailer, the operation of any semitrailer that complies with that limitation must be allowed.

(d) No State shall impose a limit of less than 45 feet on the length of any bus on the NN.
