
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### ยง 658.13 Length.
###### Munitions carriers using dromedary equipment.

(6)A truck tractor equipped with a dromedary unit operating in combination with a semitrailer is considered to be specialized equipment, providing the combination is transporting Class 1 explosives and/or any munitions related security material as specified by the U.S. Department of Defense in compliance with 49 CFR 177.835. No State shall impose an overall length limitation of less than 75 feet on the combination while in operation.

(f) A truck tractor containing a dromedary box, deck, or plate in legal operation on December 1, 1982, shall be permitted to continue to operate, notwithstanding its cargo carrying capacity, throughout its useful life. Proof of such legal operation on December 1, 1982, shall rest upon the operator of the equipment.

(g) No State shall impose a limitation of less than 46 feet on the distance from the kingpin to the center of the rear axle on trailers or semitrailers used exclusively or primarily to transport vehicles in connection with motorsports competition events.

(h) Truck-tractors, pulling 2 trailers or semitrailers, used to transport custom harvester equipment during harvest months within the State of Nebraska may not exceed 81 feet 6 inches.
