
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### ยง 658.17 Weight.

(a) The provisions of the section are applicable to the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways and reasonable access thereto.

(b) The maximum gross vehicle weight shall be 80,000 pounds except where lower gross vehicle weight is dictated by the bridge formula.

(c) The maximum gross weight upon any one axle, including any one axle of a group of axles, or a vehicle is 20,000 pounds.

(d) The maximum gross weight on tandem axles is 34,000 pounds.

(e) No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be moved or operated on any Interstate highway when the gross weight on two or more consecutive axles exceeds the limitations prescribed by the following formula, referred to as the Bridge Gross Weight Formula:

(f) Except as provided herein, States may not enforce on the Interstate System vehicle weight limits of less than 20,000 pounds on a single axle, 34,000 pounds on a tandem axle, or the weights derived from the Bridge Formula, up to a maximum of 80,000 pounds, including all enforcement tolerances. States may not limit tire loads to less than 500 pounds per inch of tire or tread width, except that such limits may not be applied to tires on the steering axle. States may not limit steering axle weights to less than 20,000 pounds or the axle rating established by the manufacturer, whichever is lower.
