
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network

This appendix contains the weight and size provisions that were in effect on or before June 1, 1991 (July 6, 1991 for Alaska), for vehicles covered by 23 U.S.C. 127(d) (LCV's) and 49 U.S.C. app. 2311(j) (commercial motor vehicles (CMV's) with 2 or more cargo-carrying units). Weights and dimensions are "frozen" at the values shown here, which were in effect on June 1, 1991 (Alaska, July 6, 1991). All vehicles are listed by configuration type.

In the State-by-State descriptions, CMV combinations which can also be LCV's are identified with the letters "LCV" following the type of combination vehicle. The maximum allowable gross vehicle weight is given in this appendix (in thousands of pounds indicated by a "K"), as well as information summarizing the operational conditions, routes, and legal citations. The term "Interstate System" as used herein refers to the Dwight D. Eisenhower System of Interstate and Defense Highways.

Listed for each State by combination type is either:

1. The maximum cargo-carrying length (shown in feet); or

2. A notation that such vehicle is not allowed (indicated by a "NO").

CMV's are categorized as follows:

1. A CMV combination consisting of a truck tractor and two trailing units.

2. A CMV combination consisting of a truck tractor and three trailing units.

3. CMV combinations with two or more cargo-carrying units not included in descriptions 1 or 2.

In the following table the left number is the maximum cargo-carrying length measured in feet from the front of the first cargo unit to the rear of the last cargo unit. This distance is not to include length exclusive devices which have been approved by the Secretary or by any State. Devices excluded from length determination shall only include items whose function is related to the safe and efficient operation of the semitrailer or trailer. No device excluded from length determination shall be designed or used for carrying cargo. The right number is the maximum gross weight in thousands of pounds that the type of vehicle can carry when operating as an LCV on the Interstate System. For every State where there is a length or weight number in the table that follows, additional information is provided.

The following abbreviation convention is used throughout the narrative State-by-State descriptions for the captions OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS, ROUTES, and LEGAL CITATIONS: two letter State abbreviation, dash, "TT" for truck tractor, and 2 or 3 for two or three trailing units. For example, the phrase "Arizona truck tractor and 2 trailing units", would be noted as "AZ-TT2"; the phrase "Indiana truck tractor and 3 trailing units" would be noted as "IN-TT3", etc.
