
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### VEHICLE:

Vehicles shall not have fewer than six axles or more than nine axles. They shall be configured such that the shorter trailer shall be operated as the rear trailer, and the trailer with the heavier gross weight shall be operated as the front trailer. In the event that the shorter trailer is also the heavier, the load must be adjusted so that the front trailer is the longer and heavier of the two.

Vehicles shall have adequate power to maintain a minimum speed of 20 miles per hour on any grade over which the combination operates and can resume a speed of 20 miles per hour after stopping on any such grade.

Tires must conform to the standards in the Department of Public Safety's (DPS) Rules and Regulations Concerning Minimum Standards for the Operation of Commercial Motor Vehicles, at 8 CCR 1507-1 and C.R.S. 42-4-225 and 42-2-406.

Vehicles are required to have a heavy-duty fifth wheel and equal strength pick-up plates that meet the standards in the DPS Commercial Vehicle Rules. This equipment must be properly lubricated and located in a position that provides stability during normal operation, including braking. The trailers shall follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line.

Kingpins must be of a solid type and permanently fastened. Screw-out or folding type kingpins are prohibited.

Hitch connections must be of a no-slack type, preferably air-actuated ram.

Drawbar lengths shall be adequate to provide for the clearances required between the towing vehicle and the trailer(s) for turning and backing maneuvers.

Axles must be those designed for the width of the body of the trailer(s).

Braking systems must comply with the DPS Commercial Vehicle Rules and C.R.S. 42-4-220. Fast air-transmission and release valves must be provided on all trailer(s) and converter dolly axles. A brake force limiting valve, sometimes called a "slippery road" valve, may be provided on the steering axle.
