
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### VEHICLE:

A complete tandem-trailer combination shall consist of a truck tractor, first semitrailer, fifth-wheel converter dolly, and a second semitrailer. The converter dolly may be either a separate unit or an integral component of the first semitrailer. The width shall not exceed 102 inches and the height shall not exceed 13 feet 6 inches. A tractor used in the tandem-trailer operations shall be capable of hauling the maximum gross load to be transported by a permittee at a speed of not less than 40 miles per hour on all portions of the turnpike system excepting that portion of the roadway, as posted in 1988, between mileposts 234 and 238 where a minimum speed of 30 miles per hour will be permitted.

Every tandem-trailer combination shall be equipped with full air brakes or air-activated hydraulic brakes on the tractor and either air or electric brakes on the dolly and trailers.

A tractor, which will be used to haul a complete tandem-trailer combination with a total gross weight of 110,000 pounds or more, shall be equipped with tandem rear axles and driving power shall be applied to all wheels on both axles. When the above tandem-axle tractor is required, a tandem-axle dolly converter must be used.

Every tandem-trailer combination shall be equipped with emergency equipment that equals or exceeds both the equipment requirements and the performance standards cited in Chapter 316, Florida Statutes and subpart H "Emergency Equipment" of 49 CFR 393.95.

A converter (fifth-wheel) dolly used in the tandem-trailer operations may have either single or tandem axles, according to its total gross weight. In addition to the primary towbar(s), the dolly vehicle must be equipped with safety chains or cables for connecting the dolly to the lead semitrailer and must be adequate to prevent breakaway.

Lamps and Reflectors. Each tractor, trailer, and converter dolly in a tandem-trailer combination shall be equipped with electric lamps and reflectors mounted on the vehicle in accordance with Chapter 316, Florida Statutes, and subpart B "Lighting Devices, Reflectors and Electrical Equipment," of 49 CFR 393.9 through 49 CFR 393.33.

Coupling Devices. Coupling devices shall be so designed, constructed, and installed and the vehicles in a tandem-trailer combination shall equal or exceed both the equipment requirements and the performance standards established on 49 CFR 393.70, except that such devices shall be so designed and constructed as to ensure that any such combination traveling on a level, smooth paved surface will follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving from side to side over 2 inches to each side of the path of the vehicle when it is moving in a straight line. (For further information see Rule 14-62.002; 14-62.005; 14-62.006; 14-62.007; 14-62.008; 14-62.009; 14-62.010; 14-62.011; 14-62.012; 14-62.013; and 14-62.015, FAC)
