
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### ACCESS:

Turnpike access routes include all routes between the Turnpike and a motor freight terminal located within a 10-mile radius of each toll booth, except at the northeastern end of the Turnpike where a 20-mile radius is allowed.

OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: The operations of triple trailing unit combinations are governed by two sets of criteria: (1) The Turnpike and Turnpike access rules, and (2) the SVC rules which apply off of the Turnpike except in the case of vehicles operating under Turnpike access authority. The Turnpike and Turnpike access rules allow a maximum combination vehicle length of 119 feet overall. The SVC rules require "Triples" to have trailers of no more than 28.5 feet maximum length or a cargo-carrying length of approximately 95 feet.

The Turnpike and Turnpike access rules have no time-of-day travel restrictions or other special requirements.

The SVC rules have several operational conditions. SVC's cannot operate on holidays or during holiday weekends. SVC's cannot be dispatched or operated during adverse weather conditions. SVC's must travel in the right lane, except for passing, and the following distance is 100 feet for every 10 miles per hour. SVC permits can include any restrictions deemed necessary, including specific routes and hours, days, and/or seasons of operation. Rules and regulations can be promulgated regarding driver qualifications, vehicle equipment, and operational standards.
