
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### PERMIT:

A weight permit in accordance with Chapter 12 of the Nebraska Department of Roads (NDOR) Rules and Regulations is required for operating on the Interstate System with weight in excess of 80,000 pounds.

A length permit, in accordance with Chapters 8 or 11 of the NDOR Rules and Regulations, is required for two trailing unit combinations with a length of cargo-carrying units over 65 feet. Except for permits issued to carriers hauling seasonally harvested products in combinations with a cargo-carrying length greater than 65 feet but not more than 71.5 feet which may move as necessary to accommodate crop movement requirements, holders of length permits are subject to the following conditions.

Movement is prohibited on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays; when ground wind speed exceeds 25 miles per hour; when visibility is less than 800 feet; or when steady rain, snow, sleet, ice, or other conditions cause slippery pavement. Beginning November 15 until April 16 permission to move must be obtained from the NDOR Permit Office within 3 hours of movement. Beginning April 16 until November 15 permission to move must be obtained within 3 days of the movement.

Fees are charged for all permits. Length permits for combinations carrying seasonally harvested products are valid for 30 days and are renewable but may not authorize operation for more than 150 days per year.

All permits are subject to revocation if the terms are violated.
