
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### VEHICLE:

No trailer may be longer than 48 feet. If one trailer is 48 feet long, the other trailer cannot exceed 42 feet. Towed vehicles must not shift or sway more than 3 inches to right or left and must track in a straight line on a level, smooth paved highway. Vehicles must be able to accelerate and operate on a level highway at speeds which are compatible with other traffic and with the speed limits and must be able to maintain a minimum of 20 miles per hour on any grade on which they may operate. All vehicles must have safety chains on converter dollies. Vehicles must carry snow chains for each drive wheel.

Vehicle operations may be suspended in adverse weather and high winds, as determined by police or the Nevada DOT.

The shortest trailer must be in the rear of a combination unless it is heavier than the longer trailer.

Brakes must comply with all State and Federal requirements for commercial vehicles including automatic braking for separation of vehicles, parking brakes, and working lights.

Vehicles must not exceed posted speed limits and cannot operate on any highway on which they cannot at all times stay on the right side of the center line. All LCV's must keep a distance of at least 500 feet from each other.

Every full-sized truck or truck tractor used in a combination of vehicles must be equipped with at least the following emergency and safety equipment:

1. One fire extinguisher which meets "Classification B" of the National Fire Protection Association.

2. One spare light bulb for every electrical lighting device used on the rear of the last vehicle in a combination of vehicles.

3. One spare fuse for each different kind and size of fuse used in every vehicle in the combination of vehicles. If the electrical system of any vehicle in the combination contains any devices for protection of electrical circuits from overloading, other than fuses and circuit breakers which can be reset, one spare of each such device must be kept as emergency and safety equipment.

4. Any flares, reflectors or red electrical lanterns which meet State or Federal law or regulation.

Before operating a combination of vehicles on a highway of this State, the owner or operator of the combination shall certify to the Nevada DOT, on a form provided by it, that all vehicles and equipment in the combination meet the requirements of and will be operated in compliance with NAC 484.300 to 484.440, inclusive.

All axles except for steering axles and axles that weigh less than 10,000 pounds must have at least four tires unless the tire width of each tire on the axles is 14 inches or greater.
