
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### WEIGHT:

The following information pertains to tandem trailer combinations with either trailer more than 28.5 feet long but not more than 48 feet long. A nine-axle combination vehicle may not exceed a total maximum gross weight of 143,000 pounds. An eight-axle combination vehicle may not exceed a total maximum gross weight of 138,400 pounds. The maximum gross weight that may be carried upon any combination of units is limited by the maximum gross weight that can be carried upon the axles as follows. For a nine-axle combination: Drive axles-36,000 pounds, axles four/five-36,000 pounds, axles six/seven-27,000 pounds, and axles eight/nine-36,000 pounds. A minimum 12-foot axle spacing between the fifth and sixth axles is also required on the nine-axle LCV. For an eight-axle combination: Drive axles-36,000 pounds, axles four/five-36,000 pounds, sixth axle-22,400 pounds, and axles seven/eight-36,000 pounds. The eight-axle LCV has no minimum axle-spacing requirements. For gross weights in excess of 138,400 pounds the combination must include a tandem-axle dolly to meet the nine-axle requirements. Maximum permissible gross weight for B-train combination is 127,000 pounds.

When the gross weight of the two trailers in a tandem combination vary more than 20 percent, the heaviest of the two must be placed in the lead position.

For tandem trailer combinations in which neither trailing unit exceeds 28.5 feet in length the following maximum allowable weights apply: for a single axle-28,000 pounds (except that steering axles may not exceed 22,400 pounds), for a tandem axle-42,500 pounds, for a tri-axle-52,500 pounds. The gross weight may not exceed 100,000 pounds or the manufacturers gross weight rating, whichever is lower.
