
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### VEHICLE:

All vehicles must meet the requirements of applicable Federal and State statutes, rules, and regulations. Vehicles operating on highways under the jurisdiction of the NYSTA, except for the full length of I-84 and that portion of I-287 from Thruway exit 8 to I-95, must also meet the following additional requirements. The tractor manufacturer and the permittee shall certify to the NYSTA prior to the approval of the tractor that it is capable of hauling the maximum permissible gross load at a speed of not less than 20 miles per hour on all portions of the thruway system.

The brakes on any vehicle, dolly converter, or combination of vehicles shall comply with 49 CFR part 393 and, in addition, any vehicle or dolly converter shall meet the provisions of the New York State Traffic Law.

Tandem trailer operations shall be equipped, at a minimum, with emergency equipment as required by 49 CFR part 393, subpart H, as amended, tire chains from October 15 to May 1 of each year, a fire extinguisher with an aggregate rating of 20BC, and each trailer with specific lamps and reflectors.

All tractors certified by the NYSTA for use with tandem trailers will be assigned an identification number by the NYSTA which must be placed on the vehicle. The number must be at least 3 inches in height and visible to a person standing at ground level opposite the driver's position in the cab.

Axle Type. Tractors to be used for hauling 110,000 pounds or more shall be equipped with tandem rear axles, both with driving power. Tractors to be used for hauling 110,000 pounds or less may have a single drive axle. Tandem combinations using single wheel tires commonly referred to as "Super Singles" are required to use triple-axle tractors, dual-axle trailers, and dual-axle dollies.

Dollies. Every converter dolly certified on and after June 1, 1968, used to convert a semitrailer to a full trailer may have either single or tandem axles at the option of the permittee. Single-axle dollies may not utilize low profile tires. Combination vehicles with a gross weight in excess of 138,400 pounds must have a tandem-axle dolly to meet the nine-axle requirement. If the distance between two semitrailers is 10 feet or more, the dolly shall be equipped with a device or the trailers connected along the sides with suitable material to indicate they are in effect one unit. The devices or connection shall be approved by the NYSTA prior to use on a tandem trailer combination. The NYSTA tandem-trailer provisions require that converter dollies shall be coupled with one or more safety chains or cables to the frame or an extension of the frame of the motor vehicle by which it is towed. Each dolly converter must also be equipped with mud flaps. Tandem combinations using a sliding fifth wheel attached to the lead trailer, known as a "B-Train" combination, will require a separate Thruway Engineer Service approval prior to the initial tandem run. Special provisions regarding B-Trains will be reviewed at the time of the application or request for use on the Thruway.
