
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### WEIGHT:

The Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW) of any vehicle or combination of vehicles is determined by the Federal Bridge Formula, including the exception for two sets of tandems spaced 36 feet apart.

No single axle shall carry a gross weight in excess of 20,000 pounds. Axles spaced 40 inches or less apart are considered one axle. Axles spaced 8 feet or more apart are considered as individual axles. The gross weight of two individual axles may be restricted by the weight formula. Spacing between axles shall be measured from axle center to axle center.

Axles spaced over 40 inches but less than 8 feet apart shall not carry a gross weight in excess of 17,000 pounds per axle. The gross weight of three or more axles in a grouping is determined by the measurement between the extreme axle centers. During the spring breakup season or on otherwise posted highways, reductions in the above axle weights may be specified.

The weight in pounds on any one wheel shall not exceed one-half the allowable axle weight. Dual tires are considered one wheel.

The weight per inch of tire width shall not exceed 550 pounds. The width of tire shall be the manufacturer's rating.
