
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### VEHICLE:

The cargo length of a two trailing unit combination may not exceed 100 feet (when the power unit is a truck tractor) or 103 feet (when the power unit is a truck) when traveling on the NN or local highways designated by local authorities.

All hitches must be of a load-bearing capacity capable of bearing the weight of the towed vehicles. The towing vehicle must have a hitch commonly described as a fifth wheel or gooseneck design, or one that is attached to the frame.

The hitch on the rear of the vehicle connected to the towing vehicle must be attached to the frame of the towed vehicle. All hitches, other than a fifth wheel or gooseneck, must be of a ball and socket type with a locking device or a pintle hook.

The drawn vehicles shall be equipped with brakes and safety chains adequate to control the movement of, and to stop and hold, such vehicles. When the drawn vehicle is of a fifth wheel or gooseneck design, safety chains are not required.

In any truck or truck tractor and two trailer combination, the lighter trailer must always be operated as the rear trailer, except when the gross weight differential with the other trailer does not exceed 5,000 pounds.

The power unit shall have adequate power and traction to maintain a minimum speed of 15 miles per hour on all grades.
