
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### PERMIT:

No permits are required for GVW of 80,000 pounds or less. Single-trip permits are required for GVW exceeding 80,000 pounds. Weather restrictions (37-06-04-06, NDAC), weight distribution on trailers (37-06-04, NDAC), and signing requirements (37-06-04-05, NDAC) are applicable.

Movements of LCV's are prohibited when:

1. Road surfaces, due to ice, snow, slush, or frost present a slippery condition which may be hazardous to the operation of the unit or to other highway users;

2. Wind or other conditions may cause the unit or any part thereof to swerve, whip, sway, or fail to follow substantially in the path of the towing vehicle; or

3. Visibility is reduced due to snow, ice, sleet, fog, mist, rain, dust, or smoke.

The North Dakota Highway Patrol may restrict or prohibit operations during periods when in its judgment traffic, weather, or other safety conditions make travel unsafe.

The last trailer in any combination must have a "LONG LOAD" sign mounted on the rear. It must be a minimum of 12 inches in height and 60 inches in length. The lettering must be 8 inches in height with 1-inch brush strokes. The letters must be black on a yellow background.

Legal width-8 feet 6 inches on all highways.

Legal height-13 feet 6 inches.
