
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### PERMIT:

A special permit is required if the vehicle is over 102 inches wide, 14 feet high, or 65 feet in length including overhang. Tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combinations require a permit if over 75 feet in length, excluding an allowed 3-foot front overhang and a 4-foot rear overhang. For vehicles over 120 inches wide, 14 feet high, or 80 feet long or if any unit of the combination vehicle is over 60 feet in length, travel is restricted to daylight hours Monday through noon Saturday, except holidays and the day before and after holidays. Operators are restricted to daylight driving if the load overhang is more than 4 feet. A "Long Double Trailer Permit" issued by the OTC is required for operation of doubles in excess of 90 feet in length. Towing units and coupling devices shall have sufficient structural strength to ensure safe operation. Vehicles and coupling devices shall be so designed, constructed, and installed in a double as to ensure that any towed vehicles when traveling on a level, smooth paved surface will follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side of the path of the towing vehicle when the latter is moving in a straight line. Vehicle coupling devices and brakes shall meet the requirements of the Ohio Public Utilities Commission and Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations. The distance between the rearmost axle of a semitrailer and the front axle of the next semitrailer in a coupled double unit shall not exceed 12 feet 6 inches. In no event shall the distance between the semitrailers coupled in a double exceed 9 feet. Double and triple trailer combinations must be equipped with adequate, properly maintained spray-suppressant mud flaps on all axles except the steering axle. In the event that the gross weights of the trailers vary by more than 20 percent, they shall be coupled according to their gross weights with the heavier trailer forward. A minimum distance of 500 feet shall be maintained between double units and/or triple units except when overtaking and passing another vehicle. A double shall remain in the right-hand, outside lane except when passing or when emergency or work-zone conditions exist. When, in the opinion of the OTC, the weather conditions are such that operation of a double is inadvisable, the OTC will notify the permittee that travel is prohibited for a certain period of time.

Class A and B explosives; Class A poisons; and Class 1, 2, and 3 radioactive material cannot be transported in double trailer combinations. Other hazardous materials may be transported in one trailer of a double. The hazardous materials should be placed in the front trailer unless doing so will result in the second trailer weighing more than the first trailer.
