
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### VEHICLE:

All vehicles must meet the requirements of applicable Federal and State statutes, rules, and regulations. Vehicle and load shall not exceed 102 inches in width on the Interstate System and other four-lane divided highways. Maximum unit length of triple trailers is 29 feet. Truck tractors pulling triple trailers must have sufficient horsepower to maintain a minimum speed of 40 miles per hour on the level and 20 miles per hour on grades under normal operation conditions. Heavy-duty fifth wheels, pick-up plates equal in strength to the fifth wheel, solid kingpins, no-slack hitch connections, mud flaps and splash guards, and full-width axles are required on triple trailer combinations. All braking systems must comply with State and Federal requirements.

Multiple trailer combinations must be stable at all times during braking and normal operation. A multiple trailer combination when traveling on a level, smooth paved surface must follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line. Heavier trailers are to be placed to the front in multiple trailer combinations.
