
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### PERMIT:

An annual special combination permit is required for the operation of triple-trailer combinations on the Interstate System and other four-lane divided primary highways. This permit also authorizes such combinations to exceed 80,000 pounds on the Interstate System.

The permit holder must certify that the driver of a triple-trailer combination is qualified. Operators of triple-trailer combinations must maintain a 500-foot following distance and must drive in the right lane, except when passing or in an emergency.

Speed shall be reduced and extreme caution exercised when operating triple-trailer combinations under hazardous conditions, such as those caused by snow, wind, ice, sleet, fog, mist, rain, dust, or smoke. When conditions become sufficiently dangerous, as determined by the company or driver, operations shall be discontinued and shall not resume until the vehicle can be safely operated. The State may restrict or prohibit operations during periods when, in the State's judgment, traffic, weather, or other safety conditions make such operations unsafe or inadvisable.

Class A and B explosives; Class A poisons; Class 1, 2, and 3 radioactive material; and any other material deemed to be unduly hazardous by the U.S. Department of Transportation cannot be transported in triple-trailer combinations.

A fee is charged for the annual special authorization permit.

ROUTES: Same as the OK-TT2 combination.
