
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### Vehicle:

For all combinations, a semitrailer or trailer may neither be longer than nor weigh 3,000 pounds more than the trailer located immediately in front of it. Towbars longer than 19 feet must be flagged during daylight hours and lighted at night.

For combinations with a cargo-carrying length of 81.5 feet or less, neither trailer may exceed 45 feet, including load overhang. Vehicles may be 12 feet wide when hauling baled feed during daylight hours.

For combinations with a cargo-carrying length over 81.5 feet long, neither trailer may exceed 48 feet, including load overhang. Loading the rear of the trailer heavier than the front is not allowed. All axles except the steering axle require dual tires. Axles spaced 8 feet or less apart must weigh within 500 pounds of each other. The trailer hitch offset may not exceed 6 feet. The maximum effective rear trailer overhang may not exceed 35 percent of the trailer's wheelbase. The power unit must have sufficient power to maintain 40 miles per hour. A "LONG LOAD" sign measuring 18 inches high by 7 feet long with black on yellow lettering 10 inches high is required on the rear. Offtracking is limited to 8.75 feet for a turning radius of 161 feet.
