
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 658 - TRUCK SIZE AND WEIGHT, ROUTE DESIGNATIONS - LENGTH, WIDTH AND WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
##### Appendix C to Part 658 - Trucks Over 80,000 Pounds on the Interstate System and Trucks Over STAA Lengths on the National Network
###### VEHICLE:

While in transit, no trailer shall be positioned ahead of another trailer which carries an appreciably heavier load. An empty trailer shall not precede a loaded trailer. Vehicles shall be powered to operate on level terrain at speeds compatible with other traffic. They must be able to maintain a minimum speed of 20 miles per hour under normal operating conditions on any grade of 5 percent or less over which the combination is operated and be able to resume a speed of 20 miles per hour after stopping on any such grade, except in extreme weather conditions.

Oversize signs are required on vehicles in excess of 75 feet in length on two-lane highways.

A heavy-duty fifth wheel is required. All fifth wheels must be clean and lubricated with a light-duty grease prior to each trip. The fifth wheel must be located in a position which provides adequate stability. Pick-up plates must be of equal strength to the fifth wheel. The kingpin must be of a solid type and permanently fastened. Screw-out or folding-type kingpins are prohibited.

All hitch connections must be of a no-slack type, preferably a power-actuated ram. Air-actuated hitches which are isolated from the primary air transmission system are recommended.

The drawbar length should be the practical minimum consistent with the clearances required between trailers for turning and backing maneuvers.

Axles must be those designed for the width of the body.

All braking systems must comply with State and Federal requirements. In addition, fast air transmission and release valves must be provided on all semitrailer and converter-dolly axles. A brake force limiting valve, sometimes called a "slippery road" valve, may be provided on the steering axle. Anti-sail type mud flaps are recommended.

The use of single tires on any combination vehicle requiring an overweight or oversize permit shall not be allowed on single axles. A single axle is defined as one having more than 8 feet between it and the nearest axle or group of axles on the vehicle.

When traveling on a level, smooth paved surface, the trailing units must follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line. Each combination shall maintain a minimum distance of 500 feet from another commercial vehicle traveling in the same direction on the same highway. Loads shall be securely fastened to the transporter with material and devices of sufficient strength to prevent the load from becoming loose, detached, dangerously displaced, or in any manner a hazard to other highway users. The components of the load shall be reinforced or bound securely in advance of travel to prevent debris from being blown off the unit and endangering the safety of the traveling public. Any debris from the special permit vehicle deposited on the highway shall be removed by the permittee.

Bodily injury and property damage insurance is required before a special Transportation Permit will be issued.

In the event any claim arises against the State of Utah, Utah Department of Transportation, Utah Highway Patrol, or their employees from the operation granted under the permit, the permittee shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless each of them from such claim.
