
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Equal Employment Opportunity on Federal and Federal-Aid Construction Contracts (Including Supportive Services)
###### ยง 230.121 Reports.

(a) Employment reports on Federal-aid highway construction contracts not subject to "Hometown" or "Imposed" plan requirements.

(1) Paragraph 10c of the special provisions (appendix A) sets forth specific reporting requirements. FHWA Form PR-1391, Federal-Aid Highway Construction Contractors Annual EEO Report, (appendix C) and FHWA Form PR 1392, Federal-Aid Highway Construction Summary of Employment Data (including minority breakdown) for all Federal-Aid Highway Projects for month ending July 31st, 19-, (appendix D) are to be used to fulfill these reporting requirements.

(2) Form PR 1391 is to be completed by each contractor and each subcontractor subject to this part for every month of July during which work is performed, and submitted to the State highway agency. A separate report is to be completed for each covered contract or subcontract. The employment data entered should reflect the work force on board during all or any part of the last payroll period preceding the end of the month. The State highway agency is to forward a single copy of each report to the FHWA division office.

(3) Form PR 1392 is to be completed by the State highway agencies, summarizing the reports on PR 1391 for the month of July received from all active contractors and subcontractors. Three (3) copies of completed Forms PR 1392 are to be forwarded to the division office.

(b) Employment reports on direct Federal highway construction contracts not subject to "Hometown" or "Imposed" plan requirements. Forms PR 1391 (appendix C) and PR 1392 (appendix D) shall be used for reporting purposes as prescribed in ยง 230.121(a).

(c) Employment reports on direct Federal and Federal-aid highway construction contracts subject to "Hometown" or "Imposed" plan requirements.

(1) Reporting requirements for direct Federal and Federal-aid highway construction projects located in areas where "Hometown" or "Imposed" plans are in effect shall be in accordance with those issued by the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Federal Contract Compliance.

(2) In order that we may comply with the U.S. Senate Committee on Public Works' request that the Federal Highway Administration submit a report annually on the status of the equal employment opportunity program, Form PR 1391 is to be completed annually by each contractor and each subcontractor holding contracts or subcontracts exceeding $10,000 except as otherwise provided for under 23 U.S.C. 117. The employment data entered should reflect the work force on board during all or any part of the last payroll period preceding the end of the month of July.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) Reports on supportive services contracts. The State highway agency is to furnish copies of the reports received from supportive services contractors to the FHWA division office which will furnish a copy to the regional office.
