
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 660 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS (DIRECT FEDERAL)
##### Subpart A - Forest Highways
###### ยง 660.105 Planning and route designation.

(a) The FS will provide resource planning and related transportation information to the appropriate MPO and/or State Highway Agency (SHA) for use in developing metropolitan and statewide transportation plans pursuant to the provisions of part 450 of this title. Cooperators shall provide various planning (23 U.S.C. 134 and 135) information to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) for coordination with the FS.

(b) The management systems required under 23 U.S.C. 303 shall fulfill the requirement in 23 U.S.C. 204(a) regarding the establishment and implementation of pavement, bridge, and safety management systems for FHs. The results of bridge management systems and safety management systems on all FHs and results of pavement management systems for FHs on Federal-aid highways are to be provided by the SHAs for consideration in the development of programs under ยง 660.109 of this part. The FHWA will provide appropriate pavement management results for FHs which are not Federal-aid highways.

(c) The FHWA, in consultation with the FS, the SHA, and other cooperators where appropriate, will designate FHs.

(1) The SHA and the FS will nominate forest roads for FH designation.

(2) The SHA will represent the interests of all cooperators. All other agencies shall send their proposals for FHs to the SHA.

(d) A FH will meet the following criteria:

(1) Generally, it is under the jurisdiction of a public authority and open to public travel, or a cooperator has agreed, in writing, to assume jurisdiction of the facility and to keep the road open to public travel once improvements are made.

(2) It provides a connection between adequate and safe public roads and the resources of the NFS which are essential to the local, regional, or national economy, and/or the communities, shipping points, or markets which depend upon those resources.

(3) It serves:

(i) Traffic of which a preponderance is generated by use of the NFS and its resources; or

(ii) NFS-generated traffic volumes that have a substantial impact on roadway design and construction; or

(iii) Other local needs such as schools, mail delivery, commercial supply, and access to private property within the NFS.
