
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 660 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS (DIRECT FEDERAL)
##### Subpart A - Forest Highways
###### ยง 660.117 Funding, records and accounting.

(a) The Federal share of funding for eligible FH projects may be any amount up to and including 100 percent. A cooperator may participate in the cost of project development and construction, but participation shall not be required.

(b) Funds for FHs may be used for:

(1) Planning;

(2) Federal Lands Highway research;

(3) Preliminary and construction engineering; and

(4) Construction.

(c) Funds for FHs may be made available for the following transportation-related improvement purposes which are generally part of a transportation construction project:

(1) Transportation planning for tourism and recreational travel;

(2) Adjacent vehicular parking areas;

(3) Interpretive signage;

(4) Acquisition of necessary scenic easements and scenic or historic sites;

(5) Provisions for pedestrians and bicycles;

(6) Construction and reconstruction of roadside rest areas including sanitary and water facilities; and

(7) Other appropriate public road facilities as approved by the FHWA.

(d) Use of FH funds for right-of-way acquisition shall be subject to specific approval by the FHWA.

(e) Cooperators which administer construction of FH projects shall maintain their FH records according to 49 CFR part 18.

(f) Funds provided to the FHWA by a cooperator should be received in advance of construction procurement unless otherwise specified in a project agreement.
