
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 660 - SPECIAL PROGRAMS (DIRECT FEDERAL)
##### Subpart E - Defense Access Roads
###### ยง 660.519 Missile installations and facilities.
####### Restoration under 23 U.S.C. 210(h).

(b)(1) To implement 23 U.S.C. 210(h), DOD must make the determination that a contractor for a missile installation or facility did not include in the bid the cost of repairing damage caused to public highways by the operation of the contractor's vehicles and equipment. The FHWA must then make the determination that the State highway agency is, or has been, unable to prevent such damage by restrictions upon the use of the highways without interference with, or delay in, the completion of the contract. If these determinations are made, the Division Administrator will be authorized by the Washington Headquarters to reimburse the highway agency for the cost of the work necessary to keep the roads in a serviceable condition.

(2) Upon receipt of a damage claim, division office representatives accompanied by representatives of the agencies that made the original condition survey will inspect the roads on which damage is claimed. The Division Administrator shall then prepare an estimate of the cost of restoring the roads to original condition as well as any documented cost for extraordinary maintenance for which reimbursement has not been received. No allowance for upgrading the roads shall be included.
