
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Equal Employment Opportunity on Federal and Federal-Aid Construction Contracts (Including Supportive Services)
###### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 230 - Special Provisions
####### Personnel Actions.

6.Wages, working conditions, and employee benefits shall be established and administered, and personnel actions of every type, including hiring, upgrading, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, and termination, shall be taken without regard to race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. The following procedures shall be followed:

a. The contractor will conduct periodic inspections of project sites to insure that working conditions and employee facilities do not indicate discriminatory treatment of project site personnel.

b. The contractor will periodically evaluate the spread of wages paid within each classification to determine any evidence of discriminatory wage practices.

c. The contractor will periodically review selected personnel actions in depth to determine whether there is evidence of discrimination. Where evidence is found, the contractor will promptly take corrective action. If the review indicates that the discrimination may extend beyond the actions reviewed, such corrective action shall include all affected persons.

d. The contractor will promptly investigate all complaints of alleged discrimination made to the contractor in connection with his obligations under this contract, will attempt to resolve such complaints, and will take appropriate corrective action within a reasonable time. If the investigation indicates that the discrimination may affect persons other than the complainant, such corrective action shall include such other persons. Upon completion of each investigation, the contractor will inform every complainant of all of his avenues of appeal.
