
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Equal Employment Opportunity on Federal and Federal-Aid Construction Contracts (Including Supportive Services)
###### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 230 - Special Provisions
####### Records and Reports.

10.a. The contractor will keep such records as are necessary to determine compliance with the contractor's equal employment opportunity obligations. The records kept by the contractor will be designed to indicate:

(1) The number of minority and nonminority group members and women employed in each work classification on the project.

(2) The progress and efforts being made in cooperation with unions to increase employment opportunities for minorities and women (applicable only to contractors who rely in whole or in part on unions as a source of their work force),

(3) The progress and efforts being made in locating, hiring, training, qualifying, and upgrading minority and female employees, and

(4) The progress and efforts being made in securing the services of minority group subcontractors or subcontractors with meaningful minority and female representation among their employees.

b. All such records must be retained for a period of three years following completion of the contract work and shall be available at reasonable times and places for inspection by authorized representatives of the State highway agency and the Federal Highway Administration.

c. The contractors will submit an annual report to the State highway agency each July for the duration of the project, indicating the number of minority, women, and non-minority group employees currently engaged in each work classification required by the contract work. This information is to be reported on Form PR 1391. If on-the-job training is being required by "Training Special Provision", the contractor will be required to furnish Form FHWA 1409.
