
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 668 - EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Federal Agencies for Federal Roads
###### ยง 668.209 Eligibility of work.

(a) Permanent work must have prior program approval in accordance with paragraph (a) of ยง 668.215 unless such work is performed as emergency repairs.

(b) Emergency repairs, including permanent work performed incidental to emergency repairs, and all PE may begin immediately and do not need prior program approval. Reimbursement shall be contingent upon the work ultimately being approved in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of ยง 668.215.

(c) To qualify for emergency relief, the damaged or destroyed road or trail shall be designated as a Federal road.

(d) Replacement highway facilities are appropriate when it is not practical and economically feasible to repair or restore a damaged element to its preexisting condition. Emergency relief is limited to the cost of a new facility constructed to current design standards of comparable capacity and character to the destroyed facility. With respect to a bridge, a comparable facility is one which meets current geometric and construction standards for the type and volume of traffic it will carry during its design life.

(e) Emergency relief funds may participate to the extent of eligible repair costs when proposed projects contain betterments or other work not eligible for emergency funds.

(f) Work may include:

(1) Repair to, or reconstruction of, seriously damaged highway elements for a distance which would be within normal highway right-of-way limits, including necessary clearance of debris and other deposits in drainage courses, where such work would not be classed as heavy maintenance.

(2) Restoration of stream channels when the work is necessary for the satisfactory operation of the Federal road. The applicant must have responsibility and authority for maintenance and proper operation of stream channels restored.

(3) Betterments where clearly economically justified to prevent future recurring damage. Economic justification acceptable to the DFDE must weigh the cost of such betterments against the risk of eligible recurring damage and the cost of future repair.

(4) Actual PE and CE costs on approved projects.

(5) Emergency repairs.
