
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 680 - NATIONAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 680.118 Other Federal requirements.

All applicable Federal statutory and regulatory requirements apply to the EV charger projects. These requirements include, but are not limited to:

(a) All statutory and regulatory requirements that are applicable to funds apportioned under chapter 1 of Title 23, United States Code, and the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 apply. This includes the applicable requirements of 23, United States Code, and Title 23, Code of Federal Regulations, such as the applicable Buy America requirements at 23 U.S.C. 313 and Build America, Buy America Act (Pub. L. No 117-58, div. G sections 70901-70927).

(b) As provided at 23 U.S.C. 109(s)(2), projects to install EV chargers are treated as if the project is located on a Federal-aid highway. As a project located on a Federal-aid highway, 23 U.S.C. 113 applies and Davis Bacon Federal wage rate requirements included at subchapter IV of chapter 31 of Title 40, U.S.C., must be paid for any project funded with NEVI Formula Program funds.

(c) The American with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), and implementing regulations, apply to EV charging stations by prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability by public and private entities. EV charging stations must comply with applicable accessibility standards adopted by the Department of Transportation into its ADA regulations (49 CFR part 37) in 2006, and adopted by the Department of Justice into its ADA regulations (28 CFR parts 35 and 36) in 2010.

(d) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and implementing regulations, apply to this program to ensure that no person shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.

(e) All applicable requirements of Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Fair Housing Act), and implementing regulations, apply to this program.

(f) The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) program does not apply to the NEVI Formula Funds; however, the DBE program may apply to other programs apportioned under chapter 1 of Title 23, United States Code.

(g) The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act, and implementing regulations, apply to this program by establishing minimum standards for federally funded programs and projects that involve the acquisition of real property (real estate) or the displacement or relocation of persons from their homes, businesses, or farms.

(h) The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), the Council on Environmental Quality's NEPA implementing regulations, and applicable agency NEPA procedures apply to this program by establishing procedural requirements to ensure that Federal agencies consider the consequences of their proposed actions on the human environment and inform the public about their decision making for major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment.
