
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Right-of-Way and Environment
#### PART 751 - JUNKYARD CONTROL AND ACQUISITION
##### ยง 751.7 Definitions.
###### Junkyard.

(a)(1) A Junkyard is an establishment or place of business which is maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. This definition includes scrap metal processors, auto-wrecking yards, salvage yards, scrap yards, autorecycling yards, used auto parts yards and temporary storage of automobile bodies and parts awaiting disposal as a normal part of a business operation when the business will continually have like materials located on the premises. The definition includes garbage dumps and sanitary landfills. The definition does not include litter, trash, and other debris scattered along or upon the highway, or temporary operations and outdoor storage of limited duration.

(2) An Automobile Graveyard is an establishment or place of business which is maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts. Ten or more such vehicles will constitute an automobile graveyard.

(3) An Illegal Junkyard is one which was established or is maintained in violation of State law.

(4) A Nonconforming Junkyard is one which was lawfully established, but which does not comply with the provisions of State law or State regulations passed at a later date or which later fails to comply with State regulations due to changed conditions. Illegally established junkyards are not nonconforming junkyards.
