
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Right-of-Way and Environment
#### PART 751 - JUNKYARD CONTROL AND ACQUISITION
##### ยง 751.9 Effective control.

(a) In order to provide effective control of junkyards located within 1,000 feet of Interstate and Federal-aid primary highways, the State must:

(1) Require such junkyards located outside of zoned and unzoned industrial areas to be screened or located so as not to be visible from the main traveled way, or be removed from sight.

(2) Require the screening or removal of nonconforming junkyards within a reasonable time, but no later than 5 years after the date the junkyard becomes nonconforming unless Federal funds are not available in adequate amounts to participate in the cost of such screening or removal as provided in 23 U.S.C. 136(j).

(3) Prohibit the establishment of new junkyards unless they comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(4) Expeditiously require junkyards which are illegally established or maintained to conform to the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) Sanitary landfills as described herein need not be screened to satisfy requirements of Title 23, U.S.C., but landscaping should be required when the fill has been completed and operations have ceased, unless the landfill area is to be used for immediate development purposes. A sanitary landfill, for the purposes of this part, is a method of disposing of refuse on land without creating a nuisance or hazards to public health or safety by utilizing the principles of engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical area, to reduce it to the smallest practical volume, and to cover it with a layer of earth at the conclusion of each day's operation or at such more frequent intervals as may be necessary.

(c) The State shall have laws, rules, and procedures sufficient to provide effective control, to discover illegally established or maintained junkyards shortly after such occurrence, and to cause the compliance or removal of same promptly in accordance with State legal procedures.
