
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Right-of-Way and Environment
#### PART 751 - JUNKYARD CONTROL AND ACQUISITION
##### ยง 751.17 Federal participation.

(a) Federal funds may participate in 75 percent of the costs of control measures incurred in carrying out the provisions of this part including necessary studies for particular projects, and the employment of fee landscape architects and other qualified consultants.

(b) Where State control standards are more stringent than Federal control requirements along Interstate and primary highways, the FHWA may approve Federal participation in the costs of applying the State standards on a statewide basis. Where State standards require control of junkyards in zoned or unzoned industrial areas, Federal funds may participate only if such action will make an effective contribution to the character of the area as a whole and the cost is reasonable, but such projects should be deferred until the work in the areas where control is required has progressed well toward completion.

(c) Generally, only costs associated with the acquisition of minimal real property interests, such as easements or temporary rights of entry, necessary to accomplish the purposes of this part are eligible for Federal participation. The State may request, on a case-by-case basis, participation in costs of other interests beyond the minimum necessary, including fee title.

(d) Federal funds may participate in costs to correct the inadequacies of screening in prior control projects where the inadequacy is due to higher screening standards established in this part or due to changed conditions.

(e) Federal funds may participate in the costs of moving junk or scrap to a recycling place of business, or in the case of junk with little or no recycling potential, to a site for permanent disposal. In the latter case, reasonable land rehabilitation costs or fees connected with the use of such a disposal site are also eligible. In a case where the acquisition of a permanent disposal site by the State would be the most economical method of disposal, Federal funds may participate in the net cost (cost of acquisition less a credit after disposal) of a site obtained for this purpose.

(f) Federal funds may participate in control measure costs involved in any junkyard lawfully established or maintained under State law which is reclassified from conforming to nonconforming under revised State regulations and policy pursuant to this part.

(g) Federal funds may participate in the costs of acquisition of a dwelling in exceptional cases where such acquisition is found necessary and in the public interest, and where acquisition of the dwelling can be accomplished without resort to eminent domain.

(h) Federal funds shall not participate in:

(1) Costs associated with the control of illegal junkyards except for removal by State personnel on a force account basis or by contract, or in costs of controlling junkyards established after the effective date of the State's compliance law except where a conforming junkyard later becomes nonconforming due to changed conditions;

(2) Any costs associated with the acquisition of any dwelling or its related buildings if acquired through eminent domain in connection with the junkyard control program;

(3) Costs of acquisition of interests or rights as a measure for prohibition or control of the establishment of future junkyards;

(4) Costs of maintaining screening devices after they have been erected; or

(5) Costs of screening junk which has been or will be removed as a part of a junkyard control project.
