
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 230 - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
####### Minority business enterprise program.

VIII.FHPM 6-4-1-8 sets forth the FHWA policy regarding the minority business enterprise program. The implementation of this program should be explained by responding to the following:

A. Describe the method used for listing of minority contractors capable of, or interested in, highway construction contracting or subcontracting. Describe the process used to circulate names of appropriate minority firms and associations to contractors obtaining contract proposals.

B. Describe the State's procedure for insuring that contractors take action to affirmatively solicit the interest, capability, and prices of potential minority subcontractors.

C. Describe the State's procedure for insuring that contractors have designated liaison officers to administer the minority business enterprise program in an effective manner. Specify resource material, including contracts, which the State provides to liaison officers.

D. Describe the action the State has taken to meet its goals for prequalification or licensing of minority business. Include dollar goals established for the year, and describe what criteria or formula the State has adopted for setting such goals. If it is different from the previous year, describe in detail.

E. Outline the State's procedure for evaluating its prequalification/licensing requirements.

F. Identify instances where the State has waived prequalification for subcontractors on Federal-aid construction work or for prime contractors on Federal-aid contracts with an estimated dollar value lower than $100,000.

G. Describe the State's methods of monitoring the progress and results of its minority business enterprise efforts.
