
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 230 - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
####### General.

I.The State highway agency's (SHA) internal program is an integral part of the agency's total activities. It should include the involvement, commitment and support of executives, managers, supervisors and all other employees. For effective administration and implementation of the EEO Program, an affirmative action plan (AAP) is required. The scope of an EEO program and an AAP must be comprehensive, covering all elements of the agency's personnel management policies and practices. The major part of an AAP must be recognition and removal of any barriers to equal employment opportunity, identification of problem areas and of persons unfairly excluded or held back and action enabling them to compete for jobs on an equal basis. An effective AAP not only benefits those who have been denied equal employment opportunity but will also greatly benefit the organization which often has overlooked, screened out or underutilized the great reservoir of untapped human resources and skills, especially among women and minority groups.

Set forth are general guidelines designed to assist the State highway agencies in implementing internal programs, including the development and implementation of AAP's to ensure fair and equal treatment for all persons, regardless of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all employment practices.
