
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 230 - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
####### Responsibilities of the Affirmative Action Officer.

2.The responsibilities of the AA Officer should include, but not necessarily be limited to:

a. Developing the written AAP.

b. Publicizing its content internally and externally.

c. Assisting managers and supervisors in collecting and analyzing employment data, identifying problem areas, setting goals and timetables and developing programs to achieve goals. Programs should include specific remedies to eliminate any discriminatory practices discovered in the employment system.

d. Handling and processing formal discrimination complaints.

e. Designing, implementing and monitoring internal audit and reporting systems to measure program effectiveness and to determine where progress has been made and where further action is needed.

f. Reporting, at least quarterly, to the head of the SHA on progress and deficiencies of each unit in relation to agency goals.

g. In addition, consider the creation of:

(1) An EEO Advisory Committee, whose membership would include top management officials,

(2) An EEO Employee Committee, whose membership would include rank and file employees, with minority and female representatives from various job levels and departments to meet regularly with the AA officer, and

(3) An EEO Counseling Program to attempt informal resolution of discrimination complaints.
