
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 230 - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
####### Contents of an affirmative action plan.

B.The Affirmative Action Plan (AAP) is an integral part of the SHA's EEO program. Although the style and format of AAP's may vary from one SHA to another, the basic substance will generally be the same. The essence of the AAP should include, but not necessarily be limited to:

1. Inclusion of a strong agency policy statement of commitment to EEO.

2. Assignment of responsibility and authority for program to a qualified individual.

3. A survey of the labor market area in terms of population makeup, skills, and availability for employment.

4. Analyzing the present work force to identify jobs, departments and units where minorities and females are underutilized.

5. Setting specific, measurable, attainable hiring and promotion goals, with target dates, in each area of underutilization.

6. Making every manager and supervisor responsible and accountable for meeting these goals.

7. Reevaluating job descriptions and hiring criteria to assure that they reflect actual job needs.

8. Finding minorities and females who are qualified or qualifiable to fill jobs.

9. Getting minorities and females into upward mobility and relevant training programs where they have not had previous access.

10. Developing systems to monitor and measure progress regularly. If results are not satisfactory to meet goals, determine the reasons and make necessary changes.

11. Developing a procedure whereby employees and applicants may process allegations of discrimination to an impartial body without fear of reprisal.
