
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I - Public Transportation
#### PART 810 - MASS TRANSIT AND SPECIAL USE HIGHWAY PROJECTS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 810.4 Definitions.
####### parking facilities

(2) Fringe and transportation corridor parking facilities-those facilities which are intended to be used for the temporary storage of vehicles and which are located and designed so as to facilitate the safe and convenient transfer of persons traveling in such vehicles to and from high occupancy vehicles and/or public mass transportation systems including rail. The termincludes but is not limited to access roads, buildings, structures, equipment, improvements and interests in land.

(3) High occupancy vehicle-a bus or other motorized passenger vehicle such as a carpool or vanpool vehicle used for ridesharing purposes and occupied by a specified minimum number of persons.

(4) Highway traffic control devices-traffic control devices as defined by the currently approved "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways."

(5) Metropolitan Planning Organization-that organization designated as being responsible, together with the State, for carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 134, as required by 23 U.S.C. 104(f)(3), and capable of meeting the requirements of sections 3(e)(1), 5(1), 8 (a) and (c) and 9(e)(3)(G) of the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964, as amended, 49 U.S.C. 1602(e)(1), 1604(1), 1607 (a) and (c) and 1607a(e)(3)(G). This organization shall be the forum for cooperative transportation decisionmaking.

(6) Nonhighway public mass transit project-a project to develop or improve public mass transit facilities or equipment. A project need not be physically located or operated on a route designated as part of the Federal-aid urban system, but must be included in and related to a program for the development or improvement of an urban public mass transit system which includes the purchase and rehabilitation of passenger buses and rolling stock for fixed rail facilities, and the purchase, construction, reconstruction or improvement of fixed rail passenger operating facilities. Such projects may also include the construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation of passenger loading and unloading facilities for either bus or rail passengers.
