
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 230 - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
####### Issue written equal employment opportunity policy statement and affirmative action commitment.

1.To be effective, EEO policy provisions must be enforced by top management, and all employees must be made aware that EEO is basic agency policy. The head of the SHA (1) should issue a firm statement of personal commitment, legal obligation and the importance of EEO as an agency goal, and (2) assign specific responsibility and accountability to each executive, manager and supervisor.

The statement should include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following elements:

a. EEO for all persons, regardless of race, color, religion, sex or national origin as a fundamental agency policy.

b. Personal commitment to and support of EEO by the head of the SHA.

c. The requirement that special affirmative action be taken throughout the agency to overcome the effects of past discrimination.

d. The requirement that the EEO program be a goal setting program with measurement and evaluation factors similar to other major agency programs.

e. Equal opportunity in all employment practices, including (but not limited to) recruiting, hiring, transfers, promotions, training, compensation, benefits, recognition (awards), layoffs, and other terminations.

f. Responsibility for positive affirmative action in the discharge of EEO programs, including performance evaluations of managers and supervisors in such functions, will be expected of and shared by all management personnel.

g. Accountability for action or inaction in the area of EEO by management personnel.
