
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 230 - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
####### Recruitment and placement.

b.The AAP should include specific provisions for, but not necessarily limited to:

(1) Active recruitment efforts to support and supplement those of the central personnel agency or department, reaching all appropriate sources to obtain qualified employees on a nondiscriminatory basis.

(2) Maintaining contracts with organizations representing minority groups, women, professional societies, and other sources of candidates for technical, professional and management level positions.

(3) Ensuring that recruitment literature is relevant to all employees, including minority groups and women.

(4) Reviewing and monitoring recruitment and placement procedures so as to assure that no discriminatory practices exist.

(5) Cooperating with management and the central personnel agency on the review and validation of written tests and other selection devices.

(6) Analyzing the flow of applicants through the selection and appointment process, including an analytical review of reasons for rejections.

(7) Monitoring the placement of employees to ensure the assignment of work and workplace on a nondiscriminatory basis.
