
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter L - Federal Lands Highways
#### PART 970 - NATIONAL PARK SERVICE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - National Park Service Management Systems
###### ยง 970.210 Federal lands bridge management system (BMS).

In addition to the requirements provided in ยง 970.204, the BMS must meet the following requirements:

(a) The NPS shall have a BMS for the bridges which are under the NPS jurisdiction, funded under the FLHP, and required to be inventoried and inspected as prescribed by 23 U.S.C. 144.

(b) The BMS shall be designed to fit the NPS goals, policies, criteria, and needs using, as a minimum, the following components:

(1) A database and an ongoing program for the collection and maintenance of the inventory, inspection, cost, and supplemental data needed to support the BMS. The minimum BMS database shall include:

(i) Data described by the inventory section of the National Bridge Inspection Standards (23 CFR part 650, subpart C);

(ii) Data characterizing the severity and extent of deterioration of bridge elements;

(iii) Data for estimating the cost of improvement actions;

(iv) Traffic information including volumes and other pertinent information; and

(v) A history of conditions and actions taken on each bridge, excluding minor or incidental maintenance.

(2) A system for applying network level analytical procedures that are capable of analyzing data for all bridges in the inventory or any subset. The minimum analyses shall include:

(i) A prediction of performance and estimate of the remaining service life of structural and other key elements of each bridge, both with and without intervening actions; and

(ii) A recommendation for optimal allocation of limited funds through development of a prioritized list of candidate projects over predefined short and long term planning horizons.

(c) The BMS may include the capability to perform an investment analysis as appropriate, considering size of structure, traffic volume, and structural condition. The investment analysis may:

(1) Identify alternative strategies to improve bridge condition, safety and serviceability;

(2) Estimate the costs of any strategies ranging from maintenance of individual elements to full bridge replacement;

(3) Determine maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation strategies for bridge elements using life cycle cost analysis or a comparable procedure;

(4) Provide short and long term budget forecasting; and

(5) Evaluate the cultural and historical values of the structure.

(d) For any bridge in the inventory or subset thereof, BMS reporting requirements shall include, but are not limited to, percentage of non-deficient bridges.
