
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter L - Federal Lands Highways
#### PART 970 - NATIONAL PARK SERVICE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - National Park Service Management Systems
###### ยง 970.214 Federal lands congestion management system (CMS).

(a) For purposes of this section, congestion means the level at which transportation system performance is no longer acceptable due to traffic interference. For portions of the NPS transportation system outside the boundaries of TMAs, the NPS shall:

(1) Develop criteria to determine when a CMS is to be implemented for a specific transportation system; and

(2) Have CMS coverage for all transportation systems serving NPS facilities that meet minimum CMS needs criteria, as appropriate, funded through the FLHP.

(b) The NPS shall consider the results of the CMS when selecting congestion mitigation strategies that are the most time efficient and cost effective and that add value (protection/rejuvenation of resources, improved visitor experience) to the park and adjacent communities.

(c) In addition to the requirements provided in ยง 970.204, the CMS must meet the following requirements:

(1) For those NPS transportation systems that require a CMS, in both metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas, consideration shall be given to strategies that promote alternative transportation systems, reduce private automobile travel, and best integrate private automobile travel with other transportation modes.

(2) For portions of the NPS transportation system within transportation management areas (TMAs), the NPS transportation planning process shall include a CMS that meets the requirements of this section. By agreement between the TMA and the NPS, the TMA's CMS coverage may include the transportation systems serving NPS facilities, as appropriate. Through this agreement(s), the NPS may meet the requirements of this section.

(3) If congestion exists at a NPS facility within the boundaries of a TMA, and the TMA's CMS does not provide coverage of the portions of the NPS transportation facilities experiencing congestion, the NPS shall develop a separate CMS to cover those facilities. Approaches may include the use of alternate mode studies and implementation plans as components of the CMS.

(4) A CMS will:

(i) Identify and document measures for congestion (e.g., level of service);

(ii) Identify the causes of congestion;

(iii) Include processes for evaluating the cost and effectiveness of alternative strategies;

(iv) Identify the anticipated benefits of appropriate alternative traditional and nontraditional congestion management strategies;

(v) Determine methods to monitor and evaluate the performance of the multi-modal transportation system; and

(vi) Appropriately consider strategies, or combinations of strategies for each area, such as:

(A) Transportation demand management measures;

(B) Traffic operational improvements;

(C) Public transportation improvements;

(D) ITS technologies; and

(E) Additional system capacity.
