
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 230 - State Highway Agency Equal Employment Opportunity Programs
####### Program evaluation.

4.An internal reporting system to continually audit, monitor and evaluate programs is essential for a successful AAP. Therefore, a system providing for EEO goals, timetables, and periodic evaluations needs to be established and implemented. Consideration should be given to the following actions:

a. Defining the major objectives of EEO program evaluation.

b. The evaluation should be directed toward results accomplished, not only at efforts made.

c. The evaluation should focus attention on assessing the adequacy of problem identification in the AAP and the extent to which the specific action steps in the plan provide solutions.

d. The AAP should be reviewed and evaluated at least annually. The review and evaluation procedures should include, but not be limited to, the following:

(1) Each bureau, division or other major component of the agency should make annual and such other periodic reports as are needed to provide an accurate review of the operations of the AAP in that component.

(2) The AA Officer should make an annual report to the head of the SHA, containing the overall status of the program, results achieved toward established objectives, identity of any particular problems encountered and recommendations for corrective actions needed.

e. Specific, numerical goals and objectives should be established for the ensuing year. Goals should be developed for the SHA as a whole, as well as for each unit and each job category.
