
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter II - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter A - Procedures for State Highway Safety Programs
#### PART 1200 - UNIFORM PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Highway Safety Plan
###### ยง 1200.11 Contents.
####### Performance plan.

(b)A performance plan containing the following elements:

(1) A list of annual quantifiable and measurable highway safety performance targets that is data-driven, consistent with the Uniform Guidelines for Highway Safety Program and based on highway safety problems identified by the State during the planning process conducted under paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Performance measures developed by DOT in collaboration with the Governor's Highway Safety Association and others, beginning with the MAP-21 directed "Traffic Safety Performance Measures for States and Federal Agencies" (DOT HS 811 025), which are used as a minimum in developing the performance targets identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Beginning with grants awarded after fiscal year 2014, the performance measures common to the State's HSP and the State highway safety improvement program (fatalities, fatality rate, and serious injuries) shall be defined identically, as coordinated through the State strategic highway safety plan. At least one performance measure and performance target that is data driven shall be provided for each program area that enables the State to track progress, from a specific baseline, toward meeting the target (e.g., a target to "increase seat belt use from X percent in Year 1 to Y percent in Year 2," using a performance measure of "percent of restrained occupants in front outboard seating positions in passenger motor vehicles"). For each performance measure, the State shall provide:

(i) Documentation of current safety levels;

(ii) Quantifiable annual performance targets; and

(iii) Justification for each performance target that explains why the target is appropriate and data-driven.

(3) Additional performance measures, not included under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. For program areas where performance measures have not been jointly developed, a State shall develop its own performance measures and performance targets that are data-driven (e.g., distracted driving, bicycles). The State shall provide the same information as required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
