
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter II - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter A - Procedures for State Highway Safety Programs
#### PART 1200 - UNIFORM PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Highway Safety Plan
###### ยง 1200.11 Contents.
####### Highway safety strategies and projects.

(c)A description of-

(1) Each countermeasure strategy and project the State plans to implement to reach the performance targets identified in paragraph (b) of this section. At a minimum, the State shall describe one year of Section 402 and 405 countermeasure strategies and projects (which should include countermeasure strategies identified in the State strategic highway safety plan) and shall identify funds from other sources, including Federal, State, local, and private sector funds, that the State plans to use for such projects or use to achieve program area performance targets.

(2) The State's process for selecting the countermeasure strategies and projects described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to allow the State to meet the highway safety performance targets described in paragraph (b) of this section. At a minimum, the State shall provide an assessment of the overall traffic safety impacts of the strategies chosen and proposed or approved projects to be funded.

(3) The data and data analysis or other documentation supporting the effectiveness of proposed countermeasure strategies described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section (e.g., the State may include information on the cost effectiveness of proposed countermeasure strategies, if such information is available).

(4) The evidence-based traffic safety enforcement program to prevent traffic violations, crashes, and crash fatalities and injuries in areas most at risk for such incidents. At a minimum, the State shall provide for-

(i) An analysis of crashes, crash fatalities, and injuries in areas of highest risk;

(ii) Deployment of resources based on that analysis; and

(iii) Continuous follow-up and adjustment of the enforcement plan.

(5) The planned high visibility enforcement strategies to support national mobilizations.
