
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter II - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter A - Procedures for State Highway Safety Programs
#### PART 1200 - UNIFORM PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart G - Special Provisions for Fiscal Year 2013 Highway Safety Grants and Highway Safety Grants Under Prior Authorizations
###### ยง 1200.61 Fiscal year 2013 Section 405 grants.
####### NHTSAGrants@dot.gov

(a) For fiscal year 2013 grants authorized under 23 U.S.C. 405(b), (c), (d), (f) and (g), a State shall submit electronically its application as provided in ยง 1200.11(h) tono later than March 25, 2013.

(b) If a State's application contains incomplete information, NHTSA may request additional information from the State prior to making a determination of award for each component of the Section 405 grant program. Failure to respond promptly for request of additional information may result in a State's disqualification from one or more Section 405 grants for fiscal year 2013.

(c) After reviewing applications and making award determinations, NHTSA shall, in writing, distribute funds available for obligation under Section 405 to qualifying States and specify any conditions or limitations imposed by law on the use of the funds.

(d) Grant awards are subject to the availability of funds. If there are insufficient funds to award full grant amounts to qualifying States, NHTSA may release interim amounts and release the remainder, up to the State's proportionate share of available funds, when it becomes available in the fiscal year.

(e) The administration, reconciliation and noncompliance provisions of subparts D through F of this part apply to fiscal year 2013 grants awarded to qualifying States.
