
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter II - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter A - Procedures for State Highway Safety Programs
#### PART 1200 - UNIFORM PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANT PROGRAMS
##### Appendix D to Part 1200 - Certifications and Assurances for National Priority Safety Program Grants (23 U.S.C. 405)
###### Check at least 2 boxes below and fill in any,blanks under those checked boxes.

[]

&#x25A1; Motorcycle riding training course:

- Copy of official State document (e.g., law, regulation, binding policy directive, letter from the Governor) identifying the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues is provided as HSP attachment # ____.

- Document(s) showing the designated State authority approving the training curriculum that includes instruction in crash avoidance and other safety-oriented operational skills for both in-class and on-the-motorcycle is provided as HSP attachment # ____.

- Document(s) regarding locations of the motorcycle rider ____.

- Document showing that certified motorcycle rider training instructors teach the motorcycle riding training course is provided as HSP attachment # ____.

- Description of the quality control procedures to assess motorcycle rider training courses and instructor training courses and actions taken to improve courses is provided as HSP attachment # ____.

&#x2610; Motorcyclist awareness program:

- Copy of official State document (e.g., law, regulation, binding policy directive, letter from the Governor) identifying the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues is provided as HSP attachment # ____.

- Letter from the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety regarding the development of the motorcyclist awareness program is provided as HSP attachment # ____.

- Data used to identify and prioritize the State's motorcyclist safety program areas is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.

- Description of how the State achieved collaboration among agencies and organizations regarding motorcycle safety issues is provided as HSP attachment # or page #____.

- Copy of the State strategic communications plan is provided as HSP attachment # ____.

&#x2610; Reduction of fatalities and crashes involving motorcycles:

- Data showing the total number of motor vehicle crashes involving motorcycles is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.

- Description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing data is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.

&#x2610; Impaired driving program:

- Data used to identify and prioritize the State's impaired driving and impaired motorcycle operation problem areas is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.

- Detailed description of the State's impaired driving program is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.

- The State law or regulation defines impairment. Legal citation(s):

&#x2610; Reduction of fatalities and accidents involving impaired motorcyclists:

- Data showing the total number of reported crashes involving alcohol-impaired and drug-impaired motorcycle operators is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.

- Description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing data is provided as HSP attachment or page # ____.

- The State law or regulation defines impairment. Legal citation(s):
