
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Construction Contract Equal Opportunity Compliance Procedures
###### ยง 230.409 Contract compliance review procedures.
####### Onsite verification and interviews,Phase II,Action R-5

(e)() (). (1) Phase II of the review consists of the construction or home office site visit(s). During the initial meeting with the contractor, the following topics shall be discussed:

(i) Objectives of the visit;

(ii) The material submitted by the contractor, including the actual implementation of the employee referral source system and any discrepancies found in the material; and

(iii) Arrangements for the site tour(s) and employee interviews.

(2) The Compliance Specialist shall make a physical tour of the employment site(s) to determine that:

(i) EEO posters are displayed in conspicuous places in a legible fashion;

(ii) Facilities are provided on a nonsegregated basis (e.g. work areas, washroom, timeclocks, locker rooms, storage areas, parking lots, and drinking fountains);

(iii) Supervisory personnel have been oriented to the contractor's EEO commitments;

(iv) The employee referral source system is being implemented;

(v) Reported employment data is accurate;

(vi) Meetings have been held with employees to discuss EEO policy, particularly new employees; and

(vii) Employees are aware of their right to file complaints of discrimination.

(3) The Compliance Specialist should interview at least one minority, one nonminority, and one woman in each trade, classification, or occupation. The contractor's superintendent or home office manager should also be interviewed.

(4) The Compliance Specialist shall, on a sample basis, determine the union membership status of union employees on the site (e.g. whether they have permits, membership cards, or books, and in what category they are classified [e.g., A, B, or C]).

(5) The Compliance Specialist shall also determine the method utilized to place employees on the job and whether equal opportunity requirements have been followed.

(6) The Compliance Specialist shall determine, and the report shall indicate the following:

(i) Is there reasonable representation and utilization of minorities and women in each craft, classification or occupation? If not, what has the contractor done to increase recruitment, hiring, upgrading, and training of minorities and women?

(ii) What action is the contractor taking to meet the contractual requirement to provide equal employment opportunity?

(iii) Are the actions taken by the contractor acceptable? Could they reasonably be expected to result in increased utilization of minorities and women?

(iv) Is there impartiality in treatment of minorities and women?

(v) Are affirmative action measures of an isolated nature or are they continuing?

(vi) Have the contractor's efforts produced results?
