
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter II - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Guidelines
#### PART 1235 - UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
##### ยง 1235.5 Temporary removable windshield placards.

(a) The State system shall provide for the issuance of a temporary removable windshield placard, upon the application of a person with a disability which limits or impairs the ability to walk. The State system shall require that the issuing authority issue, upon request, one additional temporary removable windshield placard to applicants.

(b) The State system shall require that the application shall be accompanied by the certification of a licensed physician that the applicant meets the ยง 1235.2(b) definition of persons with disabilities which limit or impair the ability to walk. The certification shall also include the period of time that the physician determines the applicant will have the disability, not to exceed six months.

(c) The State system shall require that the temporary removable windshield placard is displayed in such a manner that it may be viewed from the front and rear of the vehicle by hanging it from the front windshield rearview mirror of a vehicle utilizing a parking space reserved for persons with disabilities. When there is no rearview mirror, the placard shall be displayed on the dashboard.

(d) The State system shall require that the temporary removable windshield placard shall be valid for a period of time for which the physician has determined that the applicant will have the disability, not to exceed six months from the date of issuance.
