
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter II - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Guidelines
#### PART 1240 - SAFETY INCENTIVE GRANTS FOR USE OF SEAT BELTS - ALLOCATIONS BASED ON SEAT BELT USE RATES
##### Subpart B - Determination of Allocations
###### § 1240.12 Determination of State seat belt use rate for calendar year 1998 and beyond.
####### Submission of survey information.

(b)(1) Each State shall submit to NHTSA, no later than March 1st after the calendar year during which a survey required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is conducted, the seat belt use rate determined under the survey, reported as a percentage to one decimal place, accompanied by a survey report, consisting of all documentation identified in § 1340.5 of chapter III of this title and summarizing the results of any analyses conducted under the survey.

(2) NHTSA will review a survey report submitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine whether the survey complies with all the requirements of § 1340 of chapter III of this title. Written notice of approval or disapproval of a survey will be sent to the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety within 30 days of receipt of the survey report. Any notice of disapproval will be accompanied by a detailed statement of the reasons for disapproval.

(3) A State may elect to submit a description of its proposed survey methodology, consisting of all documentation identified in § 1340.5 (a), (b) and (c)(3) of chapter III of this title for advance review, prior to conducting the survey.

(4) NHTSA will review a proposed survey methodology submitted under paragraph (b)(3) of this section and inform the Governor's Representative for Highway Safety in writing within 30 days of receipt of the proposed methodology whether the survey, if conducted in accordance with the methodology, would comply with all the requirements of § 1340 of chapter III of this title. Any notice indicating non-compliance will be accompanied by a detailed statement of the reasons.

(5) A State that submits a description of its proposed survey methodology under paragraph (b)(3) of this section continues to be required to submit all information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, after the State conducts its survey, for review under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
