
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Construction Contract Equal Opportunity Compliance Procedures
###### ยง 230.409 Contract compliance review procedures.
####### Corrective action plans.

(7)(i) When a contractor is required to show cause and the deficiencies cannot be corrected within the 30-day show cause period, a written corrective action plan may be accepted. The written corrective action plan shall specify clear unequivocal action by the contractor with time limits for completion. Token actions to correct cited deficiencies will not be accepted. (See Sample Corrective Action Plan-appendix B of this subpart)

(ii) When a contractor submits an acceptable written corrective action plan, the contractor shall be considered in compliance during the plan's effective implementation and submission of required progress reports. (Action R-15 and R-17).

(iii) When an acceptable corrective action plan is not agreed upon and the contractor does not otherwise show cause as required, the formal hearing process shall be recommended through appropriate channels by the compliance specialist immediately upon expiration of the 30-day show cause period. (Action R-16, R-18, R-19)

(iv) When a contractor, after having submitted an acceptable corrective action plan and being determined in compliance is subsequently determined to be in noncompliance based upon the contractor's failure to implement the corrective action plan, the formal hearing process must be recommended immediately. There are no provisions for reinstituting a show cause notice.

(v) When, however, a contractor operating under an acceptable corrective action plan carries out the provisions of the corrective action plan but the actions do not result in the necessary changes, the corrective action plan shall be immediately amended through negotiations. If, at this point, the contractor refuses to appropriately amend the corrective action plan, the formal hearing process shall be recommended immediately.
