
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Construction Contract Equal Opportunity Compliance Procedures
###### ยง 230.411 Guidance for conducting reviews.
####### Effect of exclusive referral agreements.

(e)(1) The OFCCP has established the following criteria for determining compliance when an exclusive referral agreement is involved;

(i) It shall be no excuse that the union, with which the contractor has a collective bargaining agreement providing for exclusive referral, failed to refer minority or female employees.

(ii) Discrimination in referral for employment, even if pursuant to provisions of a collective bargaining agreement, is prohibited by the National Labor Relations Act and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended.

(iii) Contractors and subcontractors have a responsibility to provide equal opportunity if they want to participate in federally involved contracts. To the extent they have delegated the responsibility for some of their employment practices to some other organization or agency which prevents them from meeting their obligations, these contractors must be found in noncompliance.

(2) If the contractor indicates that union action or inaction is a proximate cause of the contractor's failure to provide equal opportunity, a finding of noncompliance will be made and a show cause notice issued, and:

(i) The contractor will be formally directed to comply with the equal opportunity requirements.

(ii) Reviews of other contractors with projects within the jurisdiction of the applicable union locals shall be scheduled.

(iii) If the reviews indicate a pattern and/or practice of discrimination on the part of specific union locals, each contractor in the area shall be informed of the criteria outlined in ยง 230.411(e)(1) of this section. Furthermore, the FHWA Washington Headquarters, OCR, shall be provided with full documentary evidence to support the discriminatory pattern indicated.

(iv) In the event the union referral practices prevent the contractor from meeting the equal opportunity requirements pursuant to the E.O. 11246, as amended, such contractor shall immediately notify the SHA.
