
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Construction Contract Equal Opportunity Compliance Procedures
###### ยง 230.413 Review reports.
####### i.e.

(iii) Basis for the review,, area work force, project work force, home office work force, and target area work force.

(iv) Identification of Federal or Federal-aid contract(s).

(v) Date of review.

(vi) Employment data by job craft, classification, or occupation by race and sex in accordance with (iii) above. This shall be the data verified during the onsite.

(vii) Identification of local unions involved with contractor, when applicable.

(viii) Determination of compliance status: compliance or noncompliance.

(ix) Copy of show cause notice or compliance notification sent to contractor.

(x) Name of the Compliance Specialist who conducted the review and whether that person is a State, division or regional Compliance Specialist.

(xi) Concurrences at appropriate levels.

(5) Each contractor (joint venture is one contractor) will be reported separately. When a project review is conducted, the reports should be attached, with the initial report being that of the prime contractor followed by the reports of each subcontractor.

(6) Each review level is responsible for ensuring that required information is contained in the report.

(7) When a project review is conducted, the project work force shall be reported. When an areawide review is conducted (all Federal-aid, Federal, and non-Federal projects in an area), then areawide work force shall be reported. When a home office review is conducted, only home office work force shall be reported. Other information required by regional offices shall be detached before forwarding the reports to the Washington Headquarters, OCR.

(8) The Washington Headquarters, OCR, shall be provided all of the following:

(i) The compliance review report required by ยง 230.413(a)(4).

(ii) Corrective action plans.

(iii) Show cause notices or compliance notifications.

(iv) Show cause recissions.
