
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Construction Contract Equal Opportunity Compliance Procedures
###### ยง 230.415 Consolidated compliance reviews.
####### Reporting,Composite report.

(d)-(1)A final composite report shall be submitted as a complete package to the Washington Headquarters, OCR, within 45 days after the review period and shall consist of the following:

(i) Compliance review report, for each contractor and subcontractor with accompanying show cause notice or compliance notification.

(ii) Work force data to show the aggregate employment of all contractors in the target area.

(iii) A narrative summary of findings and recommendations to include the following:

(A) A summary of highway construction employment in the target area by craft, race, and sex. This summary should explore possible patterns of discrimination or underutilization and possible causes, and should compare the utilization of minorities and females on contractor's work forces to the civilian labor force percent for minorities and females in the target area.

(B) If the target area is a plan area, a narrative summary of the plan's effectiveness with an identification of part I and part II crafts. This summary shall discuss possible differences in minority and female utilization between part I and part II crafts, documenting any inferences drawn from such comparisons.

(C) If applicable, discuss local labor unions' membership and/or referral practices that impact on the utilization of minorities and females in the target area. Complete and current copies of all collective bargaining agreements and copies of EEO-3, Local Union Reports, for all appropriate unions shall accompany the composite report.

(D) Any other appropriate data, analyses, or information deemed necessary for a complete picture of the areawide employment.

(E) Considering the information compiled from the summaries listed above, make concrete recommendations on possible avenues for correcting problems uncovered by the analyses.
