
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Construction Contract Equal Opportunity Compliance Procedures
###### Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 230 - Sample Show Cause Notice

As a result of the review of your (Project Number) project located at (Project Location) conducted on (Date) by (Reviewing Agency), it is our determination that you are not in compliance with your equal opportunity requirements and that good faith efforts have not been made to meet your equal opportunity requirements in the following areas:

List of Deficiencies

1.

2.

3.

Your failure to take the contractually required affirmative action has contributed to the unacceptable level of minority and female employment in your operations, particularly in the semiskilled and skilled categories of employees.

The Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR 60) implementing Executive Order 11246, as amended, are applicable to your Federal-aid highway construction contract and are controlling in this matter (see Required Contract Provisions, Form PR-1273, Clause II). Section 60-1.20(b) of these regulations provides that when equal opportunity deficiencies exist, it is necessary that you make a commitment in writing to correct such deficiencies before you may be found in compliance. The commitment must include the specific action which you propose to take to correct each deficiency and the date of completion of such action. The time period allotted shall be no longer than the minimum period necessary to effect the necessary correction. In accordance with instructions issued by the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), U.S. Department of Labor, your written commitment must also provide for the submission of monthly progress reports which shall include a head count of minority and female representation at each level of each trade and a list of minority employees.

You are specifically advised that making the commitment discussed above will not preclude a further determination of noncompliance upon a finding that the commitment is not sufficient to achieve compliance.

We will hold a compliance conference at ________________(Address) at ________________ (Time) on ________________(Date) for you to submit and discuss your written commitment. If your written commitment is acceptable and if the commitment is sufficient to achieve compliance, you will be found in compliance during the effective implementation of that commitment. You are cautioned, however, that our determination is subject to review by the Federal Highway Administration, the Department of Transportation, and OFCCP and may be disapproved if your written commitment is not considered sufficient to achieve compliance.

If you indicate either directly or by inaction that you do not wish to participate in the scheduled conference and do not otherwise show cause within 30 days from receipt of this notice why enforcement proceedings should not be instituted, this agency will commence enforcement proceedings under Executive Order 11246, as amended.

If your written commitment is accepted and it is subsequently found that you have failed to comply with its provisions, you will be advised of this determination and formal sanction proceedings will be instituted immediately.

In the event formal sanction proceedings are instituted and the final determination is that a violation of your equal opportunity contract requirements has taken place, any Federal-aid highway construction contracts or subcontracts which you hold may be canceled, terminated, or suspended, and you may be debarred from further such contracts or subcontracts. Such other sanctions as are authorized by Executive Order 11246, as amended, may also be imposed.

We encourage you to take whatever action is necessary to resolve this matter and are anxious to assist you in achieving compliance. Any questions concerning this notice should be addressed to (Name, Address, and Phone).
