
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Civil Rights
#### PART 230 - EXTERNAL PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Construction Contract Equal Opportunity Compliance Procedures
###### Appendix B to Subpart D of Part 230 - Sample Corrective Action Plan

Deficiency 1: Sources likely to yield minority employees have not been contacted for recruitment purposes.

Commitment: We have developed a system of written job applications at our home office which readily identifies minority applicants. In addition to this, as a minimum, we will contact the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), League of Latin American Citizens (LULAC), Urban League, and the Employment Security Office within 20 days to establish a referral system for minority group applicants and expand our recruitment base. We are in the process of identifying other community organizations and associations that may be able to provide minority applicants and will submit an updated listing of recruitment sources and evidence of contact by ________________(Date).

Deficiency 2: There have been inadequate efforts to locate, qualify, and increase skills of minority and female employees and applicants for employment.

Commitment: We will set up an individual file for each apprentice or trainee by ____________(Date) in order to carefully screen the progress, ensure that they are receiving the necessary training, and being promoted promptly upon completion of training requirements. We have established a goal of at least 50 percent of our apprentices and trainees will be minorities and 15 percent will be female. In addition to the commitment made to deficiency number 1, we will conduct a similar identification of organizations able to supply female applicants. Based on our projected personnel needs, we expect to have reached our 50 percent goal for apprentices and trainees by ______________(Date).

Deficiency 3: Very little effort to assure subcontractors have meaningful minority group representation among their employees.
