
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter III - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
### PART 1300 - UNIFORM PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Appendix B to Part 1300 - Application Requirements for Section 405 and Section 1906 Grants
##### Fill in all blanks below.

[]

- The State's occupant protection program area plan for the upcoming fiscal year is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

- The State will participate in the Click it or Ticket national mobilization in the fiscal year of the grant. The description of the State's planned participation is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

- Projects demonstrating the State's active network of child restraint inspection stations are provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location). Such description includes estimates for: (1) the total number of planned inspection stations and events during the upcoming fiscal year; and (2) within that total, the number of planned inspection stations and events serving each of the following population categories: urban, rural, and at-risk. The planned inspection stations/events provided in the annual grant application are staffed with at least one current nationally Certified Child Passenger Safety Technician.

- Projects, as provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location), that include estimates of the total number of classes and total number of technicians to be trained in the upcoming fiscal year to ensure coverage of child passenger safety inspection stations and inspection events by nationally Certified Child Passenger Safety Technicians.
