
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter III - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
### PART 1300 - UNIFORM PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Appendix B to Part 1300 - Application Requirements for Section 405 and Section 1906 Grants
##### Check at least 3 boxes below and fill in all blanks under those checked boxes.

[]

&#x25A1; The State's primary seat belt use law, requiring all occupants riding in a passenger motor vehicle to be restrained in a seat belt or a child restraint, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.

&#x25A1; The State's occupant protection law, requiring occupants to be secured in a seat belt or age-appropriate child restraint while in a passenger motor vehicle and a minimum fine of $25, was enacted on ___ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.

- _____ Requirement for all occupants to be secured in seat belt or age appropriate child restraint;

- _____ Coverage of all passenger motor vehicles;

- _____ Minimum fine of at least $25;

- _____ Exemptions from restraint requirements.

&#x25A1; Projects demonstrating the State's seat belt enforcement plan are provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

&#x25A1; The projects demonstrating the State's high risk population countermeasure program are provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

&#x25A1; The State's comprehensive occupant protection program is provided as follows:

- Date of NHTSA-facilitated program assessment conducted within 5 years prior to the application date: ___ (date);

- Multi-year strategic plan: annual grant application or triennial HSP at ___ (location);

- The name and title of the State's designated occupant protection coordinator is ______.

- List that contains the names, titles and organizations of the statewide occupant protection task force membership: annual grant application at ___ (location).

&#x25A1; The State's NHTSA-facilitated occupant protection program assessment of all elements of its occupant protection program was conducted on ___ (date) (within 5 years of the application due date);
