
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter III - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
### PART 1300 - UNIFORM PROCEDURES FOR STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Appendix B to Part 1300 - Application Requirements for Section 405 and Section 1906 Grants
##### Check at least one of the following boxes below and fill in any blanks.

[]

&#x25A1; Motorcycle Safety Foundation Basic Rider Course;

&#x25A1; TEAM OREGON Basic Rider Training;

&#x25A1; Idaho STAR Basic I;

&#x25A1; California Motorcyclist Safety Program Motorcyclist Training Course;

&#x25A1; Other curriculum that meets NHTSA's Model National Standards for Entry-Level Motorcycle Rider Training and that has been approved by NHTSA.

- In the annual grant application at ___ (location), a list of counties or political subdivisions in the State where motorcycle rider training courses will be conducted during the fiscal year of the grant AND number of registered motorcycles in each such county or political subdivision according to official State motor vehicle records.

- The name and organization of the head of the designated State authority over motorcyclist safety issues is ______.

- The State's motorcyclist awareness program was developed by or in coordination with the designated State authority having jurisdiction over motorcyclist safety issues.

- In the annual grant application at ___ (location), performance measures and corresponding performance targets developed for motorcycle awareness that identify, using State crash data, the counties or political subdivisions within the State with the highest number of motorcycle crashes involving a motorcycle and another motor vehicle.

- In the annual grant application at ___ (location), the projects demonstrating that the State will implement data-driven programs in a majority of counties or political subdivisions where the incidence of crashes involving a motorcycle and another motor vehicle is highest, and a list that identifies, using State crash data, the counties or political subdivisions within the State ranked in order of the highest to lowest number of crashes involving a motorcycle and another motor vehicle per county or political subdivision.

The State's motorcycle helmet law, requiring the use of a helmet for each motorcycle rider under the age of 18, was enacted on lowbarm;__ (date) and last amended on ___ (date), is in effect, and will be enforced during the fiscal year of the grant.

- Data showing the total number of motor vehicle crashes involving motorcycles is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

- Description of the State's methods for collecting and analyzing data is provided in the annual grant application at ___ (location).

- In the annual grant application or triennial HSP at ___ (location), performance measures and corresponding performance targets developed to reduce impaired motorcycle operation.
