
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter III - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
### PART 1327 - PROCEDURES FOR PARTICIPATING IN AND RECEIVING INFORMATION FROM THE NATIONAL DRIVER REGISTER PROBLEM DRIVER POINTER SYSTEM
#### ยง 1327.4 Certification, termination and reinstatement procedures.
##### Termination or cancellation.

(b)(1) If a State finds it necessary to discontinue participation, the chief driver licensing official of the participating State shall notify NHTSA in writing, providing the reason for terminating its participation.

(2) The effective date of termination will be no less than 30 days after notification of termination.

(3) NHTSA will notify any participating State that changes its operations such that it no longer meets statutory and regulatory requirements, that its certification to participate in the NDR will be withdrawn if it does not come back into compliance within 30 days from the date of notification.

(4) If a participating State does not come back into compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements within the 30-day period, NHTSA will send a letter to the chief driver licensing official cancelling its certification to participate in the NDR.

(5) NHTSA will remove all records on file and will not accept any inquiries or reports from a State whose participation in the NDR has been terminated or cancelled.

(6) To be reinstated as a participating State after being terminated or cancelled, the chief driver licensing official shall follow the notification procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) and (3) of this section and must be re-certified by NHTSA as a participating State under PDPS, upon a determination by NHTSA that the State complies with the statutory and regulatory requirements for participation, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) and (4) of this section.
