
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter III - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
### PART 1327 - PROCEDURES FOR PARTICIPATING IN AND RECEIVING INFORMATION FROM THE NATIONAL DRIVER REGISTER PROBLEM DRIVER POINTER SYSTEM
#### ยง 1327.5 Conditions for becoming a participating State.
##### Personnel security investigations.

(d)The chief driver licensing official of a participating State shall provide for and establish routine procedures and forms to accept requests for NDR file checks from individuals subject to personnel security investigations and from Federal departments or agencies that are authorized to perform personnel security investigations. These authorized users may receive information from the NDR file through participating States.

(1) The procedures or forms developed by the chief driver licensing official to facilitate NDR searches for these authorized users shall provide for the request to be made by the individual or by the Federal department or agency if the individual first consented to the search in writing. Any request to the chief driver licensing official and any written consent by the individual shall:

(i) State that NDR records are to be released;

(ii) Specifically state who is authorized to receive the records;

(iii) Be signed and dated by the individual or individual's legal representative;

(iv) Specifically state that the authorization is valid only for the duration of the personnel security investigation; and

(v) Specifically state that it is recommended, but not required, that the authorized recipient of the information verify matches with the State of Record.

(2) Any request made by a Federal department or agency may include, in lieu of the actual information described in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii) through (v) of this section, a certification that a written consent was signed and dated by the individual or the individual's legal representative, specifically stated that the authorization is valid only for the duration of the personnel security investigation, and specifically stated that it is recommended, but not required, that the authorized recipient of the information verify matches with the State of Record.

(3) The chief driver licensing official shall provide to the authorized user a response indicating either Probable Identification (match) or No Record Found. In the case of probable identification, the State of Record will also be included in the response so that the Federal department or agency may obtain additional information regarding the individual's driving record.
