
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - National Highway Institute
#### PART 260 - EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Fellowship and Scholarship Grants
###### ยง 260.107 Eligibility.

(a) Prior recipients of FHWA scholarships or fellowships are eligible if they will have completed all specific work commitments before beginining study under the programs for which applications are made.

(b) Candidates for the fellowship program shall have earned bachelor's or comparable college-level degrees prior to beginining advanced studies under the program.

(c) Candidates shall submit evidence of acceptance, or probable acceptance, for study in programs that will enhance their contributions to their employers. Evidence of probable acceptance may be a letter from the department chairman or other school official.

(d) Candidates shall agree to pursue certain minimum study loads as determined by the FHWA and designated in the FHWA notices announcing the programs each year.

(e) FHWA employees who receive awards will be required to execute continued service agreements, consistent with the Government Employees Training Act requirements, which obligate the employees to continue to work for the agency for three times the duration of the training received.

(f) Candidates who are students or employees of State or local highway/transportation agencies shall agree in writing to work on a full-time basis in public service with State or local highway/transportation agencies for a specified period of time after completing study under the program. The FHWA notices announcing the programs each year shall specify the time period of the work commitment.

(g) Candidates shall agree to respond to brief questionnaires designed to assist the NHI in program evaluation both during and following the study period.

(h) Recipients of awards for full-time shall agree to limit their part-time employment as stipulated in the FHWA notice announcing the programs.

(i) Candidates shall not profit financially from FHWA grants. Where acceptance of the living stipend portion of the grant would result in a profit to the candidate, as determined by comparing the candidate's regular full-time salary with the candidate's part-time salary and employer salary support plus living stipend, the grant amount will be reduced accordingly. In cases where a candidate must relocate and maintain two households, exceptions to this condition will be considered.

(j) Candidates shall be citizens, or shall declare their intent to become citizens of the United States.
