
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - Planning and Research
#### PART 450 - PLANNING ASSISTANCE AND STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Statewide and Nonmetropolitan Transportation Planning and Programming
###### ยง 450.226 Phase-in of new requirements.

(a) Prior to May 27, 2018, a State may adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that has been developed using the SAFETEA-LU requirements or the provisions and requirements of this part. On or after May 27, 2018, a State may only adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that it has developed according to the provisions and requirements of this part.

(b) Prior to May 27, 2018 (2 years after the publication date of this rule), FHWA/FTA may approve a STIP update or amendment that has been developed using the SAFETEA-LU requirements or the provisions and requirements of this part. On or after May 27, 2018, FHWA/FTA may only approve a STIP update or amendment that a State has developed according to the provisions and requirements of this part, regardless of when the State developed the STIP.

(c) On and after May 27, 2018 (2 years after the publication date of this rule), the FHWA and the FTA will take action on an updated or amended STIP developed under the provisions of this part, even if the State has not yet adopted a new long-range statewide transportation plan under the provisions of this part, as long as the underlying transportation planning process is consistent with the requirements in the MAP-21.

(d) On or after May 27, 2018, a State may make an administrative modification to a STIP that conforms to either the SAFETEA-LU requirements or to the provisions and requirements of this part.

(e) Two years from the effective date of each rule establishing performance measures under 23 U.S.C. 150(c), 49 U.S.C. 5326, or 49 U.S.C. 5329, FHWA/FTA will only approve an updated or amended STIP that is based on a statewide transportation planning process that meets the performance-based planning requirements in this part and in such a rule.

(f) Prior to 2 years from the effective date of each rule establishing performance measures under 23 U.S.C. 150(c), 49 U.S.C. 5326, or 49 U.S.C. 5329, a State may adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that it has developed using the SAFETEA-LU requirements or the performance-based provisions and requirements of this part and in such a rule. Two years on or after the effective date of each rule establishing performance measures under 23 U.S.C. 150(c), 49 U.S.C. 5326, or 49 U.S.C. 5329, a State may only adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that it has developed according to the performance-based provisions and requirements of this part and in such a rule.
