
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - Planning and Research
#### PART 470 - HIGHWAY SYSTEMS
##### Subpart A - Federal-aid Highway Systems
###### ยง 470.115 Approval authority.
############# Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 470 - Designation of Segments of Section 332()(2) Corridors as Parts of the Interstate System

The following guidance is comparable to current procedures for Interstate System designation requests under 23 U.S.C. 103(c)(4)(A). All Interstate System additions must be approved by the Federal Highway Administrator. The provisions of section 332(a)(2) of the NHS Act have also been incorporated into the ISTEA as section 1105(e)(5)(A).

1. The request must be submitted through the appropriate FHWA Division Office to the Associate Administrator for Program Development (HEP-10). Comments and recommendations by the division and regional offices are requested.

2. The State DOT secretary (or equivalent) must request that the route segment be added to the Interstate System. The exact location and termini must be specified. If the route segment involves more than one State, each affected State must submit a separate request.

3. The request must provide information to support findings that the segment (a) is built to Interstate design standards and (b) connects to the existing Interstate System. The segment should be of sufficient length to provide substantial service to the travelling public.

4. The request must also identify and justify any design exceptions for which approval is requested.

5. Proposed Interstate route numbering for the segment must be submitted to FHWA and the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Route Numbering.
