
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - Planning and Research
#### PART 470 - HIGHWAY SYSTEMS
##### Subpart A - Federal-aid Highway Systems
###### Appendix D to Subpart A of Part 470 - Guidance Criteria for Evaluating Requests for Modifications to the National Highway System
####### i.e.

4. Proposals to add routes to the NHS should include information on the type of traffic served (, percent of trucks, average trip length, local, commuter, interregional, interstate) by the route, the population centers or major traffic generators served by the route, and how this service compares with existing NHS routes.

5. Proposals should include information on existing and anticipated needs and any planned improvements to the route.

6. Proposals should include information concerning the possible effects of adding or deleting a route to or from the NHS might have on other existing NHS routes that are in close proximity.

7. Proposals to add routes to the NHS should include an assessment of whether modifications (adjustments or deletions) to existing NHS routes, which provide similar service, may be appropriate.

8. Proposed modifications that might affect adjoining States should be developed in cooperation with those States.

9. Proposed modifications consisting of connections to major intermodal facilities should be developed using the criteria set forth below. These criteria were used for identifying initial NHS connections to major intermodal terminals. The primary criteria are based on annual passenger volumes, annual freight volumes, or daily vehicular traffic on one or more principal routes that serve the intermodal facility. The secondary criteria include factors which underscore the importance of an intermodal facility within a specific State.

1. Passengers-scheduled commercial service with more than 250,000 annual enplanements.

2. Cargo-100 trucks per day in each direction on the principal connecting route, or 100,000 tons per year arriving or departing by highway mode.

1. Terminals that handle more than 50,000 TEUs (a volumetric measure of containerized cargo which stands for twenty-foot equivalent units) per year, or other units measured that would convert to more than 100 trucks per day in each direction. (Trucks are defined as large single-unit trucks or combination vehicles handling freight.)

2. Bulk commodity terminals that handle more than 500,000 tons per year by highway or 100 trucks per day in each direction on the principal connecting route. (If no individual terminal handles this amount of freight, but a cluster of terminals in close proximity to each other does, then the cluster of terminals could be considered in meeting the criteria. In such cases, the connecting route might terminate at a point where the traffic to several terminals begins to separate.)

3. Passengers-terminals that handle more than 250,000 passengers per year or 1,000 passengers per day for at least 90 days during the year.

1. 50,000 TEUs per year, or 100 trucks per day, in each direction on the principal connecting route, or other units measured that would convert to more than 100 trucks per day in each direction. (Trucks are defined as large single-unit trucks or combination vehicles carrying freight.)

1. 100 trucks per day in each direction on the principal connecting route.

1. 100,000 passengers per year (entrainments and detrainments). Joint Amtrak, intercity bus and public transit terminals should be considered based on the combined passenger volumes. Likewise, two or more separate facilities in close proximity should be considered based on combined passenger volumes.

1. 100,000 passengers per year (boardings and deboardings).
