
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - Planning and Research
#### PART 490 - NATIONAL PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
##### Subpart B - National Performance Management Measures for the Highway Safety Improvement Program
###### ยง 490.207 National performance management measures for the Highway Safety Improvement Program.

(a) There are five performance measures for the purpose of carrying out the HSIP. They are:

(1) Number of fatalities;

(2) Rate of fatalities;

(3) Number of serious injuries;

(4) Rate of serious injuries; and,

(5) Number of non-motorized fatalities and non-motorized serious injuries.

(b) Each performance measure is based on a 5-year rolling average. The performance measures are calculated as follows:

(1) The performance measure for the number of fatalities is the 5-year rolling average of the total number of fatalities for each State and shall be calculated by adding the number of fatalities for each of the most recent 5 consecutive years ending in the year for which the targets are established, dividing by 5, and rounding to the tenth decimal place. FARS ARF may be used if Final FARS is not available.

(2) The performance measure for the rate of fatalities is the 5-year rolling average of the State's fatality rate per VMT and shall be calculated by first calculating the number of fatalities per 100 million VMT for each of the most recent 5 consecutive years ending in the year for which the targets are established, adding the results, dividing by 5, and rounding to the thousandth decimal place. The FARS ARF may be used if Final FARS is not available. State VMT data are derived from the HPMS. The Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPO) VMT is estimated by the MPO. The sum of the fatality rates is divided by five and then rounded to the thousandth decimal place.

(3) The performance measure for the number of serious injuries is the 5-year rolling average of the total number of serious injuries for each State and shall be calculated by adding the number of serious injuries for each of the most recent 5 consecutive years ending in the year for which the targets are established, dividing by five, and rounding to the tenth decimal place.

(4) The performance measure for the rate of serious injuries is the 5-year rolling average of the State's serious injuries rate per VMT and shall be calculated by first calculating the number of serious injuries per 100 million VMT for each of the most recent 5 consecutive years ending in the year for which the targets are established, adding the results, dividing by five, and rounding to the thousandth decimal place. State VMT data are derived from the HPMS. The MPO VMT is estimated by the MPO.

(5) The performance measure for the number of Non-motorized Fatalities and Non-motorized Serious Injuries is the 5-year rolling average of the total number of non-motorized fatalities and non-motorized serious injuries for each State and shall be calculated by adding the number of non-motorized fatalities to the number non-motorized serious injuries for each of the most recent 5 consecutive years ending in the year for which the targets are established, dividing by five, and rounding to the tenth decimal place. FARS ARF may be used if Final FARS is not available.

(c) For purposes of calculating serious injuries in paragraphs (b)(3), (4), and (5) of this section:

(1) Before April 15, 2019, serious injuries may be determined by either of the following:

(i) Serious injuries coded (A) in the KABCO injury classification scale through use of the NHTSA serious injuries conversion tables; or

(ii) Using MMUCC (incorporated by reference, see ยง 490.111).

(2) By April 15, 2019, serious injuries shall be determined using MMUCC.
