
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - Planning and Research
#### PART 490 - NATIONAL PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
##### Subpart B - National Performance Management Measures for the Highway Safety Improvement Program
###### § 490.209 Establishment of performance targets.

(a) State DOTs shall establish targets annually for each performance measure identified in § 490.207(a) in a manner that is consistent with the following:

(1) State DOT targets shall be identical to the targets established by the State Highway Safety Office for common performance measures reported in the State's Highway Safety Plan, subject to the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 402(k)(4), and as coordinated through the State Strategic Highway Safety Plan.

(2) State DOT targets shall represent performance outcomes anticipated for the calendar year following the HSIP annual report date, as provided in 23 CFR 924.15.

(3) State DOT performance targets shall represent the anticipated performance outcome for all public roadways within the State regardless of ownership or functional class.

(4) State DOT targets shall be reported in the HSIP annual report that is due after April 14, 2017, and in each subsequent HSIP annual report thereafter.

(5) The State DOT shall include, in the HSIP Report (see 23 CFR part 924), at a minimum, the most recent 5 years of serious injury data and non-motorized serious injury data. The serious injury data shall be either MMUCC compliant or converted to the KABCO system (A) for injury classification through use of the NHTSA conversion tables as required by § 490.207(c).

(6) Unless approved by FHWA and subject to § 490.209(a)(1), a State DOT shall not change one or more of its targets for a given year once it is submitted in the HSIP annual report.

(b) In addition to targets described in paragraph (a) of this section, State DOTs may, as appropriate, for each target in paragraph (a) establish additional targets for portions of the State.

(1) A State DOT shall declare and describe in the State HSIP annual report required by § 490.213 the boundaries used to establish each additional target.

(2) State DOTs may select any number and combination of urbanized area boundaries and may also select a single non-urbanized area boundary for the establishment of additional targets.

(3) The boundaries used by the State DOT for additional targets shall be contained within the geographic boundary of the State.

(4) State DOTs shall evaluate separately the progress of each additional target and report that progress in the State HSIP annual report (see 23 CFR part 924).

(c) The Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPO) shall establish performance targets for each of the measures identified in § 490.207(a), where applicable, in a manner that is consistent with the following:

(1) The MPOs shall establish targets not later than 180 days after the respective State DOT establishes and reports targets in the State HSIP annual report.

(2) The MPO target shall represent performance outcomes anticipated for the same calendar year as the State target.

(3) After the MPOs within each State establish the targets, the State DOT must be able to provide those targets to FHWA, upon request.

(4) For each performance measure, the MPOs shall establish a target by either:

(i) Agreeing to plan and program projects so that they contribute toward the accomplishment of the State DOT safety target for that performance measure; or

(ii) Committing to a quantifiable target for that performance measure for their metropolitan planning area.

(5) The MPOs that establish quantifiable fatality rate or serious injury rate targets shall report the VMT estimate used for such targets and the methodology used to develop the estimate. The methodology should be consistent with other Federal reporting requirements, if applicable.

(6) The MPO targets established under paragraph (c)(4) of this section specific to the metropolitan planning area shall represent the anticipated performance outcome for all public roadways within the metropolitan planning boundary regardless of ownership or functional class.

(d)(1) The State DOT and relevant MPOs shall coordinate on the establishment of targets in accordance with 23 CFR part 450 to ensure consistency, to the maximum extent practicable.

(2) The MPOs with multi-State boundaries that agree to plan and program projects to contribute toward State targets in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section shall plan and program safety projects in support of the State DOT targets for each area within each State (e.g., MPOs that extend into two States shall agree to plan and program projects to contribute toward two separate sets of targets (one set for each State)).
