
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - Planning and Research
#### PART 490 - NATIONAL PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
##### Subpart B - National Performance Management Measures for the Highway Safety Improvement Program
###### ยง 490.211 Determining whether a State department of transportation has met or made significant progress toward meeting performance targets.

(a) The determination for having met or made significant progress toward meeting the performance targets under 23 U.S.C. 148(i) will be determined based on:

(1) The most recent available Final FARS data for the fatality number. The FARS ARF may be used if Final FARS is not available;

(2) The most recent available Final FARS and HPMS data for the fatality rate. The FARS ARF may be used if Final FARS is not available;

(3) The most recent available Final FARS data for the non-motorized fatality number. The FARS ARF may be used if Final FARS is not available;

(4) State reported data for the serious injuries number;

(5) State reported data and HPMS data for the serious injuries rate; and

(6) State reported data for the non-motorized serious injuries number.

(b) The State-reported serious injury data and non-motorized serious injury data will be taken from the HSIP report in accordance with 23 CFR part 924.

(c) The FHWA will evaluate whether a State DOT has met or made significant progress toward meeting performance targets.

(1) The FHWA will not evaluate any additional targets a State DOT may establish under ยง 490.209(b).

(2) A State DOT is determined to have met or made significant progress toward meeting its targets when at least four of the performance targets established under ยง 490.207(a) are:

(i) Met; or

(ii) The outcome for a performance measure is less than the 5-year rolling average data for the performance measure for the year prior to the establishment of the State's target. For example, of the State DOT's five performance targets, the State DOT is determined to have met or made significant progress toward meeting its targets if it met two targets and the outcome is less than the measure for the year prior to the establishment of the target for two other targets.

(d) If a State DOT has not met or made significant progress toward meeting performance targets in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the State DOT must comply with 23 U.S.C. 148(i) for the subsequent fiscal year.

(e) The FHWA will first evaluate whether a State DOT has met or made significant progress toward meeting performance targets after the calendar year following the year for which the first targets are established, and then annually thereafter.
