
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter E - Planning and Research
#### PART 490 - NATIONAL PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
##### Subpart B - National Performance Management Measures for the Highway Safety Improvement Program
###### ยง 490.213 Reporting of targets for the Highway Safety Improvement Program.

(a) The targets established by the State DOT shall be reported to FHWA in the State's HSIP annual report in accordance with 23 CFR part 924.

(b) The MPOs shall annually report their established safety targets to their respective State DOT, in a manner that is documented and mutually agreed upon by both parties.

(c) The MPOs shall report baseline safety performance, VMT estimate and methodology if a quantifiable rate target was established, and progress toward the achievement of their targets in the system performance report in the metropolitan transportation plan in accordance with 23 CFR part 450. Safety performance and progress shall be reported based on the following data sources:

(1) The most recent available Final FARS data for the fatality number. The FARS ARF may be used if Final FARS is not available;

(2) The most recent available Final FARS and MPO VMT estimate for the fatality rate. The FARS ARF may be used if Final FARS is not available;

(3) The most recent available Final FARS data for the non-motorized fatality number. The FARS ARF may be used if Final FARS is not available;

(4) State reported data for the serious injuries number;

(5) State reported data and MPO VMT estimate for the serious injuries rate; and

(6) State reported data for the non-motorized serious injuries number.
