
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter F - Transportation Infrastructure Management
#### PART 515 - ASSET MANAGEMENT PLANS
##### § 515.11 Deadlines and phase-in of asset management plan development.
###### Deadlines.

(a)(1) Not later than April 30, 2018, the State DOT shall submit to FHWA a State-approved initial asset management plan meeting the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. The FHWA will review the processes described in the initial plan and make a process certification decision as provided in § 515.13(a).

(2) Not later than June 30, 2019, the State DOT shall submit a State-approved asset management plan meeting all the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 119 and this part, including paragraph (c) of this section, together with documentation demonstrating implementation of the asset management plan. The FWHA will determine whether the State DOT's plan and implementation meet the requirements of 23 U.S.C. 119 and this part as provided in § 515.13(b).

(b) The initial plan shall describe the State DOT's processes for developing its risk-based asset management plan, including the policies, procedures, documentation, and implementation approach that satisfy the requirements of this part. The plan also must contain measures and targets for assets covered by the plan. The investment strategies required by § 515.7(e) and 515.9((d)(8) must support progress toward the achievement of the national goals identified in 23 U.S.C. 150(b). The initial plan must include and address the State DOT's 23 U.S.C. 150(d) targets for NHS pavements and bridges only if the first target-setting deadline established in 23 CFR part 490 for NHS pavements and bridges is a date more than 6 months before the initial plan submission deadline in paragraph (a)(1). The initial asset management plan may exclude one or more of the necessary analyses with respect to the following required asset management processes:

(1) Life-cycle planning required under § 515.7(a)(2);

(2) The risk management analysis required under § 515.7(a)(3); and

(3) Financial plan under § 515.7(a)(4).

(c) The State-approved asset management plan submitted not later than June 30, 2019, shall include all required analyses, performed using FHWA-certified processes, and the section 150 measures and State DOT targets for the NHS pavements and bridges. The plan must meet all requirements in §§ 515.7 and 515.9. This includes investment strategies that are developed based on the analyses from all processes required under § 515.7, and meet the requirements in 23 U.S.C. 119(e)(2).
