
# Title 23 - Highways
## Chapter I - Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Engineering and Traffic Operations
#### PART 625 - DESIGN STANDARDS FOR HIGHWAYS
##### ยง 625.4 Standards, policies, and standard specifications.
###### Bridges and structures.

(b)(1) For existing bridges originally designed to any edition of the AASHTO Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges, modifications may be designed to the Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges, 17th Edition, AASHTO, 2002 (incorporated by reference; see ยง 625.4(d)), or to the standards and specifications that are listed in ยง 625.4(b).

(2) AASHTO LRFD Bridge Construction Specifications (paragraph (d) of this section).

(3) AASHTO LRFD Bridge Design Specifications (paragraph (d) of this section).

(4) AASHTO LRFD Movable Highway Bridge Design Specifications (paragraph (d) of this section).

(5) AASHTO/AWS D1.5M/D1.5 Bridge Welding Code (paragraph (d) of this section).

(6) AWS D1.4/D1.4M Structural Welding Code-Reinforcing Steel (paragraph (d) of this section).

(7) AASHTO Standard Specifications for Structural Supports for Highway Signs, Luminaires, and Traffic Signals, (paragraph (d) of this section); or AASHTO LRFD Specifications for Structural Supports for Highway Signs, Luminaires, and Traffic Signals (paragraph (d) of this section).

(8) Navigational Clearances for Bridges, refer to 23 CFR part 650, subpart H.

(9) AWS D1.1/D1.1M Structural Welding Code-Steel (paragraph (d) of this section).
