
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 218 - RAILROAD OPERATING PRACTICES
##### Appendix C to Part 218 - Statement of Agency Enforcement Policy on Tampering
###### et seq.

FRA's regulatory prohibition for subsequent operator conduct reflects the legal standard for individual culpability set forth in the RSIA. Under the relevant statutory standard ("knowingly operates or permits to be operated a train on which such devices have been tampered with or disabled by another person")-now incorporated into ยง 218.57-individuals could be held to a simple negligence standard of conduct, i.e., a standard of reasonable care under the circumstances. FRA's conclusion about the proper interpretation of the word "knowingly" stems from both normal canons of statutory construction and analysis of decisional law concerning the use of similar statutory constructs in the civil penalty context. It is also consistent with other Departmental interpretations of the word as used in similar contexts. (See 49 CFR 107.299, defining "knowingly" under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 App. U.S.C. 1801)

Under that statutory language, the responsible members of the crew could be culpable if either (1) due to their failure to exercise reasonable care, they failed to determine that the safety device was not functioning, or (2) having ascertained that the device was not functioning, still elected to operate the train. Similarly, railroad supervisors who permit or direct that a train with a disabled device be operated after having learned that the safety device is not functioning or after having failed to use reasonable care in the performance of their duties could also be subject to sanction.

However, as a matter of enforcement policy, application of a negligence standard in this particular context presently appears unwarranted. We have seen no evidence of an employee's negligent failure to detect another employee's tampering having caused a safety problem. FRA can effectively attack the known dimensions of the tampering problem by employing an enforcement policy that limits its enforcement actions to situations where individuals clearly had actual knowledge of the disabled device and intentionally operated the train notwithstanding that knowledge.

Therefore, FRA will not take enforcement action against an individual under ยง 218.57 absent a showing of such actual knowledge of the facts. Actual, subjective knowledge need not be demonstrated. It will suffice to show objectively that the alleged violator must have known the facts based on reasonable inferences drawn from the circumstances. For example, it is reasonable to infer that a person knows about something plainly in sight on the locomotive he is operating. Also, unlike the case where willfulness must be shown (see FRA's statement of policy at 49 CFR part 209, appendix A), knowledge of or reckless disregard for the law need not be shown to make out a violation of ยง 218.57. The knowledge relevant here is knowledge of the facts constituting the violation, not knowledge of the law.

Should FRA receive evidence indicating that a stricter enforcement policy is necessary to address the tampering problem, it will revise its enforcement policy to permit enforcement actions based only on a showing of the subsequent operator's negligent failure to detect the tampering, as the relevant provision of the RSIA permits it to do now. Any such change in enforcement policy will become effective only after publication of a revised version of this appendix.
