
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart D - Operating Administrations
##### ยง 1.83 Delegations to the Federal Aviation Administrator.

The Federal Aviation Administrator is delegated authority to:

(a) Carry out the following functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (Aviation Programs):

(1) Sections 40103(a)(2), relating to the consultation with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board before prescribing regulations or procedures that will have a significant impact on accessibility of commercial airports or commercial air transportation for individuals with disabilities; 40109(c), but only as it relates to the regulation of 49 U.S.C. 46301(b) (smoke alarm device penalties), and 40109(e), relating to maximum flying hours 40113(a) as it relates to the functions vested in the Secretary and delegated in this section; 40114, relating to reports and records requirements; 40115, relating to withholding information from public disclosure; 40116, relating to the prohibition on State taxation as the prohibition may affect an airport sponsor's grant assurances; 40117, relating to passenger facility charges; 40119(b), relating to the issuance of regulations on disclosure of information obtained or developed in ensuring security; and 40127(b) of chapter 401, relating to prohibition on discrimination by private airports;

(2) Section 41723 of subchapter I of chapter 417, relating to notice concerning aircraft assembly;

(3) Section 44102(b) of chapter 441, relating to defining the term "based and primarily used in the United States";

(4) Chapter 443, relating to insurance;

(5) Chapter 445, relating to facilities, personnel, and research, except section 44502(a)(3) as it relates to authorizing a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government to carry out any duty or power under subsection 44502(a) with the consent of the head of the department, agency, or instrumentality;

(6) Chapter 447, relating to safety regulation;

(7) Chapter 451, relating to alcohol and controlled substances testing;

(8) Subpart IV of Part A of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (chapters 461-465) relating to the Secretary's authority to enforce and impose penalties under sections of Subtitle VII that have been delegated to the Federal Aviation Administrator in this section;

(9) Part B of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (chapters 471-475) relating to airport development and noise, except 49 U.S.C. 47129(a);

(10) Part C of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (chapters 481-483) relating to financing; and

(11) Part E of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII (chapter 501) relating to Buy-American Preferences.

(b) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by chapters 509 and 511 (commercial space) of title 51, U.S.C. and coordinate with the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs regarding those functions related to the promotion of the aerospace industry.

(c) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by part B of title II of the Clean Air Act, as amended (Pub. L. 91-604, sec. 11, 84 Stat. 1703), and by 40 CFR part 87 as it relates to exemptions from aircraft air pollution standards.

(d)(1) Except as delegated to the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy by ยง 1.25, carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5121(a), (b), (c), and (d), 5122, 5123, and 5124, relating to the transportation or shipment of hazardous materials by air.

(2) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5114, relating to the establishment of procedures for monitoring and enforcing regulations with respect to the transportation of radioactive materials on passenger-carrying aircraft.

(3) Participate, with the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, in the Dangerous Goods Panel at the International Civil Aviation Organization, under the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5120.

(e) Serve, or designate a representative to serve, as Vice Chairman and alternate Department of Transportation member of the Interagency Group on International Aviation (IGIA) pursuant to the interagency agreement of December 9, 1960, and Executive Order 11382, and provide for the administrative operation of the IGIA Secretariat.

(f) Carry out the functions assigned to the Secretary by Executive Order 12465 relating to commercial expendable launch vehicle activities.

(g) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1993 (Pub. L. 102-588, 106 Stat 5119, November 4, 1992).
