
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart D - Operating Administrations
##### ยง 1.84 The Federal Highway Administration.

Is responsible for:

(a) Improving mobility on our Nation's highways through national leadership, innovation, and program delivery.

(b) Developing safety strategies using a data-driven, systematic approach to address safety for motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians from engineering, education, enforcement, and emergency medical services perspectives and coordinating with FMCSA and NHTSA as appropriate.

(c) Planning, in cooperation with the States, the nation's highway system.

(d) Improving, in cooperation with the States (via the provision of grants), infrastructure condition, safety, mobility and freight movement roads on the National Highway System, including the Interstate System and to other federal-aid roads and other surface transportation infrastructure.

(e) Identifying and deploying innovation aimed at shortening project delivery, enhancing the safety of our roadways, and protecting the environment.

(f) Surveying and constructing Federal lands transportation facilities, Federal lands access transportation facilities, tribal transportation facilities, defense highways and access roads, and parkways and roads in national parks and other federally-administered areas.

(g) Developing and administering uniform State standards for highway safety programs with respect to identification and surveillance of crash locations; highway design, construction, and maintenance, including context sensitive solutions, highway-related aspects of pedestrian safety, and traffic control devices.

(h) Administering the Department's National Bridge Inspection Standards and the National Tunnel Inspection Standards to ensure the Nation has safe, well-maintained bridges and tunnels for use by the traveling public.

(i) In coordination with NHTSA, RITA, and FMCSA, conducting vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure research.

(j) Managing TIFIA funds, 23 U.S.C. 601-609, in conjunction with the TIFIA Joint Program Office, including managing accounting and budgeting activities, and procuring any necessary financial or technical support services for the TIFIA program.

(k) Maximizing the positive impacts on the U.S. economy by encouraging domestic manufacturing on highway projects through the enforcement of Buy America provisions.
