
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 220 - RAILROAD COMMUNICATIONS
##### Subpart C - Electronic Devices
###### ยง 220.313 Instruction.
####### Program.

(a)Beginning December 27, 2010, each railroad shall maintain a written program of instruction and examination of each railroad operating employee and each supervisor of the railroad operating employee on the meaning and application of the railroad's operating rules implementing the requirements of this subpart if these requirements are pertinent to the employee's duties. If all requirements of this subpart are satisfied, a railroad may consolidate any portion of the instruction or examination required by this subpart with the program of instruction required under ยง 217.11 of this chapter.

(1) The written program of instruction and examination shall address the requirements of this subpart, as well as consequences of noncompliance.

(2) The written program of instruction and examination shall include, but is not limited to, an explanation of the following:

(i) When a railroad operating employee must have personal electronic devices turned off with the earpiece removed from the ear as required by this subpart.

(ii) If a railroad supplies an electronic device to its railroad operating employees, when a railroad operating employee may use such a device. The employee must be instructed on what constitutes an authorized business purpose.

(iii) The potential penalties and other consequences of committing a violation of this subpart, both those imposed by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and those imposed by the railroad, as well as any distinction between the requirements of this subpart and any more stringent requirements imposed by the railroad and the related distinction between the two sets of potential consequences.
