
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 222 - USE OF LOCOMOTIVE HORNS AT PUBLIC HIGHWAY-RAIL GRADE CROSSINGS
##### Subpart C - Exceptions to the Use of the Locomotive Horn
###### Silenced Horns at Groups of Crossings - Quiet Zones
####### ยง 222.35 What are the minimum requirements for quiet zones?
######## Minimum length.

(a)(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the minimum length of a New Quiet Zone or New Partial Quiet Zone established under this part shall be one-half mile along the length of railroad right-of-way.

(ii) The one-half mile minimum length requirement shall be waived for any New Quiet Zone or New Partial Quiet Zone that is added onto an existing quiet zone, provided there is no public highway-rail grade crossing at which locomotive horns are routinely sounded within one-half mile of the New Quiet Zone or New Partial Quiet Zone.

(iii) New Quiet Zones and New Partial Quiet Zones established along the same rail line within a single political jurisdiction shall be separated by at least one public highway-rail grade crossing, unless a New Quiet Zone or New Partial Quiet Zone is being added onto an existing quiet zone.

(2)(i) The length of a Pre-Rule Quiet Zone or Pre-Rule Partial Quiet Zone may continue unchanged from that which existed as of October 9, 1996.

(ii) With the exception of combining adjacent Pre-Rule Quiet Zones or Pre-Rule Partial Quiet Zones, the addition of any public highway-rail grade crossing to a Pre-Rule Quiet Zone or Pre-Rule Partial Quiet Zone shall end the grandfathered status of that quiet zone and transform it into a New Quiet Zone or New Partial Quiet Zone that must comply with all requirements applicable to New Quiet Zones and New Partial Quiet Zones.

(iii) The deletion of any public highway-rail grade crossing from a Pre-Rule Quiet Zone or Pre-Rule Partial Quiet Zone, with the exception of a grade separation or crossing closure, must result in a quiet zone of at least one-half mile in length in order to retain Pre-Rule Quiet Zone or Pre-Rule Partial Quiet Zone status.

(3) A quiet zone may include grade crossings on a segment of rail line crossing more than one political jurisdiction.
