
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 222 - USE OF LOCOMOTIVE HORNS AT PUBLIC HIGHWAY-RAIL GRADE CROSSINGS
##### Subpart C - Exceptions to the Use of the Locomotive Horn
###### Silenced Horns at Groups of Crossings - Quiet Zones
####### ยง 222.43 What notices and other information are required to create or continue a quiet zone?
######## Required contents.

(2)The Notice of Quiet Zone Continuation shall include the following:

(i) A list of each public, private, and pedestrian grade crossing within the quiet zone, identified by both U.S. DOT National Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Inventory Number and street or highway name.

(ii) A specific reference to the regulatory provision that provides the basis for quiet zone continuation, citing as appropriate, ยง 222.41 or ยง 222.42 of this part.

(iii) A statement of the time period within which restrictions on the routine sounding of the locomotive horn will be imposed (i.e., 24 hours or nighttime hours only.)

(iv) An accurate and complete Grade Crossing Inventory Form for each public, private, and pedestrian grade crossing within the quiet zone that reflects conditions currently existing at the crossing.

(v) The name and title of the person responsible for monitoring compliance with the requirements of this part and the manner in which that person can be contacted.

(vi) A list of the names and addresses of each party that will receive notification in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(vii) A statement signed by the chief executive officer of each public authority participating in the continuation of the quiet zone, in which the chief executive officer certifies that the information submitted by the public authority is accurate and complete to the best of his/her knowledge and belief.
