
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 223 - SAFETY GLAZING STANDARDS - LOCOMOTIVES, PASSENGER CARS AND CABOOSES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 223.3 Application.

(a) This part applies to railroads that operate rolling equipment on standard gauge track that is a part of the general railroad system of transportation.

(b) This part does not apply to-

(1) Locomotives, cabooses, and passenger cars that operate only on track inside an installation that is not part of the general railroad system of transportation.

(2) Rapid transit operations in an urban area that are not connected with the general railroad system of transportation.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section:

(i) Locomotives, cabooses, and passenger cars that are historic or more than 50 years old and, except for incidental freight service, are used only for excursion, educational, recreational, or private transportation purposes; and

(ii) Cabooses and passenger cars in a railroad's fleet on April 11, 2016 that are used only for the railroad's private transportation purposes. Each such railroad caboose or car that is equipped with glazing that complies with the glazing requirements contained in appendix A to this part as of February 9, 2016, must remain in compliance with those requirements.

(4) Locomotives that are used exclusively in designated service as defined in ยง 223.5.

(5) Locomotives, cabooses, and passenger cars built or rebuilt prior to July 1, 1980, that are operated at speeds not exceeding 30 mph, and used only where the risk of propelled or fouling objects striking the equipment is low. Risk is presumed low, unless the railroad operating the equipment has knowledge, or FRA makes a showing, that specific risk factors exist. Risk factors include reported incidents of propelled or fouling objects striking rail equipment, or infrastructure conditions or other operating environment conditions that have led or are likely to lead to objects striking rail equipment in operation.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, this paragraph (c) applies, as specified, to each locomotive, passenger car, and caboose built after 1945 that is more than 50 years old and is used only for excursion, educational, recreational, or private transportation purposes.

(1) Each such passenger car must comply with the emergency window requirements contained in ยง 223.9(c) or ยง 223.15(c), as appropriate, when it is occupied and operates in an intercity passenger or commuter train subject to part 238 of this chapter. A tool or other instrument may be used to remove or break an emergency window if the tool or other instrument is clearly marked and legible and understandable instructions are provided for its use.

(2) Each such locomotive, passenger car, and caboose that is equipped with glazing that complies with the glazing requirements contained in appendix A to this part as of February 9, 2016, must remain in compliance with those requirements.
