
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 224 - REFLECTORIZATION OF RAIL FREIGHT ROLLING STOCK
##### ยง 224.106 Location of retroreflective sheeting.
###### Railroad freight cars.

(a)The retroreflective sheeting shall be applied along the length of each railroad freight car side in the manner provided by a uniform industry standard accepted by the Associate Administrator that provides for distribution of material along the length of each car and as close as practicable to 42 inches above the top of rail. In the event such a standard is not proffered by industry or accepted by the Associate Administrator, the criteria set forth in this subpart shall apply. Retroreflective sheeting applied under this part must be located clear of appurtenances and devices such as ladders and other safety appliances, pipes, or other attachments that may obscure its visibility. Retroreflective sheeting need not be applied to discontinuous surfaces such as bolts, rivets, door hinges, or other irregularly shaped areas that may prevent the sheeting from adhering to the car sides. In addition, retroreflective sheeting need not be applied over existing or required car stencils and markings. If necessary to avoid appurtenances, discontinuous surfaces, or existing or required car markings or stencils, 4x18 and 4x36 inch strips of retroreflective material may be divided into 4x9 inch strips and applied on either side of the appurtenance, discontinuous surface, or car markings or stencils, as practicable. Unless otherwise specified, retroreflective sheeting shall be applied along the sides of freight rolling stock at intervals not to exceed every 12 feet, as practicable. If it is not practicable to apply retroreflective sheeting every 12 feet because of existing stencils, appurtenances, or discontinuous surfaces, the sheeting shall be applied at the next smallest interval practicable.
