
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 225 - RAILROAD ACCIDENTS/INCIDENTS: REPORTS CLASSIFICATION, AND INVESTIGATIONS
##### § 225.35 Access to records and reports.
###### access

(a) Each railroad subject to this part shall have at least one location, and shall identify each location, where any representative of the Federal Railroad Administration or of a State agency participating in investigative and surveillance activities under part 212 of this chapter or any other authorized representative, has centralizedto a copy of any record and report required under this part, for examination and photocopying in a reasonable manner during normal business hours.

(b) Each railroad subject to this part shall also provide to any representative of the Federal Railroad Administration or of a State agency participating in investigative or and surveillance activities under part 212 of this chapter or any other authorized representative access to relevant medical and claims records for examination and photocopying in a reasonable manner during normal business hours. Such representatives shall display proper credentials when requested. Each railroad shall identify the locations where a copy of any record and report required under this part is accessible for inspection and photocopying by maintaining a list of such establishment locations at the office where the railroad's reporting officer conducts his or her official business. A copy of any record and report required under this part shall be accessible within four business hours after the request. The Form FRA F 6180.107 or the alternate railroad-designed form need not be provided at any railroad establishment within 4 hours of a request. Rather, the Form FRA F 6180.107 or the alternate railroad-designed form must be provided upon request, within five business days, and may be kept at a central location, in either paper or electronic format. FRA will not assess a monetary penalty against the railroad for its failure to provide the requested documentation when circumstances outside the railroad's control preclude it from fulfilling the four-business-hour time limit and the railroad has made a reasonable effort to correct the problem. Should a railroad assert a legal privilege with respect to certain claims and medical records, failure to provide FRA access to such records would not constitute a violation of this section. FRA retains the right to issue a subpoena to obtain such records under 49 U.S.C. §§ 20107 and 20902 and §§ 209.7(a) and 225.31(b) of this title, and the railroad may contest that subpoena.
