
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 227 - OCCUPATIONAL NOISE EXPOSURE
##### Subpart B - Occupational Noise Exposure for Railroad Operating Employees.
###### ยง 227.119 Training program.

(a) The railroad shall institute an occupational noise and hearing conservation training program for all employees included in the hearing conservation program.

(1) The railroad shall offer the training program to each employee included in the hearing conservation program at least once each calendar year. The interval between the date offered to any employee for the training in a calendar year and the date offered in the subsequent calendar year shall be no more than 450 days and no less than 280 days.

(2) The railroad shall require each employee included in the hearing conservation program to complete the training at least once every 1095 days.

(b) The railroad shall provide the training required by paragraph (a) of this section in accordance with the following:

(1) For employees hired after February 26, 2007, within six months of the employee's first tour of duty in a position identified within the scope of this part.

(2) For employees hired on or before February 26, 2007, by Class 1, passenger, and commuter railroads, and railroads with 400,000 or more annual employee hours, by no later than February 26, 2009;

(3) For employees hired on or before February 26, 2007, by railroads with fewer than 400,000 annual employee hours, by no later than February 26, 2010.

(c) The training program shall include and the training materials shall reflect, at a minimum, information on all of the following:

(1) The effects of noise on hearing;

(2) The purpose of hearing protectors;

(3) The advantages, disadvantages, and attenuation of various types of hearing protectors;

(4) Instructions on selection, fitting, use, and care of hearing protectors;

(5) The purpose of audiometric testing, and an explanation of the test procedures;

(6) An explanation of noise operational controls, where used;
