
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 227 - OCCUPATIONAL NOISE EXPOSURE
##### Subpart B - Occupational Noise Exposure for Railroad Operating Employees.
###### ยง 227.111 Audiometric test requirements.
####### Audiometer calibration.

(d)(1) The functional operation of the audiometer shall be checked before each day's use by testing a person with known, stable hearing thresholds or by appropriate calibration device, and by listening to the audiometer's output to make sure that the output is free from distorted or unwanted sounds. Deviations of 10 decibels or greater require an acoustic calibration.

(2) Audiometer calibration shall be checked acoustically at least annually according to the procedures described in ANSI S3.6-2004. Frequencies below 500 Hz and above 8000 Hz may be omitted from this check. The audiometer must meet the sound pressure accuracy requirements of section 7.2 of ANSI S3.6-2004 of 3 dB at any test frequency between 500 and 5000 Hz and 5 dB at any test frequency 6000 Hz and higher for the specific type of transducer used. For air-conduction supra-aural earphones, the specifications in Table 6 of ANSI S3.6-2004 shall apply. For air-conduction insert earphones, the specifications in Table 7 of ANSI S3.6-2004 shall apply. Audiometers that do not meet these requirements must undergo an exhaustive calibration.

(3) Exhaustive Calibration. An exhaustive calibration shall be performed in accordance with ANSI S3.6-2004, according to the following schedule:

(i) At least once every two years on audiometers not used in mobile test vans. Test frequencies below 500 Hz and above 6000 Hz may be omitted from this calibration.

(ii) At least annually on audiometers used in mobile test vans.
