
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart D - Operating Administrations
##### ยง 1.87 Delegations to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator.

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator is delegated authority to:

(a) Carry out the following functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C., Subtitle IV, part B:

(1) Chapter 131, relating to general provisions on transportation policy;

(2) Chapter 133, relating to administrative provisions;

(3) Chapter 135, relating to jurisdiction;

(4) Sections 13704 and 13707 of chapter 137, relating to rates, routes, and services;

(5) Chapter 139, relating to registration and financial responsibility requirements, except section 13907(d)(2);

(6) Chapter 141, relating to operations of motor carriers;

(7) Sections 14501, 14502, and 14504a relating to Federal-State relations, and section 14506 relating to identification of vehicles.

(8) Sections 14701 through 14705, 14707, 14708, 14710, and 14711 of chapter 147, relating to enforcement remedies, investigations and motor carrier liability; and

(9) Sections 14901 through 14913, 14915, and 14916 of chapter 149 relating to civil and criminal penalties for violations of 49 U.S.C. subtitle IV, part B.

(b) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by sections 104 and 204 of the ICC Termination Act of 1995, Public Law 104-88, 109 Stat. 803, relating to self-insurance rules and a savings clause.

(c) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 42 U.S.C. 4917, relating to procedures for the inspection, surveillance and measurement of commercial motor vehicles for compliance with interstate motor carrier noise emission standards and related enforcement activities including the promulgation of necessary regulations.

(d) Carry out the following functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by chapter 51 of title 49, U.S.C.:

(1) Except as delegated to the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy by ยง 1.25, carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5121(a), (b), (c), and (d), 5122, 5123, and 5124, relating to the transportation or shipment of hazardous materials by highway.

(2) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5105(e), relating to inspections of motor vehicles carrying hazardous material; 49 U.S.C. 5109, relating to motor carrier safety permits, except subsection (f); 49 U.S.C. 5112, relating to highway routing of hazardous materials; 49 U.S.C. 5113, relating to unsatisfactory safety ratings of motor carriers; 49 U.S.C. 5119, relating to uniform forms and procedures; and 49 U.S.C. 5125(a) and (c)-(f), relating to preemption determinations or waivers of preemption of hazardous materials highway routing requirements.

(e) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by:

(1) Chapter 313 of 49, U.S.C., relating to commercial motor vehicle operators; and

(2) Section 4123(c), (d) and (e) of SAFETEA-LU relating to grants, funding, and contract authority and availability, respectively, for commercial driver's license information system modernization.

(f) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by subchapters I, III, and IV of chapter 311, title 49, U.S.C., and 49 U.S.C. 31111, relating to commercial motor vehicle programs, safety regulation, and international activities, except that the authority to promulgate safety standards for commercial motor vehicles and equipment subsequent to initial manufacture is limited to standards that are not based upon and similar to a Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard promulgated under chapter 301 of title 49, U.S.C.

(g) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5701 relating to food transportation inspections of commercial motor vehicles.

(h) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority delegated to the Secretary in section 2(d)(2) of Executive Order 12777, as amended, with respect to highway transportation, relating to the approval of means to ensure the availability of private personnel and equipment to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a worst case discharge, the review and approval of response plans, and the authorization of motor carriers, subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Pub. L. 87-88, as amended [33 U.S.C. 1321], to operate without approved response plans.

(i) Carry out chapter 315 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to motor carrier safety.

(j) Carry out 49 U.S.C. 502, 503, 504, 506, and 523 to the extent they relate to motor carriers, motor carriers of migrant workers, and motor private carriers; 49 U.S.C. 507 to the extent it relates to motor carriers, motor carries of migrant workers, motor private carriers, or freight forwarders; and 49 U.S.C. 505, 508, 521(b), and 525.

(k) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 502(a)(1)(A).

(l) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by the following sections of SAFETEA-LU:

(1) Section 4105(b)(1) relating to the study concerning predatory tow truck operations;

(2) Section 4126, relating to the commercial vehicle information systems and networks deployment program;

(3) Section 4127, relating to outreach and education;

(4) Section 4128, relating to grants under the safety data improvement program;

(5) Section 4130-4133, amending section 229 of the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999 (49 U.S.C. 31136 note) relating to the operators of vehicles transporting agricultural commodities and farm supplies, and hours of service for miscellaneous vehicle operators;

(6) Section 4134 (49 U.S.C. 31301 note), relating to the grant program for persons to train operators of commercial motor vehicles;

(7) [Reserved]

(8) Section 4136 relating to interstate vans;

(9) Section 4138 relating to high risk carrier compliance (49 U.S.C. 31144 note);

(10) Section 4139(a)(1), relating to the training of and outreach to State personnel; section (b)(1) relating to a review of Canadian and Mexican compliance with Federal motor vehicles safety standards; and the first sentence of section (b)(2) relating to the report concerning the findings and conclusions of the review required by section (b)(1) (see 49 U.S.C. 31100 note);

(11) Section 4143, granting authority to stop commercial motor vehicles, 18 U.S.C. 3064;

(12) Section 4144, relating to a motor carrier safety advisory committee;

(13) [Reserved]

(14) Section 4147, relating to emergency conditions requiring immediate response (amending section 229 of the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999 (49 U.S.C. 31136 note);

(15) Section 4213, relating to the establishment of a working group for the development of practices and procedures to enhance Federal-State relations (49 U.S.C. 14710 note);

(16) Section 4214, relating to the establishment of a system for collecting consumer complaint information and issuing regulations related to reporting requirements under the system (49 U.S.C. 14701 note); and

(17) Section 4308, granting authority to adopt regulations to carry out SAFETEA-LU, Title IV, subtitle C (49 U.S.C. 13902 note).

(m) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by the following sections of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405):

(1) Section 32101(b) concerning proficiency examination (49 U.S.C. 13902 note).

(2) Section 32101(c) concerning conforming amendments to proficiency examinations (49 U.S.C. 31144 note).

(3) Section 32101(d) concerning agricultural and farm transportation exemption (49 U.S.C. 31136 note).

(4) Section 32104 concerning a study of financial responsibility requirements (49 U.S.C. 13903 note).

(5) Section 32206 concerning a rental truck accident study.

(6) Section 32301(a) requiring an hours of service study.

(7) Section 32302(c)(2) regarding the establishment of state licensing agency oversight (49 U.S.C. 31149 note).

(8) Section 32303(b) relating to the establishment of a driver record notification system (49 U.S.C. 31304 note).

(9) Section 32303(c) relating to a plan for national notification system.

(10) Section 32308 regarding a study, plan, report and implementation of accelerated veteran's licensing procedures (49 U.S.C. 31301 note).

(11) Section 32603(i) relating to the administration of grant programs (49 U.S.C. 31100).

(12) Section 32605 related to a report on the commercial vehicle information system and networks.

(12) Sections 32702, 32707(b), 32708, 32709, 32710, and 32711 related to the Motorcoach Enhanced Safety Act of 2012 (49 U.S.C. 31136 note).

(13) Section 32918(b) relating to broker and forwarder financial responsibility rulemaking requirement (49 U.S.C. 13906 note).

(14) Section 32934 related to exemptions from requirements for covered farm vehicles (49 U.S.C. 31136 note).
