
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 228 - PASSENGER TRAIN EMPLOYEE HOURS OF SERVICE; RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING; SLEEPING QUARTERS
##### Subpart B - Records and Reporting
###### ยง 228.11 Hours of duty records.
####### For signal employees.

(e)Each hours of duty record for a signal employee shall include the following information about the employee:

(1) Identification of the employee (initials and last name; or if last name is not the employee's surname, provide the employee's initials and surname).

(2) Each covered service position in a duty tour.

(3) Headquarters location for the employee.

(4) Amount of time off duty before going on duty or resuming a duty tour.

(5) Location, date, and beginning time of each covered service assignment in a duty tour.

(6) Location, date, and time relieved for each covered service assignment in a duty tour.

(7) Location, date, and time released from each covered service assignment in a duty tour.

(8) Beginning and ending location, date, and time for periods spent in transportation, other than personal commuting, to or from a duty assignment, and mode of transportation (train, track car, railroad-provided motor vehicle, personal automobile, etc.).

(9) Beginning and ending location, date, and time of any other service performed at the behest of the railroad.

(10) Total time on duty for the duty tour.

(11) Reason for any service that exceeds 12 hours total time on duty for the duty tour.
