
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 228 - PASSENGER TRAIN EMPLOYEE HOURS OF SERVICE; RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING; SLEEPING QUARTERS
##### Subpart B - Records and Reporting
###### ยง 228.19 Monthly reports of excess service.
####### For train employees.

(b)Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the following instances of excess service by train employees must be reported to FRA as required by this section:

(1) A train employee is on duty for more than 12 consecutive hours.

(2) A train employee continues on duty without at least 10 consecutive hours off duty during the preceding 24 hours. Instances involving duty tours that are broken by less than 10 consecutive hours off duty which duty tours constitute more than a total of 12 hours time on duty must be reported.

(3) A train employee returns to duty without at least 10 consecutive hours off duty during the preceding 24 hours. Instances involving duty tours that are broken by less than 10 consecutive hours off duty which duty tours constitute more than a total of 12 hours time on duty must be reported.

(4) A train employee returns to duty without additional time off duty, equal to the total amount of time by which the employee's sum of total time on duty and time spent awaiting or in deadhead transportation to the point of final release exceeds 12 hours.

(5) A train employee exceeds a cumulative total of 276 hours in the following activities in a calendar month:

(i) Time spent in covered service;

(ii) Time spent awaiting or in deadhead transportation from a duty assignment to the place of final release; and

(iii) Time spent in any other service at the behest of the railroad.

(6) A train employee initiates an on-duty period on more than 6 consecutive days, when the on-duty period on the sixth consecutive day ended at the employee's home terminal, and the seventh consecutive day is not allowed pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or pilot project.

(7) A train employee returns to duty after initiating an on-duty period on 6 consecutive days, without 48 consecutive hours off duty at the employee's home terminal.

(8) A train employee initiates an on-duty period on more than 7 consecutive days.

(9) A train employee returns to duty after initiating an on-duty period on 7 consecutive days, without 72 consecutive hours off duty at the employee's home terminal.

(10) A train employee exceeds the following limitations on time spent awaiting or in deadhead transportation from a duty assignment to the place of final release following a period of 12 consecutive hours on duty:

(i) 40 hours in any calendar month completed prior to October 1, 2009;

(ii) 20 hours in the transition period from October 1, 2009-October 15, 2009;

(iii) 15 hours in the transition period from October 16, 2009-October 31, 2009; and

(iv) 30 hours in any calendar month completed after October 31, 2009.
