
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 228 - PASSENGER TRAIN EMPLOYEE HOURS OF SERVICE; RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING; SLEEPING QUARTERS
##### Subpart D - Electronic Recordkeeping System and Automated Recordkeeping System
###### ยง 228.203 Program components.
####### System security.

(a)The integrity of the program and database must be protected by a security system that utilizes an employee identification number and password, or a comparable method, to establish appropriate levels of program access meeting all of the following standards:

(1) Data input is restricted to the employee or train crew or signal gang whose time is being recorded, with the following exceptions:

(i) A railroad, or a contractor or subcontractor to a railroad, may allow its recordkeeping system to pre-populate fields of the hours of service record provided that-

(A) The recordkeeping system pre-populates fields of the hours of service record with information known to the railroad, or contractor or subcontractor to the railroad, to be factually accurate for a specific employee.

(B) The recordkeeping system may also provide the ability for employees to copy data from one field of a record into another field, where applicable.

(C) Estimated, historical, or arbitrary data are not used to pre-populate any field of an hours of service record.

(D) A railroad, or a contractor or a subcontractor to a railroad, is not in violation of this paragraph if it makes a good faith judgment as to the factual accuracy of the data for a specific employee but nevertheless errs in pre-populating a data field.

(E) The employee may make any necessary changes to the data by typing into the field, without having to access another screen or obtain clearance from the railroad, or a contractor or subcontractor to a railroad.

(ii) A railroad, or a contractor or a subcontractor to a railroad, shall allow employees to complete a verbal quick tie-up, or to transmit by facsimile or other electronic means the information necessary for a quick tie-up, if-

(A) The employee is released from duty at a location at which there is no terminal available;

(B) Computer systems are unavailable as a result of technical issues; or

(C) Access to computer terminals is delayed and the employee has exceeded his or her maximum allowed time on duty.

(2) No two individuals have the same electronic identity.

(3) A record cannot be deleted or altered by any individual after the record is certified by the employee who created the record.

(4) Any amendment to a record is either-

(i) Electronically stored apart from the record that it amends, or

(ii) Electronically attached to the record as information without changing the original record.

(5) Each amendment to a record uniquely identifies the individual making the amendment.

(6) The electronic system provides for the maintenance of inspection records as originally submitted without corruption or loss of data.

(7) Supervisors and crew management officials can access, but cannot delete or alter the records of any employee after the report-for-duty time of the employee or after the record has been certified by the reporting employee.
