
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 228 - PASSENGER TRAIN EMPLOYEE HOURS OF SERVICE; RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING; SLEEPING QUARTERS
##### Subpart F - Substantive Hours of Service Requirements for Train Employees Engaged in Commuter or Intercity Rail Passenger Transportation
###### ยง 228.407 Analysis of work schedules; submissions; FRA review and approval of submissions; fatigue mitigation plans.
####### Analysis of certain later changes in work schedules.

(d)(1) Additional follow-up analysis must be performed each time that the railroad changes one of its work schedules in a manner-

(i) That would differ from the FRA-approved parameters for hours of duty of any work schedule previously analyzed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or

(ii) That would alter the work schedule to the extent that train employees who work the schedule may be at risk of experiencing a level of fatigue that violates the FRA-approved fatigue threshold established by paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Such additional follow-up analysis must be submitted for FRA approval as provided under paragraph (b) of this section, as soon as practicable, prior to the use of the new schedule for an employee subject to this subpart. FRA approval is not necessary before a new schedule may be used; however, a schedule that has been disapproved by FRA may not be used.

(3) FRA will review submitted revised work schedules, and any accompanying fatigue mitigation tools, and determinations of operational necessity. If FRA identifies any exceptions to the submitted information, the agency will notify the railroad as soon as possible. Railroads are required to correct any deficiencies identified by FRA within the time frame specified by FRA.
