
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 228 - PASSENGER TRAIN EMPLOYEE HOURS OF SERVICE; RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING; SLEEPING QUARTERS
##### Subpart F - Substantive Hours of Service Requirements for Train Employees Engaged in Commuter or Intercity Rail Passenger Transportation
###### ยง 228.407 Analysis of work schedules; submissions; FRA review and approval of submissions; fatigue mitigation plans.
####### Submission of models for FRA approval; validated models already accepted by FRA.

(c)(1) If a railroad subject to this subpart wishes to use a model of human performance and fatigue, not previously approved by FRA, for the purpose of making part or all of the analysis required by paragraph (a) or (d) of this section, the railroad shall submit the model and evidence in support of its scientific validation, for the approval of the Associate Administrator. Decisions of the Associate Administrator regarding the validity of a model are subject to review under ยง 211.55 of this chapter.

(2) A railroad may use a model that is already accepted by FRA. FRA has approved the Fatigue Avoidance Scheduling Tool(FAST) issued on July 15, 2009, by Fatigue Science, Inc. (with a fatigue threshold for the purpose of this regulation less than or equal to 70 for 20 percent or more of the time worked in a duty tour), and Fatigue Audit InterDyne(FAID) version 2, issued in September 2007 by InterDynamics Pty Ltd. (Australian Company Number (ACN) 057 037 635) (with a fatigue threshold for the purpose of this regulation greater than or equal to 72 for 20 percent or more of the time worked in a duty tour) as scientifically valid, biomathematical models of human performance and fatigue for the purpose of making the analysis required by paragraph (a) or (d) of this section. Other versions of the models identified in this paragraph must be submitted to FRA for approval prior to use as provided by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) If a new model is submitted to FRA for approval, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, FRA will publish notice of the submission in theand will provide an opportunity for comment, prior to the Associate Administrator's making a final determination as to its disposition. If the Associate Administrator approves a new model as having been validated and calibrated, so that it can be used for schedule analysis in compliance with this regulation, FRA will also publish notice of this determination in the
