
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 228 - PASSENGER TRAIN EMPLOYEE HOURS OF SERVICE; RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING; SLEEPING QUARTERS
##### Subpart F - Substantive Hours of Service Requirements for Train Employees Engaged in Commuter or Intercity Rail Passenger Transportation
###### ยง 228.407 Analysis of work schedules; submissions; FRA review and approval of submissions; fatigue mitigation plans.
####### Submissions of certain work schedules and any fatigue mitigation plans and determinations of operational necessity or declarations; FRA review and approval.

(b)(1) No later than April 12, 2012, the railroad shall submit for approval to the Associate Administrator the work schedules described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. The railroad shall identify and group the work schedules as follows:

(i) Work schedules that the railroad has found, using a validated model (as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or approved by FRA in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section) to present a risk for a level of fatigue that violates the applicable fatigue threshold, but that the railroad has determined can be mitigated by the use of fatigue mitigation tools so as to present a risk for a level of fatigue that does not violate the applicable fatigue threshold. The fatigue mitigation tools that will be used to mitigate the fatigue risk presented by the schedule must also be submitted.

(ii) Work schedules that the railroad has found, using a validated model (as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or approved by FRA in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section), to present a risk for a level of fatigue that violates the applicable fatigue threshold, but that the railroad has determined cannot be mitigated so as to present a risk for a level of fatigue that does not violate the applicable fatigue threshold by the use of fatigue mitigation tools, and that the railroad has determined are operationally necessary. The basis for the determination must also be submitted.

(2) If a railroad performs the analysis of its schedules required by paragraph (a) of this section, and determines that none of them violates the applicable fatigue threshold, and therefore none of them presents a risk for fatigue that requires it to be submitted to the Associate Administrator pursuant to this paragraph, that railroad shall, no later than April 12, 2012, submit to the Associate Administrator a written declaration, signed by an officer of the railroad, that the railroad has performed the required analysis and determined that it has no schedule that is required to be submitted.

(3) FRA will review submitted work schedules, proposed fatigue mitigation tools, and determinations of operational necessity. If FRA identifies any exceptions to the submitted information, the agency will notify the railroad within 120 days of receipt of the railroad's submission. Railroads are required to correct any deficiencies identified by FRA within the time frame specified by FRA.

(4) FRA will audit railroad work schedules and fatigue mitigation tools every two years to ensure compliance with this section.
