
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 228 - PASSENGER TRAIN EMPLOYEE HOURS OF SERVICE; RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING; SLEEPING QUARTERS
##### Appendix A to Part 228 - Requirements of the Hours of Service Act: Statement of Agency Policy and Interpretation
###### Duty time and effective periods of release.

On-duty time commences when an employee reports at the time and place specified by the railroad and terminates when the employee is finally released of all responsibilities. (Time spent in deadhead transportation to a duty assignment is also counted as time on duty. See discussion below.) Any period available for rest that is of four or more hours and is at a designated terminal is off-duty time. All other periods available for rest must be counted as time on duty under the law, regardless of their duration.

The term "designated terminal" means a terminal (1) which is designated in or under a collective bargaining agreement as the "home" or "away-from-home" terminal for a particular crew assignment and (2) which has suitable facilities for food and lodging. Carrier and union representatives may agree to establish additional designated terminals having such facilities as points of effective release under the Act. Agreements to designate additional terminals for purposes of release under the Act should be reduced to writing and should make reference to the particular assignments affected and to the Hours of Service Act. The following are common situations illustrating the designated terminal concept:

(1) A freight or passenger road crew operates a train from home terminal "A" to away-from-home terminal "B" (or the reverse). Terminals "A" and "B" would normally be the designated terminals for this specific crew assignment. However, carrier and employee representatives may agree to designate additional terminals having suitable facilities for food and lodging as appropriate points of release under the Hours of Service Act.

(2) A road crew operates a train in turn-around service from home terminal "A" to turn-around point "B" and back to "A". Terminal "A" is the only designated terminal for this specific crew assignment, unless carrier and employee representatives have agreed to designate additional terminals having suitable facilities for food and lodging.

(3) A crew is assigned to operate a maintenance-of-way work train from home terminal "A", work on line of road and tie up for rest along the line of road at point "B". Home terminal "A" and tie-up point "B" both qualify as designated terminals for this specific work train crew assignment. Of course, suitable facilities for food and lodging must be available at tie-up point "B".
