
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart D - Operating Administrations
##### ยง 1.89 Delegations to the Federal Railroad Administrator.
###### et seq.,et seq.,et seq.

(a) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. Subtitle V, Part A (Safety, chapter 201), Part B (Assistance, chapter 221), Part C (Passenger Transportation, chapter 241), Part D (High-speed Rail, chapter 261), and section 28101 of Part E, relating to the law enforcement authority of railroad police officers; except 49 U.S.C. 20134 with respect to highway, traffic, and motor vehicle safety and highway construction.

(b) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-432, Div. A, 122 Stat. 4848).

(c) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-432, Div. B, 122 Stat. 4907), except Title VI (122 Stat. 4968) as it relates to capital and preventive maintenance projects for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority.

(d) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5 (as it relates to railroad bridges not over navigable waterways) and section 8(a) (as it relates to railroad bridges) of the International Bridge Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-434, 86 Stat. 731) (33 U.S.C. 535c and 535e(a)).
