
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 229 - RAILROAD LOCOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Inspections and Tests
###### § 229.21 Daily inspection.

(a) Except for MU locomotives, each locomotive in use shall be inspected at least once during each calendar day. A written report of the inspection shall be made. This report shall contain the name of the carrier; the initials and number of the locomotive; the place, date and time of the inspection; a description of the non-complying conditions disclosed by the inspection; and the signature of the employee making the inspection. Except as provided in §§ 229.9, 229.137, and 229.139, any conditions that constitute non-compliance with any requirement of this part shall be repaired before the locomotive is used. Except with respect to conditions that do not comply with § 229.137 or § 229.139, a notation shall be made on the report indicating the nature of the repairs that have been made. Repairs made for conditions that do not comply with § 229.137 or § 229.139 may be noted on the report, or in electronic form. The person making the repairs shall sign the report. The report shall be filed and retained for at least 92 days in the office of the carrier at the terminal at which the locomotive is cared for. A record shall be maintained on each locomotive showing the place, date and time of the previous inspection.

(b) Each MU locomotive in use shall be inspected at least once during each calendar day and a written report of the inspection shall be made. This report may be part of a single master report covering an entire group of MU's. If any non-complying conditions are found, a separate, individual report shall be made containing the name of the carrier; the initials and number of the locomotive; the place, date, and time of the inspection; the non-complying conditions found; and the signature of the inspector. Except as provided in §§ 229.9, 229.137, and 229.139, any conditions that constitute non-compliance with any requirement of this part shall be repaired before the locomotive is used. Except with respect to conditions that do not comply with § 229.137 or § 229.139, a notation shall be made on the report indicating the nature of the repairs that have been made. Repairs made for conditions that do not comply with § 229.137 or § 229.139 may be noted on the report, or in electronic form. A notation shall be made on the report indicating the nature of the repairs that have been made. The person making the repairs shall sign the report. The report shall be filed in the office of the carrier at the place where the inspection is made or at one central location and retained for at least 92 days.

(c) Each carrier shall designate qualified persons to make the inspections required by this section.
