
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 229 - RAILROAD LOCOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Inspections and Tests
###### ยง 229.31 Main reservoir tests.

(a) Before it is placed in service, each main reservoir other than an aluminum reservoir shall be subjected to a pneumatic or hydrostatic pressure of at least 25 percent more than the maximum working pressure fixed by the chief mechanical officer. The test date, place, and pressure shall be recorded on Form FRA F 6180-49A, block eighteen. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, at intervals that do not exceed 736 calendar days, each main reservoir other than an aluminum reservoir shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure of at least 25 percent more than the maximum working pressure fixed by the chief mechanical officer. The test date, place, and pressure shall be recorded on Form FRA F 6180-49A, and the person performing the test and that person's supervisor shall sign the form.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, each main reservoir other than an aluminum reservoir shall be hammer tested over its entire surface while the reservoir is empty at intervals that do not exceed 736 calendar days. The test date and place shall be recorded on Form FRA F 6180-49A, and the person performing the test and that person's supervisor shall sign the form.

(c) Each welded main reservoir originally constructed to withstand at least five times the maximum working pressure fixed by the chief mechanical officer may be drilled over its entire surface with telltale holes that are three-sixteenths of an inch in diameter. The holes shall be spaced not more than 12 inches apart, measured both longitudinally and circumferentially, and drilled from the outer surface to an extreme depth determined by the formula-

One row of holes shall be drilled lengthwise of the reservoir on a line intersecting the drain opening. A reservoir so drilled does not have to meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, except the requirement for a pneumatic or hydrostatic test before it is placed in use. Whenever any such telltale hole shall have penetrated the interior of any reservoir, the reservoir shall be permanently withdrawn from service. A reservoir now in use may be drilled in lieu of the tests provided for by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, but shall receive a hydrostatic test before it is returned to use or may receive a pneumatic test if conducted by the manufacturer in an appropriately safe environment.

(d) Each aluminum main reservoir before being placed in use and at intervals that do not exceed 736 calendar days thereafter, shall be-

(1) Cleaned and given a thorough visual inspection of all internal and external surfaces for evidence of defects or deterioration; and

(2) Subjected to a hydrostatic pressure at least twice the maximum working pressure fixed by the chief mechanical officer, but not less than 250 p.s.i. The test date, place, and pressure shall be recorded on Form FRA F 6180-49A, and the person conducting the test and that person's supervisor shall sign the form.
