
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 229 - RAILROAD LOCOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Safety Requirements
###### Brake System
####### ยง 229.51 Aluminum main reservoirs.

(a) Aluminum main reservoirs used on locomotives shall be designed and fabricated as follows:

(1) The heads and shell shall be made of Aluminum Association Alloy No. 5083-0, produced in accordance with American Society of Mechnical Engineers (ASME) Specification SB-209, as defined in the "ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code" (1971 edition), section II, Part B, page 123, with a minimum tensile strength of 40,000 p.s.i. (40 k.s.i.).

(2) Each aluminum main reservoir shall be designed and fabricated in accordance with the "ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code," section VIII, Division I (1971 edition), except as otherwise provided in this part.

(3) An aluminum main reservoir shall be constructed to withstand at least five times its maximum working pressure or 800 p.s.i., whichever is greater.

(4) Each aluminum main reservoir shall have at least two inspection openings to permit complete circumferential visual observation of the interior surface. On reservoirs less than 18 inches in diameter, the size of each inspection opening shall be at least that of 1-inch threaded iron pipe, and on reservoirs 18 or more inches in diameter, the size of each opening shall be at least that of 2-inch threaded iron pipe.

(b) The following publications, which contain the industry standards incorporated by reference in paragraph (a) of this section, may be obtained from the publishers and are also on file in the Office of Safety of the Federal Railroad Administration, Washington, DC 20590. Sections II and VIII of the "ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code" (1971 edition) are published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, United Engineering Center, 345 East 47th Street, New York, New York 10017.
