
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 229 - RAILROAD LOCOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Safety Requirements
###### Suspension System
####### ยง 229.75 Wheels and tire defects.

Wheels and tires may not have any of the following conditions:

(a) A single flat spot that is 2inches or more in length, or two adjoining spots that are each two or more inches in length.

(b) A gouge or chip in the flange that is more than 1inches in length andinch in width.

(c) A broken rim, if the tread, measured from the flange at a point five-eighths inch above the tread, is less than 3inches in width.

(d) A shelled-out spot 2inches or more in length, or two adjoining spots that are each two or more inches in length.

(e) A seam running lengthwise that is within 3inches of the flange.

(f) A flange worn to ainch thickness or less, gauged at a pointinch above the tread.

(g) A tread worn hollowinch or more on a locomotive in road service orinch or more on a locomotive in switching service.

(h) A flange height of 1inches or more measured from tread to the top of the flange.

(i) Tires less than 1inches thick.

(j) Rims less than 1 inch thick on a locomotive in road service or less thaninch on a locomotive in yard service.

(k) A crack or break in the flange, tread, rim, plate, or hub.

(l) A loose wheel or tire.

(m) Fusion welding may not be used on tires or steel wheels of locomotives, except for the repair of flat spots and worn flanges on locomotives used exclusively in yard service. A wheel that has been welded is a welded wheel for the life of the wheel.
