
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 229 - RAILROAD LOCOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Safety Requirements
###### Cabs and Cab Equipment
####### § 229.141 Body structure, MU locomotives.

(a) MU locomotives built new after April 1, 1956 that are operated in trains having a total empty weight of 600,000 pounds or more shall have a body structure designed to meet or exceed the following minimum specifications:

(1) The body structure shall resist a minimum static end load of 800,000 pounds at the rear draft stops ahead of the bolster on the center line of draft, without developing any permanent deformation in any member of the body structure.

(2) An anti-climbing arrangement shall be applied at each end that is designed so that coupled MU locomotives under full compression shall mate in a manner that will resist one locomotive from climbing the other. This arrangement shall resist a vertical load of 100,000 pounds without exceeding the yield point of its various parts or its attachments to the body structure.

(3) The coupler carrier and its connections to the body structure shall be designed to resist a vertical downward thrust from the coupler shank of 100,000 pounds for any horizontal position of the coupler, without exceeding the yield points of the materials used. When yielding type of coupler carrier is used, an auxiliary arrangement shall be provided that complies with these requirements.

(4) The outside end of each locomotive shall be provided with two main vertical members, one at each side of the diaphragm opening; each main member shall have an ultimate shear value of not less than 300,000 pounds at a point even with the top of the underframe member to which it is attached. The attachment of these members at bottom shall be sufficient to develop their full shear value. If reinforcement is used to provide the shear value, the reinforcement shall have full value for a distance of 18 inches up from the underframe connection and then taper to a point approximately 30 inches above the underframe connection.

(5) The strength of the means of locking the truck to the body shall be at least the equivalent of an ultimate shear value of 250,000 pounds.

(6) On or after November 8, 1999, paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to "passenger equipment" as defined in § 238.5 of this chapter, unless such equipment is excluded from the requirements of §§ 238.203 through 238.219, and § 238.223 of this chapter by operation of § 238.201(a)(2) of this chapter. Paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(4) of this section do not apply to "passenger equipment" as defined in § 238.5 of this chapter that is placed in service for the first time on or after September 8, 2000, unless such equipment is excluded from the requirements of §§ 238.203 through 238.219, and § 238.223 of this chapter by operation of § 238.201(a)(2) of this chapter.

(b) MU locomotives built new after April 1, 1956 that are operated in trains having a total empty weight of less than 600,000 pounds shall have a body structure designed to meet or exceed the following minimum specifications:

(1) The body structure shall resist a minimum static end load of 400,000 pounds at the rear draft stops ahead of the bolster on the center line of draft, without developing any permanent deformation in any member of the body structure.

(2) An anti-climbing arrangement shall be applied at each end that is designed so that coupled locomotives under full compression shall mate in a manner that will resist one locomotive from climbing the other. This arrangement shall resist a vertical load of 75,000 pounds without exceeding the yield point of its various parts or its attachments to the body structure.

(3) The coupler carrier and its connections to the body structure shall be designed to resist a vertical downward thrust from the coupled shank of 75,000 pounds for any horizontal position of the coupler, without exceeding the yield points of the materials used. When a yielding type of coupler carrier is used, an auxiliary arrangement shall be provided that complies with these requirements.

(4) The outside end of each MU locomotive shall be provided with two main vertical members, one at each side of the diaphragm opening; each main member shall have an ultimate shear value of not less than 200,000 pounds at a point even with the top of the underframe member to which it is attached. The attachment of these members at bottom shall be sufficient to develop their full shear value, the reinforcement shall have full value for a distance of 18 inches up from the underframe connection and then taper to a point approximately 30 inches above the underframe connection.

(5) The strength of the means of locking the truck to the body shall be at least the equivalent of an ultimate shear value of 250,000 pounds.

(6) On or after November 8, 1999, paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to "passenger equipment" as defined in § 238.5 of this chapter, unless such equipment is excluded from the requirements of §§ 238.203 through 238.219, and § 238.223 of this chapter by operation of § 238.201(a)(2) of this chapter. Paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(4) of this section do not apply to "passenger equipment" as defined in § 238.5 of this chapter that is placed in service for the first time on or after September 8, 2000, unless such equipment is excluded from the requirements of §§ 238.203 through 238.219, and § 238.223 of this chapter by operation of § 238.201(a)(2) of this chapter.
