
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 229 - RAILROAD LOCOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Locomotive Crashworthiness Design Requirements
###### § 229.205 General requirements.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html;

(1) Meeting an FRA-approved crashworthiness design standard (including AAR S-580, Locomotive Crashworthiness Requirements). The Director of the Federal Register approves incorporation by reference of the AAR S-580 (revised July 2005), "Locomotive Crashworthiness Requirements," in this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of the incorporated standard from the Association of American Railroads, 50 F Street NW, Washington, DC 20001. You may inspect a copy of the incorporated standard at the Federal Railroad Administration, Docket Clerk, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to

(2) Meeting new design standards and changes to existing design standards approved by FRA pursuant to § 229.207; or

(3) Meeting an alternative crashworthiness design approved by FRA pursuant to § 229.209.

(b) A monocoque or semi-monocoque design locomotive must be designed in accordance with the provisions of AAR S-580, applicable to those types of locomotives, in accordance with §§ 238.405(a), 238.409 and 238.411 of this chapter, or in accordance with a standard or design approved by FRA as providing at least equivalent safety.

(c) A narrow-nose locomotive must be designed in accordance with the provisions of AAR S-580, applicable to that type of locomotive (notwithstanding any limitation of scope contained in that standard) or in accordance with a standard or design approved by FRA as providing at least equivalent safety.
