
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 230 - STEAM LOCOMOTIVE INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 230.3 Implementation.
####### Petition process.

(1)Petitions must be filed by January 18, 2001 and must be accompanied by all relevant documentation to be considered, including a FRA Form No. 4 (see appendix C of this part) that has been calculated in accordance with ยง 230.17, and all records that demonstrate the number of days the locomotive has been in service. Based upon the documentation provided, FRA will calculate the number of "service days" the locomotive has accrued and will notify the petitioner of the number of service days that remain in the locomotive's 1472 service day cycle. Petitions should be sent to FRA by some form of registered mail to ensure a record of delivery. FRA will investigate these petitions and will respond to these petitions within one year of their receipt. FRA will send its response by some form of registered mail to ensure that a record of delivery is created. In its response, FRA may grant the petition or deny it. If FRA grants the petition, the entirety of the revised requirements will become effective upon receipt of FRA's response, unless FRA's response indicates otherwise. If FRA denies the petition, the rule will become effective as provided in the first paragraph of this section.
