
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 230 - STEAM LOCOMOTIVE INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 230.6 Waivers.

(a) A person subject to a requirement of this part may petition the Administrator of FRA for a waiver of compliance with such requirement. The filing of such a petition does not affect that person's responsibility for compliance with that requirement while the petition is being considered.

(b) Each petition for waiver under this section must be filed in the manner and contain the information required by part 211 of this chapter.

(c) If the Administrator finds that a waiver of compliance is in the public interest and is consistent with railroad safety, the Administrator may grant the waiver subject to any conditions the Administrator deems necessary. Where a waiver is granted, the Administrator publishes a notice containing the reasons for granting the waiver.

(d) All waivers of every form and type from any requirement of any order or regulation implementing the Locomotive Boiler Inspection Act, 36 Stat. 913, as amended, 49 U.S.C. 20702, applicable to one or more steam locomotives, shall lapse on January 18, 2000 unless a copy of the grant of waiver is filed for reassessment prior to that date with the Office of Safety, Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590. FRA will review the waiver and notify the applicant whether the waiver has been continued.
