
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 230 - STEAM LOCOMOTIVE INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
##### Appendix A to Part 230 - Inspection Requirements

The lists in this appendix are intended as guidance only. Adherence to this list does not relieve the steam locomotive owner and/or operator of responsibility for either: (1) Completing the inspection and maintenance requirements described in this part; or (2) ensuring that the steam locomotive, tender and its parts and appurtenances are safe and suitable for service.

1. Observance of lifting pressure of the lowest safety valve.

2. Testing of water glasses and gauge cocks.*

3. Inspection of tubular water glass shields.

4. Inspection of all cab lamps.*

5. Inspection of boiler feedwater delivery systems.*

6. Inspection of lagging for indication of leaks.

7. Inspection for leaks obstructing vision of engine crew.

8. Observance of compressor(s) and governor to ascertain proper operation.*

9. Inspection of brake and signal equipment.*

10. Inspection of brake cylinders for piston travel.

11. Inspection of foundation brake gear.

12. Inspection of sanders.*

13. Inspection of draw gear and chafing irons.

14. Inspection of draft gear.

15. Inspection of crossheads and guides.

16. Inspection of piston rods and fasteners.

17. Inspection of main, side, and valve motion rods.

18. Inspection of headlights and classification lamps.*

19. Inspection of running gear.

20. Inspection of tender frames and tanks.

21. Inspection of tender trucks for amount of side bearing clearance.

1. Washing of boiler.

2. Cleaning and inspection of water glass valves and gauge cocks.

3. Cleaning, washing and inspection of arch tubes, water bar tubes, circulators and siphons.

4. Removal and inspection of all washout and water tube plugs.

5. Testing of all staybolts.

6. Removal, cleaning and inspection of fusible plugs (if any).

1. Removal and testing of all air and steam gauges.

2. Cleaning of steam gauge siphon pipe.

3. Renewal of tubular water glasses.

4. Testing and adjusting of safety relief valves.

5. Testing of main reservoir and brake cylinder leakage.

6. Entering and inspection of tender tank interior.

1. Testing of thickness of arch and water bar tubes (arch brick to be removed)

2. Hydrostatic testing of boiler.

3. Testing of all staybolts.

4. Interior inspection of boiler.

5. Thickness verification of dry pipes.

6. Smoke box inspection.

7. Main reservoir hammer or UT testing and hydrostatic testing (for non-welded and drilled main reservoirs)

8. Removal and inspection of steam locomotive drawbar(s) and pins (NDE testing other than merely visual)

9. Inspection of longitudinal lap joint boiler seams.

1. Inspection of flexible staybolt caps and sleeves.

1. Removal of boiler flues (as necessary) and cleaning of boiler interior.

2. Removal of jacket and lagging and inspection of boiler interior and exterior.

3. Hydrostatic testing of boiler.

4. Thickness verification (boiler survey) and recomputation and update of steam locomotive specification card, (FRA Form No. 4).
