
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 231 - RAILROAD SAFETY APPLIANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 231.1 Box and other house cars built or placed in service before October 1, 1966.
###### Manner of application.

(4)(i) There shall be not less than 4 inches clearance around rim of brake wheel.

(ii) Outside edge of brake wheel shall be not less than 4 inches from a vertical plane parallel with end of car and passing through the inside face of knuckle when closed with coupler horn against the buffer block or end sill.

(iii) Top brake-shaft support shall be fastened with not less than-inch bolts or rivets. (See plate A.)

(iv) A brake-shaft step shall support the lower end of brake shaft. A brake-shaft step which will permit the brake chain to drop under the brake shaft shall not be used. U-shaped form of brakeshaft step is preferred. (See plate A.)

(v) Brake shaft shall be arranged with a square fit at its upper end to secure the hand-brake wheel; said square fit shall be not less than seven-eighths of an inch square. Square-fit taper, nominally 2 in 12 inches. (See plate A.)

(vi) Brake chain shall be of not less than-, preferably-, inch wrought iron or steel, with a link on the brakerod end of not less than-, preferably-, inch wrought iron or steel, and shall be secured to brake-shaft drum by not less than-inch hexagon or square-headed bolt. Nut on said bolt shall be secured by riveting end of bolt over nut. (See plate A.)

(vii) Lower end of brake shaft shall be provided with a trunnion of not less than-, preferably 1, inch in diameter extending through brake-shaft step and held in operating position by a suitable cotter or ring. (See plate A.)

(viii) Brake-shaft drum shall be not less than 1inches in diameter. (See plate A.)

(ix) Brake ratchet wheel shall be secured to brake shaft by a key or square fit; said square fit shall be not less than 1inches square. When ratchet wheel with square fit is used, provision shall be made to prevent ratchet wheel from rising on shaft to disengage brake pawl. (See plate A.)

(x) Brake ratchet wheel shall be not less than 5, preferably 5, inches in diameter and shall have not less than 14, preferably 16, teeth. (See plate A.)

(xi) If brake ratchet wheel is more than 36 inches from brake wheel, a brake-shaft support shall be provided to support this extended upper portion of brake shaft; said brake-shaft support shall be fastened with not less than-inch bolts or rivets.

(xii) The brake pawl shall be pivoted upon a bolt or rivet not less than five-eighths of an inch in diameter, or upon a trunnion secured by not less than-inch bolt or rivet, and there shall be a rigid metal connection between brake shaft and pivot of pawl.

(xiii) Brake wheel shall be held in position on brake shaft by a nut on a threaded extended end of brake shaft; said threaded portion shall be not less than three-fourths of an inch in diameter; said nut shall be secured by riveting over or by the use of a lock nut or suitable cotter.

(xiv) Brake wheel shall be arranged with a square fit for brake shaft in hub of said wheel; taper of said fit, nominally 2 in 12 inches. (See plate A.)
