
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart D - Operating Administrations
##### ยง 1.89 Delegations to the Federal Railroad Administrator.
###### et seq.

(k) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 7 of Executive Order 12580 (delegating sections 108 and 109, respectively, of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 as amended (49 U.S.C. 9615), insofar as they relate to rolling stock.

(l) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 33 U.S.C. 493, relating to disputes over the terms and compensation for use of railroad bridges built under that statute.

(m) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5701 with respect to transportation of food and other products by railroad.

(n) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 322 (Magnetic Levitation Transportation Technology Deployment Program).

(o) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by sections 1307 (see note to 23 U.S.C. 322), and 1946 of SAFETEA-LU as they relate to deployment of magnetic levitation transportation projects and a study of rail transportation and regulation.

(p) Carry out the function vested in the Secretary by the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 1163), which relates to the nomination of trustees for rail carriers in reorganization, with the concurrence of the Office of the General Counsel.

(q) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 327, as it relates to railroad projects.

(r) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by the sections 1318(d) and 1534 of Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405), as they relate to railroads.

(s) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 2(d)(2) of Executive Order 12777, with respect to rail transportation, relating to the approval of means to ensure the availability of private personnel and equipment to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a worst case discharge, the review and approval of response plans, and the authorization of railroads to operate without approved response plans.
