
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 231 - RAILROAD SAFETY APPLIANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 231.17 Specifications common to all steam locomotives.
###### Tenders of Vanderbilt type.

(d)(1) Tenders known as the Vanderbilt type shall be equipped with running boards; one on each side of tender not less than 10 inches in width and one on top of tender not less than 48 inches in width, extending from coal space to rear of tender.

(2) There shall be a handrail on each side of top running board, extending from coal space to rear of tank, not less than 1 inch in diameter and not less than 20 inches in height above running board from coal space to manhole.

(3) There shall be a handrail extending from coal space to within 12 inches of rear of tank, attached to each side of tank above side running board not less than 30 nor more than 66 inches above running board.

(4) There shall be one vertical end handhold on each side of Vanderbilt type of tender, located within 8 inches of rear of tank extending from within 8 inches of top of end sill to within 8 inches of side handrail. Post supporting rear end of side running board, if not more than 2 inches in diameter and properly located, may form section of handhold.

(5) An additional horizontal end handhold shall be applied on rear end of all Vanderbilt type of tenders which are not equipped with vestibules. Handhold to be located not less than 30 nor more than 66 inches above top of end sill. Clear length of handhold to be not less than 48 inches.

(6) Ladders shall be applied at forward ends of side running boards.
