
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 231 - RAILROAD SAFETY APPLIANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 231.23 Unidirectional passenger-train cars adaptable to van-type semi-trailer use.
###### Location.

(3)End-sill: One (1) near each side at the rear or trailing end of car on face of end-sill or sheathing over end-sill, projecting outward or downward. Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be not more than sixteen (16) inches from side of car.

(i) Lower: One near each side of the rear or trailing end of car, not less than twenty-four (24) nor more than thirty (30) inches above center line of coupler.

(ii) Upper: One (1) near each side at the rear or trailing end of car not less than fifteen (15) nor more than nineteen (19) inches above lower handholds. Clearance of outer ends of lower and upper handholds shall be not more than eight (8) inches from side of car. Lower and upper handholds shall be spaced to coincide with corresponding side handholds, a variation of two (2) inches being allowed. On front end of car there shall be one (1) additional end handhold full length of car not less than forty (40) nor more than fifty (50) inches above center line of coupler. Clearance of each end of handhold shall be not more than eight (8) inches from side of car. When construction will not permit the use of a single handhold, four (4) handholds, each not less than sixteen (16) inches in length may be used, provided dimensions and location coincide.
