
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 26 - PARTICIPATION BY DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES IN DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 26.11 What records do recipients keep and report?
###### e.g.,

(3) You may acquire the information for your bidders list in a variety of ways. For example, you can collect the data from all bidders, before or after the bid due date. You can conduct a survey that will result in statistically sound estimate of the universe of DBE and non-DBE contractors and subcontractors who seek to work on your Federally-assisted contracts. You may combine different data collection approaches (collect name and address information from all bidders, while conducting a survey with respect to age and gross receipts information).

(d) You must maintain records documenting a firm's compliance with the requirements of this part. At a minimum, you must keep a complete application package for each certified firm and all affidavits of no-change, change notices, and on-site reviews. These records must be retained in accordance with applicable record retention requirements for the recipient's financial assistance agreement. Other certification or compliance related records must be retained for a minimum of three (3) years unless otherwise provided by applicable record retention requirements for the recipient's financial assistance agreement, whichever is longer.

(e) The State department of transportation in each UCP established pursuant to ยง 26.81 of this part must report to the Department of Transportation's Office of Civil Rights, by January 1, 2015, and each year thereafter, the percentage and location in the State of certified DBE firms in the UCP Directory controlled by the following:

(1) Women;

(2) Socially and economically disadvantaged individuals (other than women); and

(3) Individuals who are women and are otherwise socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.
