
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 26 - PARTICIPATION BY DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES IN DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
#### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements for DBE Programs for Federally-Assisted Contracting
##### ยง 26.35 What role do business development and mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; programs have in the DBE program?

(a) You may or, if an operating administration directs you to, you must establish a DBE business development program (BDP) to assist firms in gaining the ability to compete successfully in the marketplace outside the DBE program. You may require a DBE firm, as a condition of receiving assistance through the BDP, to agree to terminate its participation in the DBE program after a certain time has passed or certain objectives have been reached. See Appendix C of this part for guidance on administering BDP programs.

(b) As part of a BDP or separately, you may establish a "mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;" program, in which another DBE or non-DBE firm is the principal source of business development assistance to a DBE firm.

(1) Only firms you have certified as DBEs before they are proposed for participation in a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program are eligible to participate in the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program.

(2) During the course of the mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship, you must:

(i) Not award DBE credit to a non-DBE mentor firm for using its own prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm for more than one half of its goal on any contract let by the recipient; and

(ii) Not award DBE credit to a non-DBE mentor firm for using its own prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm for more than every other contract performed by the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firm.

(3) For purposes of making determinations of business size under this part, you must not treat prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; firms as affiliates of mentor firms, when both firms are participating under an approved mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program. See Appendix D of this part for guidance concerning the operation of mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; programs.

(c) Your BDPs and mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; programs must be approved by the concerned operating administration before you implement them. Once approved, they become part of your DBE program.
