
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 232 - BRAKE SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS FOR FREIGHT AND OTHER NON-PASSENGER TRAINS AND EQUIPMENT; END-OF-TRAIN DEVICES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 232.15 Movement of defective equipment.
####### General provision.,all

(a)Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a railroad car or locomotive with one or more conditions not in compliance with this part may be used or hauled without civil penalty liability under this part only ifof the following conditions are met:

(1) The defective car or locomotive is properly equipped in accordance with the applicable provisions of 49 U.S.C. chapter 203 and the requirements of this part.

(2) The car or locomotive becomes defective while it is being used by the railroad on its line or becomes defective on the line of a connecting railroad and is properly accepted in interchange for repairs in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section.

(3) The railroad first discovers the defective condition of the car or locomotive prior to moving it for repairs.

(4) The movement of the defective car or locomotive for repairs is from the location where the car or locomotive is first discovered defective by the railroad.

(5) The defective car or locomotive cannot be repaired at the location where the railroad first discovers it to be defective.

(6) The movement of the car or locomotive is necessary to make repairs to the defective condition.

(7) The location to which the car or locomotive is being taken for repair is the nearest available location where necessary repairs can be performed on the line of the railroad where the car or locomotive was first found to be defective or is the nearest available location where necessary repairs can be performed on the line of a connecting railroad if:

(i) The connecting railroad elects to accept the defective car or locomotive for such repair; and

(ii) The nearest available location where necessary repairs can be performed on the line of the connecting railroad is no farther than the nearest available location where necessary repairs can be performed on the line of the railroad where the car or locomotive was found defective.

(8) The movement of the defective car or locomotive for repairs is not by a train required to receive a Class I brake test at that location pursuant to ยง 232.205.

(9) The movement of the defective car or locomotive for repairs is not in a train in which less than 85 percent of the cars have operative and effective brakes.

(10) The defective car or locomotive is tagged, or information is recorded, as prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(11) Except for cars or locomotives with brakes cut out en route, the following additional requirements are met:

(i) A qualified person shall determine-

(A) That it is safe to move the car or locomotive; and

(B) The maximum safe speed and other restrictions necessary for safely conducting the movement.

(ii) The person in charge of the train in which the car or locomotive is to be moved shall be notified in writing and inform all other crew members of the presence of the defective car or locomotive and the maximum speed and other restrictions determined under paragraph (a)(11)(i)(B) of this section. A copy of the tag or card described in paragraph (b) of this section may be used to provide the notification required by this paragraph.

(iii) The defective car or locomotive is moved in compliance with the maximum speed and other restrictions determined under paragraph (a)(11)(i)(B) of this section.

(12) The defective car or locomotive is not subject to a Special Notice for Repair under part 216 of this chapter, unless the movement of the defective car is made in accordance with the restrictions contained in the Special Notice.
