
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 232 - BRAKE SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS FOR FREIGHT AND OTHER NON-PASSENGER TRAINS AND EQUIPMENT; END-OF-TRAIN DEVICES
##### Subpart B - General Requirements
###### ยง 232.109 Dynamic brake requirements.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, a locomotive engineer shall be informed of the operational status of the dynamic brakes on all locomotive units in the consist at the initial terminal for a train and at other locations where a locomotive engineer first begins operation of a train. The information required by this paragraph may be provided to the locomotive engineer by any means determined to be appropriate by the railroad; however, a written or electronic record of the information shall be maintained in the cab of the controlling locomotive.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, all inoperative dynamic brakes shall be repaired within 30 calendar days of becoming inoperative or at the locomotive's next periodic inspection pursuant to ยง 229.23 of this chapter, whichever occurs first.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a locomotive discovered with inoperative dynamic brakes shall have a tag bearing the words "inoperative dynamic brake" securely attached and displayed in a conspicuous location in the cab of the locomotive. This tag shall contain the following information:

(1) The locomotive number;

(2) The name of the discovering carrier;

(3) The location and date where condition was discovered; and

(4) The signature of the person discovering the condition.

(d) An electronic or written record of repairs made to a locomotive's dynamic brakes shall be retained for 92 days.

(e) A railroad may elect to declare the dynamic brakes on a locomotive deactivated without removing the dynamic brake components from the locomotive, only if all of the following conditions are met:

(1) The locomotive is clearly marked with the words "dynamic brake deactivated" in a conspicuous location in the cab of the locomotive; and

(2) The railroad has taken appropriate action to ensure that the deactivated locomotive is incapable of utilizing dynamic brake effort to retard or control train speed.

(f) If a locomotive consist is intended to have its dynamic brakes used while in transit, a locomotive with inoperative or deactivated dynamic brakes or a locomotive not equipped with dynamic brakes shall not be placed in the controlling (lead) position of a consist unless the locomotive has the capability of:

(1) Controlling the dynamic braking effort in trailing locomotives in the consist that are so equipped; and

(2) Displaying to the locomotive engineer the deceleration rate of the train or the total train dynamic brake retarding force.

(g) All locomotives equipped with dynamic brakes and ordered on or after April 1, 2006, or placed in service for the first time on or after October 1, 2007, shall be designed to:

(1) Conduct an electrical integrity test of the dynamic brake to determine if electrical current is being received at the grids on the system; and

(2) Display in real-time in the cab of the controlling (lead) locomotive the total train dynamic brake retarding force available in the train.

(h) All rebuilt locomotives equipped with dynamic brakes and placed in service on or after April 1, 2004, shall be designed to:

(1) Conduct an electrical integrity test of the dynamic brake to determine if electrical current is being received at the grids on the system; and

(2) Display either the train deceleration rate or in real-time in the cab of the controlling (lead) locomotive the total train dynamic brake retarding force available in the train.

(i) The information required by paragraph (a) of this section is not required to be provided to the locomotive engineer if all of the locomotives in the lead consist of a train are equipped in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(j) A railroad operating a train with a brake system that includes dynamic brakes shall adopt and comply with written operating rules governing safe train handling procedures using these dynamic brakes under all operating conditions, which shall be tailored to the specific equipment and territory of the railroad. The railroad's operating rules shall:

(1) Ensure that the friction brakes are sufficient by themselves, without the aid of dynamic brakes, to stop the train safely under all operating conditions.

(2) Include a "miles-per-hour-overspeed-stop" rule. At a minimum, this rule shall require that any train when descending a section of track with an average grade of one percent or greater over a distance of three continuous miles shall be immediately brought to a stop, by an emergency brake application if necessary, when the train's speed exceeds the maximum authorized speed for that train by more than 5 miles per hour. A railroad shall reduce the 5-miles-per-hour-overspeed-stop restriction if validated research indicates the need for such a reduction. A railroad may increase the 5-miles-per-hour-overspeed restriction only with approval of FRA and based upon verifiable data and research.

(k) A railroad operating a train with a brake system that includes dynamic brakes shall adopt and comply with specific knowledge, skill, and ability criteria to ensure that its locomotive engineers are fully trained in the operating rules prescribed by paragraph (j) of this section. The railroad shall incorporate such criteria into its locomotive engineer certification program pursuant to part 240 of this chapter.
