
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 232 - BRAKE SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS FOR FREIGHT AND OTHER NON-PASSENGER TRAINS AND EQUIPMENT; END-OF-TRAIN DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Periodic Maintenance and Testing Requirements
###### ยง 232.303 General requirements.
####### Minor repair

(3)means repairs, other than major repairs, that can be accomplished in a short period of time with limited tools and equipment. Minor repairs would include such things as safety appliance straightening, handhold replacement, air hose replacement, lading adjustment, and coupler knuckle or knuckle pin replacement.

(b) A car on a shop or repair track shall be tested to determine that the air brakes apply and remain applied until a release is initiated.

(c) A car on a shop or repair track shall have its piston travel inspected. For cars equipped with 8-inch or 10-inch diameter brake cylinders, piston travel shall be within 6 to 9 inches. If piston travel is found to be less than 6 inches or more than 9 inches, it must be adjusted to nominally 7inches. For cars not equipped with 8-inch or 10-inch diameter brake cylinders, piston travel shall be within the piston travel stenciled or marked on the car or badge plate.

(d) Before a car is released from a shop or repair track, a qualified person shall ensure:

(1) The brake pipe is securely clamped;

(2) Angle cocks are properly located with suitable clearance and properly positioned to allow maximum air flow;

(3) Valves, reservoirs, and cylinders are tight on supports and the supports are securely attached to the car;

(4) Hand brakes are tested, inspected, and operate as intended; and

(5) Brake indicators, on cars so equipped, are accurate and operate as intended.

(e) If the single car air brake test required by ยง 232.305 cannot be conducted at the point where repairs can be made to the car, the car may be moved after the repairs are made to the next forward location where the test can be performed. Inability to perform a single car air brake test does not constitute an inability to make the necessary repairs.

(1) If it is necessary to move a car from the location where the repairs are performed in order to perform a single car air brake test required by this part, a tag or card shall be placed on both sides of the equipment, or an automated tracking system approved for use by FRA, shall contain the following information about the equipment:

(i) The reporting mark and car number;

(ii) The name of the inspecting railroad;

(iii) The location where repairs were performed and date;

(iv) Indication whether the car requires a single car air brake test;

(v) The location where the appropriate test is to be performed; and

(vi) The name, signature, if possible, and job title of the qualified person approving the move.

(2) The tag or card required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall remain affixed to the equipment until the necessary test has been performed.

(3) An electronic or written record or copy of each tag or card attached to or removed from a car or locomotive shall be retained for 90 days and, upon request, shall be made available within 15 calendar days for inspection by FRA or State inspectors.

(4) The record or copy of each tag or card removed from a car or locomotive shall contain the date, location, and the signature or identification of the qualified person removing it from the piece of equipment.

(f) The location and date of the last single car air brake test required by ยง 232.305 shall be clearly stenciled, marked, or labeled in two-inch high letters or numerals on the side of the equipment. Alternatively, the railroad industry may use an electronic or automated tracking system to track the required information and the performance of the test required by ยง 232.305.

(1) Electronic or automated tracking systems used to meet the requirement contained in this paragraph shall be capable of being reviewed and monitored by FRA at any time to ensure the integrity of the system. FRA's Associate Administrator for Safety may prohibit or revoke the railroad industry's authority to utilize an electronic or automated tracking system in lieu of stenciling or marking if FRA finds that the electronic or automated tracking system is not properly secure, is inaccessible to FRA or railroad employees, or fails to adequately track and monitor the equipment. FRA will record such a determination in writing, include a statement of the basis for such action, and will provide a copy of the document to the affected railroads.

(2) [Reserved]
