
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 232 - BRAKE SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS FOR FREIGHT AND OTHER NON-PASSENGER TRAINS AND EQUIPMENT; END-OF-TRAIN DEVICES
##### Subpart E - End-of-Train Devices
###### ยง 232.405 Design and performance standards for two-way end-of-train devices.

Two-way end-of-train devices shall be designed and perform with the features applicable to one-way end-of-train devices described in ยง 232.403, except those included in ยง 232.403(b)(3). In addition, a two-way end-of-train device shall be designed and perform with the following features:

(a) An emergency brake application command from the front unit of the device shall activate the emergency air valve at the rear of the train within one second.

(b) The rear unit of the device shall send an acknowledgment message to the front unit immediately upon receipt of an emergency brake application command. The front unit shall listen for this acknowledgment and repeat the brake application command if the acknowledgment is not correctly received.

(c) The rear unit, on receipt of a properly coded command, shall open a valve in the brake line and hold it open for a minimum of 15 seconds. This opening of the valve shall cause the brake line to vent to the exterior.

(d) The valve opening shall have a minimum diameter ofinch and the internal diameter of the hose shall beinch to effect an emergency brake application.

(e) The front unit shall have a manually operated switch which, when activated, shall initiate an emergency brake transmission command to the rear unit or the locomotive shall be equipped with a manually operated switch on the engineer control stand designed to perform the equivalent function. The switch shall be labeled "Emergency" and shall be protected so that there will exist no possibility of accidental activation.

(f) All locomotives ordered on or after August 1, 2001, or placed in service for the first time on or after August 1, 2003, shall be designed to automatically activate the two-way end-of-train device to effectuate an emergency brake application whenever it becomes necessary for the locomotive engineer to place the train air brakes in emergency.

(g) The availability of the front-to-rear communications link shall be checked automatically at least every 10 minutes.

(h) Means shall be provided to confirm the availability and proper functioning of the emergency valve.

(i) Means shall be provided to arm the front and rear units to ensure the rear unit responds to an emergency command only from a properly associated front unit.
