
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 232 - BRAKE SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS FOR FREIGHT AND OTHER NON-PASSENGER TRAINS AND EQUIPMENT; END-OF-TRAIN DEVICES
##### Subpart E - End-of-Train Devices
###### ยง 232.407 Operations requiring use of two-way end-of-train devices; prohibition on purchase of nonconforming devices.
####### Specific requirements for use.

(f)If a train is required to use a two-way end-of-train device:

(1) That device shall be armed and operable from the time the train departs from the point where the device is installed until the train reaches its destination. If a loss of communication occurs at the location where the device is installed, the train may depart the location at restricted speed for a distance of no more than one mile in order to establish communication. When communication is established, the quantitative values of the head and rear unit shall be compared pursuant to ยง 232.409(b) and the device tested pursuant to ยง 232.409(c), unless the test was performed prior to installation.

(2) The rear unit batteries must be sufficiently charged at the initial terminal or other point where the device is installed and throughout the train's trip to ensure that the end-of-train device will remain operative until the train reaches its destination. Air-powered generator equipped devices must be tested for a minimum charge at installation before initiating generator operation.

(3) The device shall be activated to effectuate an emergency brake application either by using the manual toggle switch or through automatic activation, whenever it becomes necessary for the locomotive engineer to initiate an emergency application of the air brakes using either the automatic brake valve or the conductor's emergency brake valve.
