
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 232 - BRAKE SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS FOR FREIGHT AND OTHER NON-PASSENGER TRAINS AND EQUIPMENT; END-OF-TRAIN DEVICES
##### Subpart E - End-of-Train Devices
###### ยง 232.407 Operations requiring use of two-way end-of-train devices; prohibition on purchase of nonconforming devices.
####### En route failure of device on a freight or other non-passenger train.,i.e.,

(g)Except on passenger trains required to be equipped with a two-way end-of-train device (which are provided for in paragraph (h) of this section), en route failures of a two-way end-of-train device shall be handled in accordance with this paragraph. If a two-way end-of-train device or equivalent device fails en route (is unable to initiate an emergency brake application from the rear of the train due to certain losses of communication (front to rear) or due to other reasons, the speed of the train on which it is installed shall be limited to 30 mph until the ability of the device to initiate an emergency brake application from the rear of the train is restored. This limitation shall apply to a train using a device that uses an alternative technology to serve the purpose of a two-way end-of-train device. With regard to two-way end-of-train devices, a loss of communication between the front and rear units is an en route failure only if the loss of communication is for a period greater than 16 minutes and 30 seconds. Based on the existing design of the devices, the display to an engineer of a message that there is a communication failure indicates that communication has been lost for 16 minutes and 30 seconds or more.

(1) If a two-way end-of-train device fails en route, the train on which it is installed, in addition to observing the 30-mph speed limitation, shall not operate over a section of track with an average grade of two percent or greater for a distance of two continuous miles, unless one of the following alternative measures is provided:

(i) Use of an occupied helper locomotive at the end of the train. This alternative may be used only if the following requirements are met:

(A) The helper locomotive engineer shall initiate and maintain two-way voice radio communication with the engineer on the head end of the train; this contact shall be verified just prior to passing the crest of the grade.

(B) If there is a loss of communication prior to passing the crest of the grade, the helper locomotive engineer and the head-end engineer shall act immediately to stop the train until voice communication is resumed, in accordance with the railroad's operating rules.

(C) If there is a loss of communication once the descent has begun, the helper locomotive engineer and the head-end engineer shall act to stop the train, in accordance with the railroad's operating rules, if the train has reached a predetermined rate of speed that indicates the need for emergency braking.

(D) The brake pipe of the helper locomotive shall be connected and cut into the train line and tested to ensure operation.

(ii) Use of an occupied caboose at the end of the train with a tested, functioning brake valve capable of initiating an emergency brake application from the caboose. This alternative may be used only if the train service employee in the caboose and the engineer on the head end of the train establish and maintain two-way voice radio communication and respond appropriately to the loss of such communication in the same manner as prescribed for helper locomotives in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section.

(iii) Use of a radio-controlled locomotive at the rear of the train under continuous control of the engineer in the head end by means of telemetry, but only if such radio-controlled locomotive is capable of initiating an emergency application on command from the lead (controlling) locomotive.

(2) If a two-way end-of-train device fails en route while the train on which it is installed is operating over a section of track with an average grade of two percent or greater for a distance of two continuous miles, the train shall be brought safely to a stop at the first available location in accordance with the railroad's operating rule, except the train may continue in operation if the railroad provides one of the alternative measures detailed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
