
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 232 - BRAKE SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS FOR FREIGHT AND OTHER NON-PASSENGER TRAINS AND EQUIPMENT; END-OF-TRAIN DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Introduction of New Brake System Technology
###### ยง 232.505 Pre-revenue service acceptance testing plan.
####### Elements of plan.

(e)The plan shall include all of the following elements:

(1) An identification of each waiver, if any, of FRA or other Federal safety regulations required for the tests or for revenue service operation of the equipment.

(2) A clear statement of the test objectives. One of the principal test objectives shall be to demonstrate that the equipment meets the safety design and performance requirements specified in this part when operated in the environment in which it is to be used.

(3) A planned schedule for conducting the tests.

(4) A description of the railroad property or facilities to be used to conduct the tests.

(5) A detailed description of how the tests are to be conducted. This description shall include:

(i) An identification of the equipment to be tested;

(ii) The method by which the equipment is to be tested;

(iii) The criteria to be used to evaluate the equipment's performance; and

(iv) The means by which the test results are to be reported to FRA.

(6) A description of any special instrumentation to be used during the tests.

(7) A description of the information or data to be obtained.

(8) A description of how the information or data obtained is to be analyzed or used.

(9) A description of any criteria to be used as safety limits during the testing.

(10) A description of the criteria to be used to measure or determine the success or failure of the tests. If acceptance is to be based on extrapolation of less than full level testing results, the analysis to be done to justify the validity of the extrapolation shall be described.

(11) A description of any special safety precautions to be observed during the testing.

(12) A written set of standard operating procedures to be used to ensure that the testing is done safely.

(13) Quality control procedures to ensure that the inspection, testing, and maintenance procedures are followed.

(14) Criteria to be used for the revenue service operation of the equipment.

(15) A description of all testing of the equipment that has previously been performed, if any.
