
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 232 - BRAKE SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS FOR FREIGHT AND OTHER NON-PASSENGER TRAINS AND EQUIPMENT; END-OF-TRAIN DEVICES
##### Subpart G - Electronically Controlled Pneumatic (ECP) Braking Systems
###### ยง 232.603 Design, interoperability, and configuration management requirements.
####### publications@aar.com,,https://aarpublications.com

(1) Association of American Railroads, 425 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20024, telephone: (202) 639-2345, email:website:.

(i) AAR S-4200, "Electronically Controlled Pneumatic (ECP) Cable-Based Brake Systems-Performance Requirements," Revised 2014, (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Brakes and Brake Equipment).

(ii) AAR S-4210, "ECP Cable-Based Brake System Cable, Connectors, and Junction Boxes-Performance Specifications," Revised 2014, (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Brakes and Brake Equipment).

(iii) AAR S-4220, "ECP Cable-Based Brake DC Power Supply-Performance Specification," Version 2.0, Revised 2002, (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Electronically Controlled Brake Systems).

(iv) AAR S-4230, "Intratrain Communication Specification for Cable-Based Freight Train Control System," Version 4.1, Revised 2014, (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Brakes and Brake Equipment).

(v) AAR S-4240, "ECP Brake Equipment-Approval Procedure," Adopted 2007, (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Electronically Controlled Brake Systems).

(vi) AAR S-4250, "Performance Requirements for ITC Controlled Cable-Based Distributed Power Systems," Version 3.0, Revised 2014, (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Brakes and Brake Equipment).

(vii) AAR S-4260, "ECP Brake and Wire Distributed Power Interoperability Test Procedures," Revised 2008 (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Brakes and Brake Equipment).

(viii) AAR S-4270, "ECP Brake System Configuration Management," Adopted 2008, (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Electronically Controlled Brake Systems).

(2) [Reserved]
