
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 232 - BRAKE SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS FOR FREIGHT AND OTHER NON-PASSENGER TRAINS AND EQUIPMENT; END-OF-TRAIN DEVICES
##### Subpart H - Tourist, Scenic, Historic, and Excursion Operations Braking Systems
###### § 232.717 Freight and passenger train car brakes.
####### Testing and repairing brakes on cars while on shop or repair tracks.

(a)

(1) When a freight car having brake equipment due for periodic attention is on shop or repair tracks where facilities are available for making air brake repairs, brake equipment must be given attention in accordance with the requirements of Rules 3 and 4 of the 2020 Field Manual of the AAR Interchange Rules (AAR Field Manual); or an alternative procedure approved by FRA under paragraph (d) of this section. Brake equipment shall then be tested by use of a single car testing device as prescribed by § 232.305.

(2)(i) When a freight car having an air brake defect is on a shop or repair track, brake equipment must be tested by use of a single car testing device as prescribed by § 232.305.

(ii) All freight cars on shop or repair tracks shall be tested to determine that the air brakes apply and release. Piston travel on a standard body mounted brake cylinder which is less than 7 inches or more than 9 inches must be adjusted to nominally 7 inches. Piston travel of brake cylinders on all freight cars equipped with other than standard single capacity brake, must be adjusted as indicated on badge plate or stenciling on car located in a conspicuous place near brake cylinder. After piston travel has been adjusted and with brakes released, sufficient brake shoe clearance must be provided.

(iii) When a car equipped for use in passenger train service not due for periodical air brake repairs, as indicated by stenciled or recorded cleaning dates, is on shop or repair tracks, brake equipment must be tested by use of single car testing device as prescribed by the applicable standards referenced in § 232.305 or by the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) standard referenced in § 238.311(a) of this chapter. Piston travel of brake cylinders must be adjusted if required, to the standard travel for that type of brake cylinder. After piston travel has been adjusted and with brakes released, sufficient brake shoe clearance must be provided.

(iv) Before a car is released from a shop or repair track, it must be known that brake pipe is securely clamped, angle cocks in proper position with suitable clearance, valves, reservoirs and cylinders tight on supports and supports securely attached to car.
