
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 234 - GRADE CROSSING SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Reports and Plans
###### ยง 234.11 State highway-rail grade crossing action plans.
####### Review and approval.

(g)(1) FRA will update its website to reflect receipt of each new, updated, or corrected highway-rail grade crossing action plan submitted pursuant to this section.

(2)(i) Within 60 days of receipt of each new, updated, or corrected highway-rail grade crossing action plan, FRA will conduct a preliminary review of the Action Plan to ascertain whether the elements prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section are adequately addressed in the plan.

(ii) Each new, updated, or corrected State highway-rail grade crossing action plan shall be considered conditionally approved for purposes of this section sixty (60) days after receipt by FRA unless FRA notifies the designated official described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section that the highway-rail grade crossing action plan is incomplete or deficient.

(iii) FRA reserves the right to conduct a more comprehensive review of each new, updated, or corrected State highway-rail grade crossing action plan within 120 days of receipt.

(3) If FRA determines that the new, updated, or corrected highway-rail grade crossing action plan is incomplete or deficient:

(i) FRA will provide email notification to the designated official described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section of the specific areas in which the Action Plan is deficient or incomplete and allow the State or the District of Columbia to complete the plan and correct the deficiencies identified.

(ii) Within 60 days of the date of FRA's email notification identifying the specific areas in which the highway-rail grade crossing action plan is incomplete or deficient, the State or District of Columbia shall correct all deficiencies and submit the corrected State highway-rail grade crossing action plan to FRA for approval. The corrected highway-rail grade crossing action plan shall be submitted electronically through FRA's website in PDF format.

(4)(i) When a new, updated, or corrected State highway-rail grade crossing action plan is fully approved, FRA will provide email notification to the designated official described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(ii) FRA will make each fully-approved State highway-rail grade crossing action plan publicly available for online viewing.

(iii) Each State and the District of Columbia shall implement its fully-approved highway-rail grade crossing action plan.
