
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 234 - GRADE CROSSING SAFETY
##### Subpart F - Highway-Rail and Pathway Crossing Inventory Reporting
###### ยง 234.407 Submission of initial data to the Crossing Inventory for new crossings.
####### Duty of primary operating railroad.

(a)(1)(i) With the exception of highway-rail and pathway crossings that are located in a railroad yard, a passenger station, or within a private company, port, or dock area, each primary operating railroad shall assign an Inventory Number to each new highway-rail and pathway crossing through which it operates.

(ii) A primary operating railroad shall assign one or more Inventory Numbers to new highway-rail and pathway crossings through which it operates, which are located in a railroad yard, passenger station, or within a private company, port, or dock area.

(iii) An Inventory Number shall not be assigned to a temporary crossing, nor shall an Inventory Form be submitted to the Crossing Inventory for a temporary crossing.

(2) With the exception of highway-rail and pathway crossings that are located within a private company, port, or dock area, the primary operating railroad shall provide the assigned Inventory Number to each operating railroad that operates one or more trains through the new highway-rail or pathway crossing no later than four (4) months after the crossing becomes operational or January 6, 2016, whichever occurs later.

(3) Each primary operating railroad shall submit accurate Inventory Forms, or their electronic equivalent, to the Crossing Inventory for new highway-rail and pathway crossings through which it operates, no later than six (6) months after the crossing becomes operational. The Inventory Form, or its electronic equivalent, shall reference the assigned Inventory Number for the crossing(s) and shall be completed and submitted in accordance with ยง 234.403.
