
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 236 - RULES, STANDARDS, AND INSTRUCTIONS GOVERNING THE INSTALLATION, INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR OF SIGNAL AND TRAIN CONTROL SYSTEMS, DEVICES, AND APPLIANCES
##### Subpart A - Rules and Instructions: All Systems
###### Roadway Signals and Cab Signals
####### ยง 236.23 Aspects and indications.

(a) Aspects shall be shown by the position of semaphore blades, color of lights, position of lights, flashing of lights, or any combination thereof. They may be qualified by marker plate, number plate, letter plate, marker light, shape and color of semaphore blades or any combination thereof, subject to the following conditions:

(1) Night aspects of roadway signals, except qualifying appurtenances, shall be shown by lights; day aspects by lights or semaphore arms. A single white light shall not be used.

(2) Reflector lenses or buttons or other devices which depend for visibility upon reflected light from an external source shall not be used hereafter in night aspects, except qualifying appurtenances.

(b) The aspects of cab signals shall be shown by lights or by illuminated letters or numbers.

(c) Each aspect displayed by a signal shall be identified by a name and shall indicate action to be taken. Only one name and indication shall apply to those aspects indicating the same action to be taken; the same aspect shall not be used with any other name and indication.

(d) The fundamental indications of signal aspects shall conform to the following:

(1) A red light, a series of horizontal lights or a semaphore blade in a horizontal position shall be used to indicate stop.

(2) A yellow light, a lunar light, or a series of lights or a semaphore blade in the upper or lower quadrant at an angle of approximately 45 degrees to the vertical, shall be used to indicate that speed is to be restricted and stop may be required.

(3) A green light, a series of vertical lights, or a semaphore blade in a vertical position in the upper quadrant or 60&#xB0; or 90&#xB0; in the lower quadrant shall be used to indicate proceed at authorized speed.

(e) The names, indications, and aspects of roadway and cab signals shall be defined in the carrier's Operating Rule Book or Special Instructions. Modifications shall be filed with the FRA within thirty days after such modifications become effective.

(f) The absence of a qualifying appurtenance, the failure of a lamp in a light signal, or a false restrictive position of an arm of a semaphore signal shall not cause the display of a less restrictive aspect than intended.
