
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 236 - RULES, STANDARDS, AND INSTRUCTIONS GOVERNING THE INSTALLATION, INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR OF SIGNAL AND TRAIN CONTROL SYSTEMS, DEVICES, AND APPLIANCES
##### Subpart A - Rules and Instructions: All Systems
###### Track Circuits
####### ยง 236.51 Track circuit requirements.

Track relay controlling home signals shall be in deenergized position, or device that functions as a track relay controlling home signals shall be in its most restrictive state, and the track circuit of an automatic train stop, train control, or cab signal system shall be deenergized in the rear of the point where any of the following conditions exist:

(a) When a rail is broken or a rail or switch-frog is removed except when a rail is broken or removed in the shunt fouling circuit of a turnout or crossover, provided, however, that shunt fouling circuit may not be used in a turnout through which permissible speed is greater than 45 miles per hour. It shall not be a violation of this requirement if a track circuit is energized:

(1) When a break occurs between the end of rail and track circuit connector; within the limits of rail-joint bond, appliance or other protective device, which provides a bypath for the electric current, or

(2) As result of leakage current or foreign current in the rear of a point where a break occurs.

(b) When a train, locomotive, or car occupies any part of a track circuit, including fouling section of turnout except turnouts of hand-operated main track crossover. It shall not be a violation of this requirement where the presence of sand, rust, dirt, grease, or other foreign matter prevents effective shunting, except that where such conditions are known to exist adequate measures to safeguard train operation must be taken.

(c) Where switch shunting circuit is used:

(1) Switch point is not closed in normal position.

(2) A switch is not locked where facing-point lock with circuit controller is used.

(3) An independently operated fouling-point derail equipped with switch circuit controller is not in derailing position.
