
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 236 - RULES, STANDARDS, AND INSTRUCTIONS GOVERNING THE INSTALLATION, INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR OF SIGNAL AND TRAIN CONTROL SYSTEMS, DEVICES, AND APPLIANCES
##### Subpart E - Automatic Train Stop, Train Control and Cab Signal Systems
###### Inspection and Tests; Locomotive
####### ยง 236.587 Departure test.

(a) The automatic train stop, train control, or cab signal apparatus on each locomotive, except a locomotive or a multiple-unit car equipped with mechanical trip stop, shall be tested using one of the following methods:

(1) Operation over track elements;

(2) Operation over test circuit;

(3) Use of portable test equipment; or

(4) Use of onboard test device.

(b) The test shall be made on departure of the locomotive from its initial terminal unless that apparatus will be cut out between the initial terminal and the equipped territory. If the apparatus is cut out between the initial terminal and the equipped territory the test shall be made prior to entering equipped territory.

(c) If a locomotive makes more than one trip in any 24-hour period, only one departure test is required in such 24-hour period.

(d)(1) Whoever performs the test shall certify in writing that such test was properly performed. The certification and the test results shall be posted in the cab of the locomotive and a copy of the certification and test results left at the test location for filing in the office of the supervisory official having jurisdiction.

(2) If it is impractical to leave a copy of the certification and test results at the location of the test, the test results shall be transmitted to either (i) the dispatcher or (ii) one other designated individual at each location, who shall keep a written record of the test results and the name of the person performing the test. These records shall be retained for at least 92 days.
