
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 26 - PARTICIPATION BY DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES IN DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
#### Appendix D to Part 26 - Mentor-Prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; Program Guidelines

(A) The purpose of this program element is to further the development of DBEs, including but not limited to assisting them to move into non-traditional areas of work and/or compete in the marketplace outside the DBE program, via the provision of training and assistance from other firms. To operate a mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; program, a recipient must obtain the approval of the concerned operating administration.

(B)(1) Any mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; relationship shall be based on a written development plan, approved by the recipient, which clearly sets forth the objectives of the parties and their respective roles, the duration of the arrangement and the services and resources to be provided by the mentor to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9;. The formal mentor-prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement may set a fee schedule to cover the direct and indirect cost for such services rendered by the mentor for specific training and assistance to the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; through the life of the agreement. Services provided by the mentor may be reimbursable under the FTA, FHWA, and FAA programs.

(2) To be eligible for reimbursement, the mentor's services provided and associated costs must be directly attributable and properly allowable to specific individual contracts. The recipient may establish a line item for the mentor to quote the portion of the fee schedule expected to be provided during the life of the contract. The amount claimed shall be verified by the recipient and paid on an incremental basis representing the time the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; is working on the contract. The total individual contract figures accumulated over the life of the agreement shall not exceed the amount stipulated in the original mentor/prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; agreement.
