
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart D - Operating Administrations
##### ยง 1.95 Delegations to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator.

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator is delegated authority to:

(a) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under chapters 301, 303, 321, 323, 325, 327, 329, and 331, of Title 49, U.S.C., except for 49 U.S.C. 32916(b).

(b) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 20134(a) with respect to laws administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration pertaining to highway, traffic and motor vehicle safety.

(c) Carry out, in coordination with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator, the authority vested in the Secretary by subchapter III of chapter 311 of title 49, U.S.C., to promulgate safety standards for commercial motor vehicles and equipment subsequent to initial manufacture when the standards are based upon and similar to a Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard promulgated, either simultaneously or previously, under chapter 301 of title 49, U.S.C.

(d) Carry out the Highway Safety Act of 1966, as amended (Pub. L. 89-564, 80 Stat. 731), for highway safety programs, research, and development except those relating to highway design, construction and maintenance, traffic control devices, identification and surveillance of crash locations, and highway-related aspects of pedestrian safety.

(e) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under chapter 4 of title 23, U.S.C., except for 23 U.S.C. 409.

(f) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary for the following provisions of title 23, U.S.C. (with respect to matters within the primary responsibility of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration): 153, 154, 158, 161, 163, 164, and 313 (Buy America).

(g) Carry out the consultation functions vested in the Secretary by Executive Order 11912, as amended ("Delegation of Authorities Relating to Energy Policy and Conservation") relating to automobiles.

(h) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by section 210(2) of the Clean Air Act, Public Law 90-148, as amended [42 U.S.C. 7544(2)].

(i) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the following sections of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, Public Law 109-59:

(1) Section 1906 [23 U.S.C. 402 note], relating to the grant program to prohibit racial profiling;

(2) Section 2010 [23 U.S.C. 402 note], relating to motorcyclist safety;

(3) Section 2011 [23 U.S.C. 405 note], relating to child safety and child booster seat incentive grants;

(4) Section 10202 [42 U.S.C. 300d-4], relating to emergency medical services, as amended by section 31108 of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act, Public Law 112-141;

(5) Section 10305(b) [49 U.S.C. 30101 note], relating to the publication of non-traffic incident data collection; and

(6) Section 10309(a), relating to the testing of 15-passenger van safety.

(j) Carry out the following functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-140):

(1) Section 106 [49 U.S.C. 32902 note], relating to the continued applicability of existing standards;

(2) Section 107 [49 U.S.C. 32902 note], relating to the National Academy of Sciences studies;

(3) Section 108, relating to the National Academy of Sciences study of medium-duty and heavy-duty truck fuel economy;

(4) Section 110 [49 U.S.C. 32908 note], relating to the periodic review of accuracy of fuel economy labeling;

(5) Section 113 [49 U.S.C. 32904 note], relating to the exemption from separate calculation requirement;

(6) Section 131(b)(2) and (c)(1) [42 U.S.C. 17011(b)(2), (c)(1)], relating to the Plug-in Electric Drive Vehicle Program;

(7) Section 225(a), relating to the study of optimization of flexible fueled vehicles to use E-85 fuel;

(8) Section 227(a), relating to the study of optimization of biogas used in natural gas vehicles;

(9) Section 242 [42 U.S.C. 17051], relating to renewable fuel dispenser requirements; and

(10) Section 248(a) [42 U.S.C. 17054(a)], relating to biofuels distribution and advanced biofuels infrastructure.

(k) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under section 7103 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, Public Law 105-178.

(l) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under sections 3(d), 10, 11 and 13 through 17 [uncodified provisions] of the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (TREAD) Act, Public Law 106-414.

(m) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under Anton's Law, Public Law 107-318.

(n) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under the Cameron Gulbransen Kids Transportation Safety Act of 2007 or the K.T. Safety Act of 2007, Public Law 110-189.

(o) Carry out the functions and exercise the motor vehicle safety authority vested in the Secretary under the Pedestrian Safety Enhancement Act of 2010, Public Law 111-373.

(p) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the following sections of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act, Public Law 112-141:

(1) Sections 31101(d) and (f) (23 U.S.C. 402 note), Authorization of Appropriations;

(2) Sections 31203(b), Civil Penalty Criteria Rule, 31301, Public Availability of Recall Information, 31302, NHTSA Outreach to Manufacturer, Dealer, and Mechanic Personnel, 31309(a), Study of Crash Data Collection, 31401, NHTSA Electronics, Software, and Engineering Expertise, 31402, Electronics Systems Performance, 31501, Child Safety Seats, 31502, Child Restraint Anchorage Systems, 31503, Rear Seat Belt Reminders, 31504, Unattended Passenger Reminders, 31505, New Deadline, and 31601, Rulemaking on Visibility of Agricultural Equipment;

(3) Section 32201, Crashworthiness Standards; and

(4) Sections 32703, Regulations for Improved Occupant Protection, Passenger Evacuation, and Crash Avoidance, 32704, Fire Prevention and Mitigation, 32705, Occupant Protection, Collision Avoidance, Fire Causation, and Fire Extinguisher Research and Testing, and 32706, Concurrence of Research and Rulemaking.

(q) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary to implement section 3(g)-(h) of the Automobile Information Disclosure Act (Pub. L. 85-506, 72 Stat. 325), as amended (15 U.S.C. 1232(g)-(h)).
