
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 238.17 Movement of passenger equipment with other than power brake defects.
####### Limitations on movement of passenger equipment that develops defects en route.

(c)Except as provided in §§ 238.303(e)(15), (e)(17) and (e)(18), 238.305(c), 238.307(c)(1), and 238.503(f), passenger equipment that develops en route to its destination, after its calendar day mechanical inspection is performed and before its next calendar day mechanical inspection is performed, any condition not in compliance with this part, other than a power brake defect, may be moved only if the railroad complies with all of the following requirements or, if applicable, the specified requirements in paragraph (e) of this section:

(1) Prior to movement of equipment with a potential running gear defect, a qualified maintenance person shall determine if it is safe to move the equipment in passenger service and, if so, the maximum speed and other restrictions necessary for safely conducting the movement. If appropriate, these determinations may be made based upon a description of the defective condition provided by a crewmember. If the determinations required by this paragraph are made by an off-site qualified maintenance person based on a description of the defective condition by on-site personnel, then a qualified maintenance person shall perform a physical inspection of the defective equipment, at the first location possible, to verify the description of the defect provided by the on-site personnel.

(2) Prior to movement of equipment with a non-running gear defect, a qualified person or a qualified maintenance person shall determine if it is safe to move the equipment in passenger service and, if so, the maximum speed and other restrictions necessary for safely conducting the movement. If appropriate, these determinations may be made based upon a description of the defective condition provided by the on-site personnel.

(3) Prior to movement of any defective equipment, the qualified person or qualified maintenance person shall notify the crewmember in charge of the movement of the defective equipment, who in turn shall inform all other crewmembers of the presence of the defective condition(s) and the maximum speed and other restrictions determined under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section. The movement shall be made in conformance with such restrictions.

(4) The railroad shall maintain a record of all defects reported and their subsequent repair in the defect tracking system required in § 238.19. In addition, prior to movement of the defective equipment, a tag or card placed on both sides of the defective equipment, or an automated tracking system, shall record the following information about the defective equipment:

(i) The reporting mark and car or locomotive number;

(ii) The name of the inspecting railroad;

(iii) The name of the inspector, inspection location, and date;

(iv) The nature of each defect;

(v) Movement restrictions and safety restrictions, if any;

(vi) The destination of the equipment where it will be repaired; and

(vii) The signature, if possible, as well as the job title and location of the person making the determinations required by this section.
