
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Safety Planning and General Requirements
###### ยง 238.103 Fire safety.
####### Fire safety analysis for existing passenger cars and locomotives.

(d)(1) Not later than January 10, 2001, each passenger railroad shall complete a preliminary fire safety analysis for each category of existing passenger cars and locomotives and rail service.

(2) Not later than July 10, 2001, each such railroad shall-

(i) Complete a final fire safety analysis for any category of existing passenger cars and locomotives and rail service evaluated during the preliminary fire safety analysis as likely presenting an unacceptable risk of personal injury. In conducting the analysis, the railroad shall consider the extent to which materials comply with the test performance criteria for flammability and smoke emission characteristics as specified in Appendix B to this part or alternative standards approved by FRA under this part.

(ii) Take remedial action to reduce the risk of personal injuries to an acceptable level in any such category, if the railroad finds the risk to be unacceptable. In considering remedial action, a railroad is not required to replace material found not to comply with the test performance criteria for flammability and smoke emission characteristics required by this part, if:

(A) The risk of personal injuries from the material is negligible based on the railroad's operating environment and the material's size, or location, or both; or

(B) The railroad takes alternative action which reduces the risk of personal injuries to an acceptable level.

(3) Not later than July 10, 2003, each such railroad shall-

(i) Complete a final fire safety analysis for all categories of existing passenger cars and locomotives and rail service. In completing this analysis, the railroad shall, as far as practicable, determine the extent to which remaining materials comply with the test performance criteria for flammability and smoke emission characteristics as specified in Appendix B to this part or alternative standards approved by FRA under this part.

(ii) Take remedial action to reduce the risk of personal injuries to an acceptable level in any such category, if the railroad finds the risk to be unacceptable. In considering remedial action, a railroad is not required to replace material found not to comply with the test performance criteria for flammability and smoke emission characteristics required by this part, if:

(A) The risk of personal injuries from the material is negligible based on the railroad's operating environment and the material's size, or location, or both; or

(B) The railroad takes alternative action which reduces the risk of personal injuries to an acceptable level.

(4) Where possible prior to transferring existing passenger cars and locomotives to a new category of rail service, but in no case more than 90 days following such a transfer, the passenger railroad shall complete a new fire safety analysis taking into consideration the change in railroad operations and shall effect prompt action to reduce any identified risk to an acceptable level.

(5) As used in this paragraph, a "category of existing passenger cars and locomotives and rail service" shall be determined by the railroad based on relevant fire safety risks, including available ignition sources, presence or absence of heat/smoke detection systems, known variations from the required material test performance criteria or alternative standards approved by FRA, and availability of rapid and safe egress to the exterior of the vehicle under conditions secure from fire, smoke, and other hazards.
