
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Specific Requirements for Tier I Passenger Equipment
###### ยง 238.229 Safety appliances - general.
####### Inspection plans.

(g)The railroad shall adopt and comply with and submit to FRA upon request a written safety appliance inspection plan. At a minimum, the plan shall include the following:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an initial visual inspection (within 1 year of date of publication) and periodic re-inspections (at intervals not to exceed 6 years) of each welded safety appliance bracket or support identified in paragraph (e) of this section. If significant disassembly of a car is necessary to visually inspect the involved safety appliance bracket or support, the initial visual inspection may be conducted at the equipment's first periodic brake equipment maintenance interval pursuant to ยง 238.309 occurring after January 1, 2007.

(2) Identify the personnel that will conduct the initial and periodic inspections and any training those individuals are required to receive in accordance with the criteria contained in paragraph (h) of this section.

(3) Identify the specific procedures and criteria for conducting the initial and periodic safety appliance inspections in accordance with the requirements and criteria contained in paragraph (i) of this section.

(4) Identify when and what type of potential repairs or potential remedial action will be required for any defective welded safety appliance bracket or support discovered during the initial or periodic safety appliance inspection in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.

(5) Identify the records that will be maintained that are related to the initial and periodic safety appliance inspections in accordance with the requirements contained in paragraph (k) of this section.
