
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Specific Requirements for Tier I Passenger Equipment
###### ยง 238.237 Automated monitoring.

(a) Except as further specified in this paragraph, on or after November 8, 1999 a working alerter or deadman control shall be provided in the controlling locomotive of each passenger train operating in other than cab signal, automatic train control, or automatic train stop territory. If the controlling locomotive is ordered on or after September 8, 2000, or placed into service for the first time on or after September 9, 2002, a working alerter shall be provided.

(b) Alerter or deadman control timing shall be set by the operating railroad taking into consideration maximum train speed and capabilities of the signal system. The railroad shall document the basis for setting alerter or deadman control timing and make this documentation available to FRA upon request.

(c) If the train operator does not respond to the alerter or maintain proper contact with the deadman control, it shall initiate a penalty brake application.

(d) The following procedures apply if the alerter or deadman control fails en route and causes the locomotive to be in non-compliance with paragraph (a):

(1)(i) A second person qualified on the signal system and trained to apply the emergency brake shall be stationed in the locomotive cab; or

(ii) The engineer shall be in constant communication with a second crewmember until the train reaches the next terminal.

(2)(i) A tag shall be prominently displayed in the locomotive cab to indicate that the alerter or deadman control is defective, until such device is repaired; and

(ii) When the train reaches its next terminal or the locomotive undergoes its next calendar day inspection, whichever occurs first, the alerter or deadman control shall be repaired or the locomotive shall be removed as the controlling locomotive in the train.
