
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Requirements for Tier I Passenger Equipment
###### ยง 238.313 Class I brake test.
####### Records.

(h)A record shall be maintained of each Class I brake test performed.

(1) This record may be maintained in writing or electronically, provided FRA has access to the record upon request.

(2) The written or electronic record must contain the following information:

(i) The date and time that the Class I brake test was performed;

(ii) The location where the test was performed;

(iii) The identification number of the controlling locomotive of the train;

(iv) The total number of cars inspected during the test; and

(v) The signature or electronic identification of the inspector.

(3) This record shall be maintained at the place where the inspection is conducted or at one central location and shall be retained for at least 92 days.

(i) A long-distance, intercity passenger train that misses a scheduled calendar day Class I brake test due to a delay en route may proceed to the point where the Class I brake test was scheduled to be performed. A Class I brake test shall be completed at that point prior to placing the train back in service.

(j) In addition to complying with all the Class I brake test requirements performed by a qualified maintenance person as contained in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section, railroads operating passenger equipment that is not designed to permit the visual observation of the brake actuation and release without the inspector going on, under, or between the equipment in accordance with ยง 238.231(b) shall perform an additional inspection. At a minimum, the additional inspection requirement for such equipment shall include all of the following:

(1) An additional inspection by a qualified maintenance person of all items and components contained in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(15) of this section;

(2) The additional inspection shall be conducted at an interval not to exceed five (5) in-service days and shall be conducted while the equipment is over an inspection pit or on a raised inspection track; and

(3) A record of the additional inspection shall be maintained pursuant to the requirements contained in paragraph (h) of this section. This record can be combined with the Class I brake test record.
