
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Tier II Passenger Equipment
###### ยง 238.431 Brake system.

(a) A passenger train's brake system shall be capable of stopping the train from its maximum operating speed within the signal spacing existing on the track over which the train is operating under worst-case adhesion conditions.

(b) The brake system shall be designed to allow an inspector to determine that the brake system is functioning properly without having to place himself or herself in a dangerous position on, under, or between the equipment.

(c) Passenger equipment shall be provided with an emergency brake application feature that produces an irretrievable stop, using a brake rate consistent with prevailing adhesion, passenger safety, and brake system thermal capacity. An emergency brake application shall be available at any time, and shall be initiated by an unintentional parting of the train. A means to initiate an emergency brake application shall be provided at two locations in each unit of the train; however, where a unit of the train is 45 feet or less in length a means to initiate an emergency brake application need only be provided at one location in the unit.

(d) The brake system shall be designed to prevent thermal damage to wheels and brake discs. The operating railroad shall demonstrate through analysis and testing that no thermal damage results to the wheels or brake discs under conditions resulting in maximum braking effort being exerted on the wheels or discs.

(e) The following requirements apply to blended braking systems:

(1) Loss of power or failure of the dynamic brake does not result in exceeding the allowable stopping distance;

(2) The friction brake alone is adequate to safely stop the train under all operating conditions;

(3) The operational status of the electric portion of the brake system shall be displayed for the train operator in the control cab; and

(4) The operating railroad shall demonstrate through analysis and testing the maximum operating speed for safe operation of the train using only the friction brake portion of the blended brake with no thermal damage to wheels or discs.

(f) The brake system design shall allow a disabled train's pneumatic brakes to be controlled by a conventional locomotive, during a rescue operation, through brake pipe control alone.

(g) An independent failure-detection system shall compare brake commands with brake system output to determine if a failure has occurred. The failure detection system shall report brake system failures to the automated train monitoring system.

(h) Passenger equipment shall be equipped with an adhesion control system designed to automatically adjust the braking force on each wheel to prevent sliding during braking. In the event of a failure of this system to prevent wheel slide within preset parameters, a wheel slide alarm that is visual or audible, or both, shall alert the train operator in the cab of the controlling power car to wheel-slide conditions on any axle of the train.
