
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Tier II Passenger Equipment
###### ยง 238.429 Safety appliances.
####### Handrails and handholds.

(d)Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section:

(1) Handrails shall be provided for passengers on both sides of all steps used to board or depart the train.

(2) Exits on a power vehicle shall be equipped with handrails and handholds so that crewmembers can get on and off the vehicle safely.

(3) Throughout their entire length, handrails and handholds shall be a color that contrasts with the color of the vehicle body to which they are fastened.

(4) The maximum distance above the top of the rail to the bottom of vertical handrails and handholds shall be 51 inches, and the minimum distance shall be 21 inches.

(5) Vertical handrails and handholds shall be installed to continue to a point at least equal to the height of the top edge of the control cab door.

(6) The minimum hand clearance distance between a vertical handrail or handhold and the vehicle body shall be 2inches for the entire length.

(7) All vertical handrails and handholds shall be securely fastened to the vehicle body.

(8) If the length of the handrail exceeds 60 inches, it shall be securely fastened to the power vehicle body with two fasteners at each end.
