
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Tier II Passenger Equipment
###### ยง 238.443 Headlights.

(a) Each power car shall be equipped with at least two headlights. Each headlight shall produce no less than 200,000 candela. One headlight shall be arranged to illuminate a person standing between the rails 800 feet ahead of the power car under clear weather conditions. The other headlight shall be arranged to illuminate a person standing between the rails 1,500 feet ahead of the power car under clear weather conditions.

(b) A power car with a headlight not in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be moved in accordance with the following:

(1) If one of the headlights is defective, the defect shall be considered a non-running gear defect subject to the provisions contained in ยง 238.17 of this part.

(2) If both headlights are defective, the power car shall be inspected and tagged in accordance with the requirements contained in ยง 238.17(c) relating to non-running gear defects. The power car may continue to be used in passenger service only to the nearest forward location where the repairs necessary to bring the power car into compliance can be made or to the power car's next calendar day mechanical inspection, whichever occurs first.
