
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Appendix B to Part 238 - Test Methods and Performance Criteria for the Flammability and Smoke Emission Characteristics of Materials Used in Passenger Cars and Locomotive Cabs
###### Incorporation by reference.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)Certain documents are incorporated by reference into this appendix with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may inspect a copy of each document during normal business hours at the Federal Railroad Administration, Docket Clerk, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20950 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The documents incorporated by reference into this appendix and the sources from which you may obtain these documents are listed below:

(1) American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Dr., West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.

(i) ASTM C 1166-00, Standard Test Method for Flame Propagation of Dense and Cellular Elastomeric Gaskets and Accessories.

(ii) ASTM D 2724-87, Standard Test Methods for Bonded, Fused, and Laminated Apparel Fabrics.

(iii) ASTM D 3574-95, Standard Test Methods for Flexible Cellular Materials-Slab, Bonded, and Molded Urethane Foams.

(iv) ASTM D 3675-98, Standard Test Method for Surface Flammability of Flexible Cellular Materials Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source.

(v) ASTM E 119-00a, Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials.

(vi) ASTM E 162-98, Standard Test Method for Surface Flammability of Materials Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source.

(vii) ASTM E 648-00, Standard Test Method for Critical Radiant Flux of Floor-Covering Systems Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source.

(viii) ASTM E 662-01, Standard Test Method for Specific Optical Density of Smoke Generated by Solid Materials.

(ix) ASTM E 1354-99, Standard Test Method for Heat and Visible Smoke Release Rates for Materials and Products Using an Oxygen Consumption Calorimeter.

(x) ASTM E 1537-99, Standard Test Method for Fire Testing of Upholstered Furniture.

(xi) ASTM E 1590-01, Standard Test Method for Fire Testing of Mattresses.

(2) General Services Administration, Federal Supply Service, Specification Section, 470 E. L'Enfant Plaza, SW., Suite 8100, Washington, DC, 20407. FED-STD-191A-Textile Test Method 5830, Leaching Resistance of Cloth; Standard Method (July 20, 1978).

(3) State of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, Bureau of Home Furnishings and Thermal Insulation, 3485 Orange Grove Avenue, North Highlands, CA 95660-5595.

(i) California Technical Bulletin (Cal TB) 129, Flammability Test Procedure for Mattresses for Use in Public Buildings (October, 1992).

(ii) Cal TB 133, Flammability Test Procedure for Seating Furniture for Use in Public Occupancies (January, 1991).
