
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 238 - PASSENGER EQUIPMENT SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Appendix B to Part 238 - Test Methods and Performance Criteria for the Flammability and Smoke Emission Characteristics of Materials Used in Passenger Cars and Locomotive Cabs
###### Required test methods and performance criteria.

(c)The materials used in locomotive cabs and passenger cars shall be tested according to the methods and meet the performance criteria set forth in the following table and notes:

Materials tested for surface flammability shall not exhibit any flaming running or dripping.

The ASTM E 662-01 maximum test limits for smoke emission (specific optical density) shall be measured in either the flaming or non-flaming mode, utilizing the mode which generates the most smoke.

Testing of a complete seat assembly (including cushions, fabric layers, upholstery) according to ASTM E 1537-99 using the pass/fail criteria of Cal TB 133, and testing of a complete mattress assembly (including foam and ticking) according to ASTM E 1590-01 using the pass/fail criteria of Cal TB 129 shall be permitted in lieu of the test methods prescribed herein, provided the assembly component units remain unchanged or new (replacement) assembly components possess equivalent fire performance properties to the original components tested. A fire hazard analysis must also be conducted that considers the operating environment within which the seat or mattress assembly will be used in relation to the risk of vandalism, puncture, cutting, or other acts which may expose the individual components of the assemblies to an ignition source. Notes 5, 6, 7, and 8 apply.

Testing is performed without upholstery.

The surface flammability and smoke emission characteristics shall be demonstrated to be permanent after dynamic testing according to ASTM D 3574-95, Test I(Dynamic Fatigue Test by the Roller Shear at Constant Force) or Test I(Dynamic Fatigue Test by Constant Force Pounding) both using Procedure B, except that the test samples shall be a minimum of 6 inches (154 mm) by 18 inches (457 mm) by the thickness of the material in its end use configuration, or multiples thereof. If Test Iis used, the size of the indentor described in paragraph 96.2 shall be modified to accommodate the specified test specimen.

The surface flammability and smoke emission characteristics shall be demonstrated to be permanent by washing, if appropriate, according to FED-STD-191A Textile Test Method 5830.

The surface flammability and smoke emission characteristics shall be demonstrated to be permanent by dry-cleaning, if appropriate, according to ASTM D 2724-87.

Materials that cannot be washed or dry-cleaned shall be so labeled and shall meet the applicable performance criteria after being cleaned as recommended by the manufacturer.

Signage is not required to meet any flammability or smoke emission performance criteria specified in this Appendix.

Materials used to fabricate miscellaneous, discontinuous small parts (such as knobs, rollers, fasteners, clips, grommets, and small electrical parts) that will not contribute materially to fire growth in end use configuration are exempt from flammability and smoke emission performance requirements, provided that the surface area of any individual small part is less than 16 square inches (100 cm) in end use configuration and an appropriate fire hazard analysis is conducted which addresses the location and quantity of the materials used, and the vulnerability of the materials to ignition and contribution to flame spread.

If the surface area of any individual small part is less than 16 square inches (100 cm) in end use configuration, materials used to fabricate such a part may be tested in accordance with ASTM E 1354-99 as an alternative to both (a) the ASTM E 162-98 flammability test procedure, or the appropriate flammability test procedure otherwise specified in the table, and (b) the ASTM E 662-01 smoke generation test procedure. Testing shall be at 50 kW/mapplied heat flux with a retainer frame. Materials tested in accordance with ASTM E 1354-99 shall meet the following performance criteria: average heat release rate (q) less than or equal to 100 kW/m, and average specific extinction area (&#x3C3;) less than or equal to 500 m/kg over the same 180-second period.

Carpeting used as a wall or ceiling covering shall be tested according to ASTM E 162-98 and ASTM E 662-01 and meet the respective criteria of Iless than or equal to 35 and D(1.5) less than or equal to 100 and D(4.0) less than or equal to 200. Notes 1 and 2 apply.

Floor covering shall be tested with padding in accordance with ASTM E 648-00, if the padding is used in the actual installation.

For double window glazing, only the interior glazing is required to meet the requirements specified herein. (The exterior glazing is not required to meet these requirements.)

Penetrations (ducts, etc.) shall be designed against acting as passageways for fire and smoke and representative penetrations shall be included as part of test assemblies.
