
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 240 - QUALIFICATION AND CERTIFICATION OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEERS
##### Subpart B - Component Elements of the Certification Process
###### § 240.117 Criteria for consideration of operating rules compliance data.

(a) Each railroad shall adopt and comply with a program which meets the requirements of this section. When any person including, but not limited to, each railroad, railroad officer, supervisor, and employee violates any requirement of a program that complies with the requirements of this section, that person shall be considered to have violated the requirements of this section.

(b) A person who has demonstrated a failure to comply, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, with railroad rules and practices for the safe operation of trains shall not be currently certified as a locomotive engineer.

(c)(1) A certified locomotive engineer who has demonstrated a failure to comply with railroad rules and practices described in paragraph (e) of this section shall have his or her certification revoked.

(2) A Designated Supervisor of Locomotive Engineers, a certified locomotive engineer pilot or an instructor engineer who is monitoring, piloting or instructing a locomotive engineer and fails to take appropriate action to prevent a violation of paragraph (e) of this section, shall have his or her certification revoked. Appropriate action does not mean that a supervisor, pilot or instructor must prevent a violation from occurring at all costs; the duty may be met by warning an engineer of a potential or foreseeable violation. A Designated Supervisor of Locomotive Engineers will not be held culpable under this section when this monitoring event is conducted as part of the railroad's operational compliance tests as defined in §§ 217.9 and 240.303 of this chapter.

(3) A certified locomotive engineer who is called by a railroad to perform the duty of a train crew member other than that of locomotive engineer or conductor shall not have his or her certification revoked based on actions taken or not taken while performing that duty.

(d) In determining whether a person may be or remain certified as a locomotive engineer, a railroad shall consider as operating rule compliance data only conduct described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section that occurred within a period of 36 consecutive months prior to the determination. A review of an existing certification shall be initiated promptly upon the occurrence and documentation of any conduct described in this section.

(e) A railroad shall only consider violations of its operating rules and practices that involve:

(1) Failure to control a locomotive or train in accordance with a signal indication, excluding a hand or a radio signal indication or a switch, that requires a complete stop before passing it;
