
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 241 - UNITED STATES LOCATIONAL REQUIREMENT FOR DISPATCHING OF UNITED STATES RAIL OPERATIONS
##### ยง 241.7 Waivers.
###### General.

(a)(1) A person subject to a requirement of this part may petition the Administrator for a waiver of compliance with such requirement. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the filing of such a petition does not affect that person's responsibility for compliance with that requirement while the petition is being considered.

(2) (i) Each petition for waiver under this section shall be filed in the manner and contain the information required by part 211 of this chapter.

(ii) Petitions seeking approval to conduct fringe border operations shall also comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(iii) Petitioners not filing under paragraph (c) of this section should review the guidelines at 66 FR 63942 (Dec. 11, 2001), and frame their petitions to address the safety and security concerns articulated in the preamble, or contact the Office of the Chief Counsel, RCC-12, FRA, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Stop 10, Washington, DC 20590, for a copy of the guidelines.

(3) If the Administrator finds that a waiver of compliance is in the public interest and is consistent with railroad safety, the Administrator may grant the waiver subject to any conditions that the Administrator deems necessary.
