
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 244 - REGULATIONS ON SAFETY INTEGRATION PLANS GOVERNING RAILROAD CONSOLIDATIONS, MERGERS, AND ACQUISITIONS OF CONTROL
##### Subpart B - Safety Integration Plans
###### ยง 244.17 Procedures.

(a) Each applicant shall file one original of a proposed Safety Integration Plan with the Associate Administrator for Safety, FRA, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Mail Stop 25, Washington, DC, 20590, no later than 60 days after the date it files its application with the Surface Transportation Board.

(b) The applicant shall submit such additional information necessary to support its proposed Safety Integration Plan as FRA may require to satisfy the requirements of this part.

(c) The applicant shall coordinate with FRA to resolve FRA's comments on the proposed Safety Integration Plan until such plan is approved.

(d) FRA will file its findings and conclusions on the proposed Safety Integration Plan with the Board's Section of Environmental Analysis at a date sufficiently in advance of the Board's issuance of its draft environmental documentation in the case to permit incorporation in the draft environmental document.

(e) Assuming FRA approves the proposed Safety Integration Plan and the Surface Transportation Board approves the transaction and adopts the Plan, each applicant involved in the transaction shall coordinate with FRA in implementing the approved Safety Integration Plan.

(f) During implementation of an approved Safety Integration Plan, FRA expects that an applicant may change and refine its Safety Integration Plan in response to unforeseen developments. An applicant shall communicate with FRA about such developments and submit amendments to its Safety Integration Plan to FRA for approval.

(g) During implementation of an approved Safety Integration Plan, FRA will inform the Surface Transportation Board about implementation of the plan at times and in a manner designed to aid the Board's exercise of its continuing jurisdiction over the approved transaction in accordance with an agreement that FRA and the Board will enter into and execute. Pursuant to such agreement, FRA will consult with the Board at all appropriate stages of implementation, and will advise the Board on the status of the implementation process:

(1) For a period of no more than five years after the Board approves the transaction,

(2) For an oversight period for the transaction established by the Board, or

(3) Until FRA advises the Board in writing that the integration of operations subject to the transaction is complete, whichever is shorter.
