
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 250 - GUARANTEE OF CERTIFICATES OF TRUSTEES OF RAILROADS IN REORGANIZATION
##### ยง 250.4 Execution and filing of application.

The following procedure shall govern the execution and filing of the application:

(a) The original application shall bear the date of execution and be signed with ink by or on behalf of the trustee and the lender. Execution on behalf of the trustee shall be by the trustee or trustees having knowledge of the matters therein set forth. Persons signing the application on behalf of the trustee and lender, respectively, shall also sign a certificate in form as follows:

(b) There shall be made a part of the original application the following certificate by the Chief Accounting Officer of the carrier:

(c) The original application and supporting papers, and six copies thereof for the use of the Administrator shall be filed with the Administrator, Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC. Simultaneously, one copy of the application and supporting papers shall be filed with the Secretary of the Interstate Commerce Commission, Washington, DC. Each copy shall bear the dates and signatures that appear in the original and shall be complete in itself, but the signatures in the copies may be stamped or typed. If unusual difficulties arise in the furnishing of any of the exhibits required in ยง 250.2, the carrier applicant or the lender, upon appropriate showing and with the consent of the Administrator, may file a lesser number.

(d) In the event the furnishing of exhibits in the detail required by ยง 250.2 is shown by the applicant or applicants to be unduly burdensome in relation to the nature and amount of the loan, the Administrator may modify the requirements of said section. In addition, the Administrator may waive or modify any requirement of this part upon good cause shown, or make any additional requirements he deems necessary.
