
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 260 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING LOANS AND LOAN GUARANTEES UNDER THE RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT FINANCING PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Overview
###### ยง 260.15 Credit risk premium.

(a) Where available Federal appropriations are inadequate to cover the subsidy cost, a non-Federal infrastructure partner may pay to the Administrator a Credit Risk Premium adequate to cover that portion of the subsidy cost not covered by Federal appropriations. Where there is no Federal appropriation, the Credit Risk Premium must cover the entire subsidy cost.

(b) The amount of the Credit Risk Premium required for each direct loan or loan guarantee, if any, shall be established by the Administrator. The Credit Risk Premium shall be determined based on the credit risk and anticipated recovery in the event of default, including the recovery of collateral.

(c) The Credit Risk Premium must be paid before the disbursement of a direct or guaranteed loan. Where the borrower draws down the direct or guaranteed loan in several increments, the borrower may pay a portion of the total Credit Risk Premium for each increment equal to the proportion of that increment to the total amount of the direct or guaranteed loan.

(d) Each direct loan and loan guarantee made by the Administrator will be included in one cohort of direct loans or one cohort of loan guarantees, respectively, made during that same fiscal year, or longer period, as may be determined by the Administrator. When all obligations in a cohort have been satisfied or liquidated, the amount of Credit Risk Premiums, paid by applicants or infrastructure partners, remaining in the cohort, after deductions made to mitigate losses from any loan or loan guarantee in the cohort, together with interest accrued thereon, will be repaid on a pro rata basis to each original payor of a Credit Risk Premium for any obligation which was fully satisfied. If the Administrator's estimate of the default risk cost of each loan is accurate, the aggregate of Credit Risk Premiums associated with each cohort of loans will fully offset all losses in the cohort and none will remain to be returned to the payees.
