
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 260 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING LOANS AND LOAN GUARANTEES UNDER THE RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT FINANCING PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Procedures To Be Followed in the Event of Default
###### ยง 260.45 Events of default for guaranteed loans.

(a) If the Borrower is more than 30 days past due on a payment or is in violation of any covenant or condition of the loan documents and such violation constitutes a default under the provisions of the loan documents, Lender must notify the Administrator in writing and must continue to submit this information to the Administrator each month until such time as the loan is no longer in default; and the Administrator will pay the Lender of the obligation, or the Lenders's agent, an amount equal to the past due interest on the guaranteed portion of the defaulted loan. This payment will in no way reduce the Borrower's obligation to the Lender to make all payments of principal and interest in accordance with the note. If the loan is brought current, the Lender will repay to the Agency any interest payments made by the Agency, plus accrued interest at the note rate.

(b) If the default has continued for more than 90 days, the Administrator will pay to the Lender, or the Lender's agent, 90 percent of the unpaid guaranteed principal. If, subsequent to this payment being made, the default is cured and liquidation is no longer appropriate, the Lender will repay such funds to the Administrator, plus interest at the note rate.

(c) After the default has continued for more than 90 days, the Lender shall expeditiously submit to the Administrator, in writing, its proposed detailed plan to resolve the default by liquidating the collateral or by any other means. If the resolution will require the liquidation of the collateral, then the Lender's plan shall include:

(1) Proof adequate to establish that the Lender is legally in possession of the obligation, or is the agent for a Holder who is legally in possession of the obligation, and a statement of the current loan balance and accrued interest to date and the method of computing the interest;

(2) A full and complete list of all collateral, including any personal and corporate guarantees;

(3) The recommended liquidation methods for making the maximum collection possible and the justification for such methods, including recommended action for acquiring and disposing of all collateral and collecting from any guarantors;

(4) Necessary steps for preservation of the collateral;

(5) Copies of the Borrower's latest available financial statements;

(6) Copies of any guarantor's latest available financial statements;

(7) An itemized list of estimated liquidation expenses expected to be incurred along with justification for each expense;

(8) A schedule to periodically report to the FRA on the progress of liquidation;

(9) Proposed protective bid amounts on collateral to be sold at auction and a breakdown to show how the amounts were determined;

(10) If a voluntary conveyance is considered, the proposed amount to be credited to the guaranteed debt;

(11) Legal opinions, as appropriate;

(12) The Lender will obtain an independent appraisal on all collateral securing the loan which will reflect the fair market value and potential liquidation value. In order to formulate a liquidation plan that maximizes recovery, the appraisal shall consider the presence of hazardous substances, petroleum products, or other environmental hazards, which may adversely impact the market value of the collateral; and

(13) The anticipated expenses associated with the liquidation will be considered a cost of liquidation.

(d) The Administrator will inform the Lender in writing whether the Administrator concurs in the Lender's liquidation plan. Should the Administrator and the Lender not agree on the liquidation plan, negotiations will take place between the Administrator and the Lender to resolve the disagreement. When the liquidation plan is approved by the Administrator, the Lender will proceed expeditiously with liquidation. The liquidation plan may be modified when conditions warrant. All modifications must be approved in writing by the Administrator prior to implementation.

(e) Lender will account for funds during the period of liquidation and will provide the Administrator with reports at least quarterly on the progress of liquidation including disposition of collateral, resulting costs, and additional procedures necessary for successful completion of the liquidation.

(f) Within 30 days after final liquidation of all collateral, the Lender will prepare and submit to the Administrator a final report in which the Lender must account for all funds during the period of liquidation, disposition of the collateral, all costs incurred, and any other information necessary for the successful completion of liquidation. Upon receipt of the final accounting and report of loss, the Administrator may audit all applicable documentation to confirm the final loss. The Lender will make its records available and otherwise assist the Administrator in making any investigation.

(g) The Administrator shall be subrogated to all the rights of the Lender, or if Lender is agent for a Holder then to all of the rights of the Holder, with respect to the Borrower to the extent of the Administrator's payment to the Lender under this section.

(h) When the Administrator finds the final report to be proper in all respects:

(1) All amounts recovered in liquidation shall be paid to the Administrator; and

(2) The remaining obligation of the Administrator to the Lender under the guarantee, if any, will be paid directly to Lender by the Administrator.

(i) The Administrator shall not be required to make any payment under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if the Administrator finds, before the expiration of the periods described in such subsections, that the default has been remedied.
