
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 260 - REGULATIONS GOVERNING LOANS AND LOAN GUARANTEES UNDER THE RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT FINANCING PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Loan Guarantees - Lenders
###### ยง 260.55 Lender's loan servicing.

(a) The lender is responsible for servicing the entire loan and for taking all servicing actions that are prudent. This responsibility includes but is not limited to the collection of payments, obtaining compliance with the covenants and provisions in the loan documents, obtaining and analyzing financial statements, verification of tax payments, and insurance premiums, and maintaining liens on collateral.

(b) The lender must report the outstanding principal and interest balance on each guaranteed loan semiannually.

(c) At the Administrator's request, the Lender will periodically meet with the Administrator to ascertain how the guaranteed loan is being serviced and that the conditions and covenants of the loan documents are being enforced.

(d) The Lender must obtain and forward to the Administrator the Borrower's annual financial statements within 120 days after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year and the due date of other reports as required by the loan documents. The Lender must analyze the financial statements and provide the Agency with a written summary of the Lender's analysis and conclusions, including trends, strengths, weaknesses, extraordinary transactions, and other indications of the financial condition of the Borrower.

(e) Neither the Lender nor the Holder shall alter, nor approve any amendments of, any loan instrument without the prior written approval of the Administrator.
