
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 262 - IMPLEMENTATION OF PROGRAM FOR CAPITAL GRANTS FOR RAIL LINE RELOCATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
##### ยง 262.19 Close-out procedures.

(a) Thirty days before the end of the grant period, FRA will notify the State that the period of performance for the grant is about to expire and that close-out procedures will be initiated.

(b) Within 90 days after the expiration or termination of the grant, the State must submit to FRA any or all of the following information, depending on the terms of the grant:

(1) Final performance or progress report;

(2) Financial Status Report (SF-269) or Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs (SF-271);

(3) Final Request for Payment (SF-270);

(4) Patent disclosure (if applicable);

(5) Federally-owned Property Report (if applicable)

(c) If the project is completed, within 90 days after the expiration or termination of the grant, the State shall complete a full inspection of all construction work completed under the grant and submit a report to FRA. If the project is not completed, the State shall submit a report detailing why the project was not completed.

(d) FRA will review all close-out information submitted, and adjust payments as necessary. If FRA determines that the State is owed additional funds, FRA will promptly make payment to the State for any unreimbursed allowable costs. If the State has received more funds than the total allowable costs, the State must immediately refund to the FRA any balance of unencumbered cash advanced that is not authorized to be retained for use on other grants.

(e) FRA will notify the State in writing that the grant has been closed out.
