
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 268 - MAGNETIC LEVITATION TRANSPORTATION TECHNOLOGY DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Procedures For Financial Assistance
###### ยง 268.11 Project eligibility standards.
####### Planning/environmental process,Assessment of environmental consequences of the proposed project.

(6)-(i)Recipients of preconstruction planning grants shall conduct an EA in support of the project description; and will prepare additional environmental studies for the project. The EA shall include information to support the grantee's decision to pursue the proposed project. The grantee shall develop the information and discuss the environmental consequences of the proposed technology and route in sufficient detail for the preparation of appropriate documentation by FRA to support selection of one project. This shall include: the identification of potential positive and negative environmental effects resulting from the technology (e.g. energy consumption compared to other transportation options); generic noise emissions at various distances from the centerline of the guideway; changes in electromagnetic field levels at various distances from the centerline of the guideway; and environmental screening of the proposed route (e.g., identification of land use; identification of endangered species possibly present and location of their critical habitat; identification of navigable waterways, wetlands and other sensitive water resources; and identification of the location of parks, wildlife refuges, historic and archaeological sites of National, State or local significance and other sites protected by section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act). The latter information and analysis shall be submitted four months in advance of the remainder of the project description. The above list is illustrative only. Grantees will be expected to review proposed work statements with FRA at pre-application meetings or through some other means to develop the final scope of this environmental review.

(ii) The project description must also include letters of endorsement of project implementation from all the State departments of transportation involved, and from all Metropolitan Planning Organizations for metropolitan areas that would be served by the project.
