
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 268 - MAGNETIC LEVITATION TRANSPORTATION TECHNOLOGY DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Procedures For Financial Assistance
###### § 268.21 Down-selection of one or more Maglev projects for further study and selection of one project for final design, engineering, and construction funding.

(a) Upon completion of Phase III of the Maglev Deployment Program, FRA will down-select one or more projects to complete additional environmental studies, investment grade revenue forecasts, and other studies and analyses necessary prior to initiation of construction. Final design and engineering work will also be initiated for the down-selected project(s). To be down-selected a project must appear to meet the project eligibility standards contained in § 268.11 (b), rate highly in the project selection criteria specified in § 268.17, be judged by FRA to have a good chance of being constructed with the Federal funds authorized for this program, and be successfully operated by a public/private partnership.

(b) Only one project will be selected in Phase IV of the Maglev Deployment Program and be eligible for any Federal construction funds that Congress chooses to make available. That one project must meet each and every project eligibility standard contained in § 268.11 (b). If more than one project down-selected in Phase III and funded through Phase IV meets all of these standards, then FRA will evaluate and compare the eligible projects according to the set of project selection criteria contained in § 268.17.

(c) In reviewing competing projects under the project eligibility standards and project selection criteria, the FRA will exercise particular vigilance regarding the following elements of the preconstruction planning process, although not to the exclusion of others:

(1) The credibility of the demand and revenue forecasts, cost estimates, and benefit/cost comparisons; and

(2) The credibility of the financial plan.

(d) FRA intends to make periodic reviews of the processes and products of grant recipients. Such reviews may include, at the FRA's option, reviews at key milestones in the preparation of project descriptions.
