
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 270 - SYSTEM SAFETY PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - System Safety Program Requirements
###### ยง 270.105 Discovery and admission as evidence of certain information.
####### Protected information.

(a)Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, any information compiled or collected after August 14, 2017, solely for the purpose of planning, implementing, or evaluating a system safety program under this part shall not be subject to discovery, admitted into evidence, or considered for other purposes in a Federal or State court proceeding for damages involving personal injury, wrongful death, or property damage. For purposes of this section:

(1) "Information" includes plans, reports, documents, surveys, schedules, lists, or data, and specifically includes a passenger rail operation's analysis of its safety risks under ยง 270.103(q)(1) and a passenger rail operation's statement of mitigation measures under ยง 270.103(q)(2);

(2) "Solely" means that a passenger rail operation originally compiled or collected the information for the exclusive purpose of planning, implementing, or evaluating a system safety program under this part. Information compiled or collected for any other purpose is not protected, even if the passenger rail operation also uses that information for a system safety program. "Solely" also means that a passenger rail operation continues to use that information only for its system safety program. If a passenger rail operation subsequently uses for any other purpose information that was initially compiled or collected for a system safety program, this section does not protect that information to the extent that it is used for the non-system safety program purpose. The use of that information within the passenger rail operation's system safety program, however, remains protected. This section does not protect information that is required to be compiled or collected pursuant to any other provision of law of regulation; and

(3) A passenger rail operation may include a Confidential Close Call Reporting System (CRS) program in a system safety program established under this part. For Federal or State court proceedings described by this paragraph (a) that are initiated after March 4, 2021, the information protected by this paragraph (a) includes CRS information a passenger rail operation includes in its system safety program, even if the passenger rail operation compiled or collected the CRS information on or before August 14, 2017, for purposes other than planning, implementing, or evaluating a system safety program under this part.
