
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 271 - RISK REDUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 271.11 Discovery and admission as evidence of certain information.
####### Protected information.

(a)Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, any information compiled or collected after February 17, 2021 solely for the purpose of planning, implementing, or evaluating a risk reduction program under this part shall not be subject to discovery, admitted into evidence, or considered for other purposes in a Federal or State court proceeding for damages involving personal injury, wrongful death, or property damage. For purposes of this section:

(1) "Information" includes plans, reports, documents, surveys, schedules, lists, or data, and specifically includes a railroad's analysis of its safety risks under ยง 271.103(b) and a railroad's statement of mitigation measures under ยง 271.103(c);

(2) "Solely" means that a railroad originally compiled or collected the information for the exclusive purpose of planning, implementing, or evaluating a risk reduction program under this part. Information compiled or collected for any other purpose is not protected, even if the railroad also uses that information for a risk reduction program. "Solely" also means a railroad continues to use that information only for its risk reduction program. If a railroad subsequently uses for any other purpose information that was initially compiled or collected for a risk reduction program, this section does not protect that information to the extent that it is used for the non-risk reduction program purpose. The use of that information within the railroad's risk reduction program, however, remains protected. This section does not protect information that is required to be compiled or collected pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation; and

(3) A railroad may include a Confidential Close Call Reporting System (CRS) program in a risk reduction program established under this part. For Federal or State court proceedings described by this paragraph (a) that are initiated after March 4, 2021, the information protected by this paragraph (a) includes CRS information a railroad includes in its risk reduction program, even if the railroad compiled or collected the CRS information on or before February 17, 2021, for purposes other than planning, implementing, or evaluating a risk reduction program under this part.
