
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 271 - RISK REDUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Review, Approval, and Retention of Risk Reduction Program Plans
###### ยง 271.301 Filing and approval.
####### Filing timeline.

(b)(1) A Class I railroad shall submit its RRP plan no later than August 16, 2021.

(2) A railroad with inadequate safety performance shall submit its RRP plan no later than 180 days after receiving final written notification from FRA that it shall comply with this part, pursuant to ยง 271.13(d), or no later than August 16, 2021, whichever is later.

(3) A railroad that the STB reclassifies or newly classifies as a Class I railroad shall submit its RRP plan no later than 90 days following the effective date of the classification or reclassification or no later than August 16, 2021, whichever is later.

(4)(i) Before submitting an RRP plan for FRA's review and approval, a voluntarily-compliant railroad shall notify FRA of its intent to submit an RRP plan by providing written notice to the FRA Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety and Chief Safety Officer, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590.

(ii) The date that FRA receives a voluntarily-compliant railroad's written notice or February 18, 2021, whichever is later, serves as the date on which the voluntarily-compliant railroad may start compiling or collecting information solely for the purpose of planning, implementing, or evaluating a risk reduction program, as described by ยง 271.11.

(iii) A voluntarily-compliant railroad shall submit its RRP plan no later than 180 days after FRA receives written notice that the voluntarily-compliant railroad intends to submit an RRP plan for review and approval.
