
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 271 - RISK REDUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Review, Approval, and Retention of Risk Reduction Program Plans
###### § 271.301 Filing and approval.
####### Approval.

(d)(1) Within 90 days of receipt of an RRP plan, or within 90 days of receipt of each RRP plan submitted before the start of railroad operations, FRA will review the proposed RRP plan to determine if it sufficiently addresses the required elements. This review will also consider any statement submitted by directly affected employees pursuant to § 271.207(e).

(2) FRA will notify the primary contact person of the submitting railroad in writing whether FRA has approved the proposed plan and, if not approved, the specific points in which the RRP plan is deficient. FRA will also provide this notification to each individual identified in the service list accompanying the consultation statement required under § 271.207(d).

(3) If FRA does not approve an RRP plan, the submitting railroad shall amend the proposed plan to correct all identified deficiencies and shall provide FRA a corrected copy no later than 90 days following receipt of FRA's written notice that the submitted plan was not approved. If FRA determines that the necessary corrections are substantively significant, it will direct the railroad to consult further with its directly affected employees regarding the corrections. If the corrections are substantively significant, a railroad will also be required to include an updated consultation statement, along with its resubmitted plan, pursuant to § 271.207(d). Directly affected employees will also have 30 days following the railroad's resubmission of its proposed RRP plan to file a statement addressing the substantively significant changes under § 271.207(e). Within 60 days of receipt of a corrected RRP plan, FRA will review the corrected RRP plan to determine if it sufficiently addresses the identified deficiencies.

(4) Approval of a railroad's RRP plan under this part does not constitute approval of the specific actions the railroad will implement under its RRP plan and shall not be construed as establishing a Federal standard regarding those specific actions.
