
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### § 299.3 Applicability.

(a) This part applies only to the railroad, as described in § 299.13.

(b) Except as stated in paragraph (c) of this section, this part, rather than the generally applicable Federal railroad safety regulations, shall apply to the railroad.

(c) The following Federal railroad safety regulations found in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and any amendments are applicable to the railroad.

(1) Part 207, Railroad Police Officers;

(2) Part 209, Railroad Safety Enforcement Procedures;

(3) Part 210, Railroad Noise Emission Compliance Regulations;

(4) Part 211, Rules of Practice;

(5) Part 212, State Safety Participation Regulations;

(6) Part 214, Railroad Workplace Safety, except § 214.339;

(7) Part 216, Special Notice and Emergency Order Procedures;

(8) Part 218, Railroad Operating Practices;

(9) Part 219, Control of Alcohol and Drug Use;

(10) Part 220, Radio Standards and Procedures;

(11) Part 225, Railroad Accidents/Incidents: Reports, Classification, and Investigations;

(12) Part 227, Occupational Noise Exposure except § 227.119(c)(10) and (11) with respect to the railroad's high-speed trainsets only, which shall comply with 299.431(h) and (i);

(13) Part 228, Hours of Service of Railroad Employees;

(14) Part 233, Signal Systems Reporting Requirements;

(15) Part 235, Instructions Governing Applications for Approval of a Discontinuance or Material Modification of a Signal System or Relief from the Requirements of Part 236, except § 235.7;

(16) Part 236, Installation, Inspection, Maintenance and Repair of Signal and Train Control System, Devices, and Appliances, subparts A through G, as excepted by the railroad's PTC Safety Plan (PTCSP) under § 299.201(d);

(17) Part 237, Railroad Bridge Safety Standards;

(18) Part 239, Passenger Train Emergency Preparedness;

(19) Part 240, Qualification and Certification of Locomotive Engineers;

(20) Part 242, Qualification and Certification of Train Conductors;

(21) Part 243, Training, Qualification, and Oversight for Safety-Related Railroad Employees;

(22) Part 270, System Safety Program

(23) Part 272, Critical Incident Stress Plans; and

(24) The following parts shall apply to the railroad's maintenance-of-way equipment as it is used in work trains, rescue operations, yard movements, and other non-passenger functions:

(i) Part 215, Railroad Freight Car Safety Standards;

(ii) Part 223, Glazing Standards;

(iii) Part 229, Railroad Locomotive Safety Standards, except-

(A) Section 229.71. Instead, the railroad's maintenance-of-way equipment shall comply with § 299.401(b), except for the sweeper vehicle, which shall have a clearance above top of rail no less than 35 mm (1.77 inches).

(B) Section 229.73. Instead, the railroad's maintenance-of-way equipment shall be designed so as to be compatible with the railroad's track structure under subpart C of this part.

(iv) Part 231, Railroad Safety Appliance Standards; and,

(v) Part 232, Railroad Power Brakes and Drawbars.

(d) The Federal railroad safety statutes apply to all railroads, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 20102. The railroad covered by this part is a railroad under that definition. Therefore, the Federal railroad safety statutes, Subtitle V of Title 49 of the United States Code, apply directly to the railroad. However, pursuant to authority granted under 49 U.S.C. 20306, FRA has exempted the railroad from certain requirements of 49 U.S.C. ch. 203.
