
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart D - Operating Administrations
##### ยง 1.99 Delegations to the Research and Innovative Technology Administrator.
###### Science and technology.

(b)(1) With respect to scientific and technological matters, serve as principal advisor to the Secretary and representative of the Department to the academic community, the private sector, professional organizations, and other federal, state and local government agencies.

(2) Serve as principal liaison official for the Department of Transportation with the Office of Science and Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President, the National Science and Technology Council, and the President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology.

(3) Serve as primary official responsible for coordination and oversight of the Department's implementation of section 2 of the Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986 (15 U.S.C. 3710a), relating to the transfer of Federal technology to the marketplace; and section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-113), as implemented by OMB Circular A-119: Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities.

(4) Serve as Chair and Executive Secretary of the Department of Transportation's Research, Development and Technology Planning Council and Planning Team.

(5) Advocate Department of Transportation policy and program coordination efforts associated with transportation research.

(6) Represent the Department of Transportation on departmental, national and international committees and meetings dealing with transportation research and development (R & D).

(7) Manage the strategic planning process for transportation R & D across the Department of Transportation and, through the National Science and Technology Council, across the Federal Government.

(8) Carry out the transportation research and development strategic planning function vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 508.

(9) Conduct transportation system-level assessments and policy research.

(10) Facilitate the creation of transportation public/private partnerships.

(11) Foster innovation in the transportation sector.

(12) Disseminate information on departmental, national, and international transportation R & D activities.

(13) Provide legal support for Departmental intellectual property and patent issues.

(14) Manage department- and government-wide (inter/multimodal) transportation R & D programs.

(15) Oversee such advisory boards that deal with transportation system-level R & D assessments and issues, such as the Transportation Research Board Committee on the Federal Transportation R & D Strategic Planning Process.
