
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 299.13 System description.
####### Track and infrastructure.

(d)(1) The railroad shall construct its track and infrastructure to meet all material and operational design criteria, within normal acceptable construction tolerances, and to meet the requirements set forth in subpart C of this part.

(2) The railroad shall operate on nominal standard gauge, 1,435 mm (56.5 inches), track.

(3) The railroad shall install and operate on double track throughout the mainlines, with a minimum nominal distance between track centerlines of 4 m (13.1 feet) for operating speeds up to 170 km/h (106 mph) (track Classes up to H4) and 4.2 m (13.8 feet) for operating speeds greater than 170 km/h (106 mph) (track Classes H5 and above). Generally, each track will be used for a single direction of traffic, and trainset will not overtake each other on mainline tracks (except at non-terminal station locations). The railroad may install crossover connections between the double track at each station, and at regular intervals along the line to permit flexibility in trainset operations, maintenance, and emergency rescue.

(4) The railroad's main track (track Classes H4 and above) shall consist of continuous welded rail. Once installed, the rail shall be field-welded to form one continuous track segment except rail expansion joints and where glued-insulated joints are necessary for signaling purposes. The rail shall be JIS E 1101 60 kg rail, as specified in JIS E 1101:2001(E) as amended by JIS E 1101:2006(E), and JIS E 1101:2012(E) (all incorporated by reference, see ยง 299.17).

(5) In yards and maintenance facilities, where operations will be at lower speeds, the railroad shall install either JIS E 1101 50kgN rail or JIS E 1101 60 kg rail as specified in JIS E 1101:2001(E) as amended by JIS E 1101:2006(E), and JIS E 1101:2012(E) (all incorporated by reference, see ยง 299.17).

(6) The railroad shall use either ballasted or non-ballasted track to support the track structure, as appropriate for the intended high-speed system.

(i) Except as noted in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section, for ballasted mainline track structure, the railroad shall install pre-stressed concrete ties.

(ii) For special track work such as turnouts and expansion joints, and at transitions to bridges, and for non-ballasted track, the railroad shall install either pre-stressed, composite ties, or use direct fixation. Detailed requirements are included in subpart C of this part.

(7) Turnouts, expansion joints and glued-insulated joints shall be of the proven design as used on the Tokaido Shinkansen system.

(8) The trainsets and stations shall be designed to permit level platform boarding for passengers and crew at all side entrance doors. Provisions for high level boarding shall be made at all locations in trainset maintenance facilities where crew and maintenance personnel are normally required to access or disembark trainsets.
