
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 299.7 Responsibility for compliance.

(a) The railroad shall not-

(1) Use, haul, or permit to be used or hauled on its line(s) any trainset-

(i) With one or more defects not in compliance with this part; or

(ii) That has not been inspected and tested as required by a provision of this part.

(2) Operate over any track, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, with one or more conditions not in compliance this part, if the railroad has actual knowledge of the facts giving rise to the violation, or a reasonable person acting in the circumstances and exercising reasonable care would have that knowledge.

(3) Violate any other provision of this part or any provision of the applicable FRA regulations listed under ยง 299.3(c).

(b) For purposes of this rule, a trainset shall be considered in use prior to the trainset's departure as soon as it has received, or should have received the inspection required under this part for movement and is ready for service.

(c) Although many of the requirements of this part are stated in terms of the duties of the railroad, when any person (including, but not limited to, a contractor performing safety-related tasks under contract to the railroad subject to this part) performs any function required by this part, that person (whether or not the railroad) is required to perform that function in accordance with this part.

(d) For purposes of this part, the railroad shall be responsible for compliance with all track safety provisions set forth in subpart C of this part. When the railroad and/or its assignee have actual knowledge of the facts giving rise to a violation, or a reasonable person acting in the circumstances and exercising reasonable care would have knowledge that the track does not comply with the requirements of this part, it shall-

(1) Bring the track into compliance;

(2) Halt operations over that track; or

(3) Continue operations over the segment of non-complying track in accordance with the provisions of ยง 299.309(b) or (c).

(e) The FRA Administrator may hold the railroad, the railroad's contractor, or both responsible for compliance with the requirements of this part and subject to civil penalties.
