
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 299.13 System description.
####### Signal and trainset control systems.

(e)(1) The railroad's signal and trainset control systems, shall be based upon the service-proven system utilized on the Tokaido Shinkansen system and shall include an automatic train control (ATC) system, interlocking equipment, and wayside equipment, including: track circuits, transponders, and Go/No-Go signals in stations and trainset maintenance facilities.

(2) The railroad's signaling system shall extend beyond the mainline into trainset maintenance facilities and be designed to prevent collisions at all speeds.

(3) The ATC system shall be designed with a redundant architecture utilizing an intrinsic fail-safe design concept.

(4) The trainset braking curves shall be determined by the on-board equipment based on the ATC signal from the ground facility and on-board database that includes the alignment and rolling stock performance data. The on-board equipment shall generate the braking command based upon the trainset location, speed, and braking curves.

(5) The ATC on-board equipment shall have three modes: mainline, shunting, and cut-out.

(i) Mainline mode shall be used for operations on mainlines and for entering into the trainset maintenance facilities. The mainline mode of ATC on-board equipment shall provide the following functions:

(A) Prevent train-to-train collisions; and

(B) Prevent overspeed derailments.

(ii) Shunting mode shall be used to protect movements within trainset maintenance facilities and for emergency operations as required by the operating rules. When operating in shunting mode, the trainset shall be restricted to a maximum speed of 30 km/h.

(iii) Cut-out mode shall be used for emergency operations and/or in the event of an ATC system failure as required by the operating rules.

(6) Interlocking equipment shall prevent the movement of trainsets through a switch in an improper position and command switch-and-lock movements on mainlines and within trainset maintenance facilities.

(7) Track circuits shall be used to provide broken rail detection.

(8) Overrun protection coils shall be used at mainline turnouts, crossovers within stations and trainset maintenance facilities to prevent unauthorized route access.

(9) Transponders shall be used on the mainline to provide trainset position correction. Transponders may be used to provide an overlay of overrun protection within a trainset maintenance facility.

(10) Go/No-Go signals shall be used in stations for shunting and emergency operations and in trainset maintenance facilities to provide trainset movement authority.

(11) The railroad shall include an intrusion detection system as required by paragraph (b)(3) and (5) of this section that shall interface with the ATC system and have the capability to stop the trainset under specified intrusion scenarios.
