
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Track Safety Standards
###### § 299.319 Track fixation and support.

(a) Crossties, if used shall be of concrete or composite construction, unless otherwise approved by FRA under § 299.15, for all tracks over which trainsets run in revenue service.

(b) Each 25 m (82 feet) segment of track that contains crossties shall have-

(1) A sufficient number of crossties to provide effective support that will-

(i) Hold gauge within limits prescribed in § 299.311;

(ii) Maintain surface within the limits prescribed in § 299.311;

(iii) Maintain alignment within the limits prescribed in § 299.311; and

(iv) Maintain longitudinal rail restraint.

(2) The minimum number and type of crossties specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section and described in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, as applicable, effectively distributed to support the entire segment;

(3) At least one non-defective crosstie of the type specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section that is located at a joint location as specified in paragraph (e) of this section; and

(4) The minimum number of crossties as indicated in the following table:

(c) Crossties, other than concrete, counted to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall not be-

(1) Broken through;

(2) Split or otherwise impaired to the extent the crossties will allow the ballast to work through, or will not hold spikes or rail fasteners;

(3) Deteriorated so that the tie plate or base of rail can move laterally 9.5 mm (inch) relative to the crossties;

(4) Cut by the tie plate through more than 40 percent of a crosstie's thickness;

(5) Configured with less than 2 rail holding spikes or fasteners per tie plate; or

(6) Unable, due to insufficient fastener toeload, to maintain longitudinal restraint and maintain rail hold down and gauge.

(d) Concrete crossties counted to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall not be-

(1) Broken through or deteriorated to the extent that prestressing material is visible;

(2) Deteriorated or broken off in the vicinity of the shoulder or insert so that the fastener assembly can either pull out or move laterally more than 9.5 mm (inch) relative to the crosstie;

(3) Deteriorated such that the base of either rail can move laterally more than 9.5 mm (inch) relative to the crosstie;

(4) Deteriorated so that rail seat abrasion is sufficiently deep so as to cause loss of rail fastener toeload;

(5) Deteriorated such that the crosstie's fastening or anchoring system is unable to maintain longitudinal rail restraint, or maintain rail hold down, or maintain gauge due to insufficient fastener toeload; or

(6) Configured with less than two fasteners on the same rail.

(e) Classes H0 and H1 track shall have one crosstie whose centerline is within 0.61 m (24 inches) of each rail joint (end) location. Classes H2 and H3 track shall have one crosstie whose centerline is within 0.46 m (18 inches) of each rail joint (end) location. Classes H4-H7 track shall have one crosstie whose centerline is within 0.32 m (12.6 inches) of each rail joint (end) location. The relative position of these crossties is described in the following three diagrams:

(1) Each rail joint in Classes H0 and H1 track shall be supported by at least one crosstie specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section whose centerline is within 1.22 m (48 inches) as shown in Figure 1 to this paragraph.

(2) Each rail joint in Classes H2 and H3 track shall be supported by at least one crosstie specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section whose centerline is within 0.92 m (36.2 inches) as shown in Figure 2 to this paragraph.

(3) Each rail joint in Classes H4-H7 track shall be supported by at least one crosstie specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section whose centerline is within 0.64 m (25.2 inches) as shown in Figure 3 to this paragraph.

(f) In Class H3 track there shall be at least two non-defective ties each side of a defective tie.

(g) In Classes H4 to H7 track and at any expansion joints there shall be at least three non-defective ties each side of a defective tie.

(h) Defective ties shall be replaced in accordance with the railroad's inspection, testing, and maintenance program.

(i) Track shall be fastened by a system of components that effectively maintains gauge within the limits prescribed in § 299.311. Each component of each such system shall be evaluated to determine whether gauge is effectively being maintained.

(j) For track constructed without crossties, such as slab track and track connected directly to bridge structural components, track over servicing pits, etc., the track structure shall be sufficient to maintain the geometry limits specified in § 299.311.
