
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Track Safety Standards
###### § 299.349 Inspection records.

(a) The railroad shall keep a record of each inspection required to be performed on that track under this subpart.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, each record of an inspection under §§ 299.325 and 299.345 shall be prepared on the day the inspection is made and signed by the person making the inspection.

(c) Records shall specify the track inspected, date of inspection, location, and nature of any deviation from the requirements of this part, name of qualified individual who made the inspection, and the remedial action, if any, taken by the person making the inspection.

(d) Rail inspection records shall specify the date of inspection, the location and nature of any internal defects found, name of qualified individual who made the inspection, the remedial action taken and the date thereof, and the location of any intervals of track not tested pursuant to § 299.341 of this part. The railroad shall retain a rail inspection record for at least two years after the inspection and for one year after remedial action is taken.

(e) The railroad shall make inspection records required by this section available for inspection and copying by the FRA.

(f) For purposes of compliance with the requirements of this section, the railroad may maintain and transfer records through electronic transmission, storage, and retrieval provided that-

(1) The electronic system is compliant with the requirements of § 299.11;

(2) The electronic storage of each record shall be initiated by the person making the inspection within 24 hours following the completion of that inspection; and

(3) Track inspection records shall be kept available to persons who performed the inspection and to persons performing subsequent inspections.

(g) Each track/vehicle performance record required under § 299.337 shall be made available for inspection and copying by the FRA.
