
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Rolling Stock
###### ยง 299.403 Trainset structure.
####### Dynamic collision scenario.

(c)In addition to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, occupied volume integrity shall also be demonstrated for the trainset through an evaluation of a dynamic collision scenario in which a moving trainset impacts a proxy object under the following conditions:

(1) The initially-moving trainset is made up of the equipment undergoing evaluation at its AW0 ready-to-run weight.

(2) The scenario shall be evaluated on tangent, level track.

(3) The trainset shall have an initial velocity of 32 km/h (20 mph) and shall not be braked.

(4) The proxy object shall have the following characteristics:

(i) The object shall be a solid circular cylinder that weighs 6350 kg (14,000 pounds);

(ii) The object shall have a width of 914 mm (36 inches) and a diameter of 1219 mm (48 inches);

(iii) The axis of the cylinder shall be perpendicular to the direction of trainset motion and parallel to the ground; and

(iv) The center of the object shall be located 762 mm (30 inches) above the top of the underframe.

(5) Two collision configurations shall be evaluated.

(i) The center of the object shall be located 483 mm (19 inches) from the longitudinal centerline of the trainset; and

(ii) The center of the object shall be aligned with the side of the cab car at the point of maximum width.

(6) The model used to demonstrate compliance with the dynamic collision requirements must be validated. Model validation shall be demonstrated and submitted to FRA for review and approval.

(7) As a result of the impact described in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section-

(i) One of the following two conditions must be met for the occupied volume:

(A) There shall be no more than 254 mm (10 inches) of longitudinal permanent deformation; or

(B) Global vehicle shortening shall not exceed 1 percent over any 4.6 m (15-feet) length of occupied volume.

(ii) Compliance with each of the following conditions shall also be demonstrated for the cab after the impact:

(A) Each seat provided for an employee regularly assigned to occupy the cab, and any floor-mounted seat in the cab, shall maintain a survival space where there is no intrusion for a minimum of 305 mm (12 inches) from each edge of the seat. Walls or other items originally within this defined space shall not further intrude more than 38 mm (1.5 inches) towards the seat under evaluation.

(B) There shall be a clear exit path for the occupants of the cab;

(C) The vertical height of the cab (floor to ceiling) shall not be reduced by more than 20 percent; and

(D) The operating console shall not have moved closer to the driver's seat by more than 51 mm (2 inches).
