
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Rolling Stock
###### ยง 299.415 Doors.

(a) Each powered, exterior side door in a vestibule that is partitioned from the passenger compartment of a trainset shall have a manual override device that is-

(1) Capable of releasing the door to permit it to be opened without power.

(2) Located such that-

(i) Interior access is provided adjacent to each manual door release mechanism; and,

(ii) Exterior access is provided on each side of each car.

(3) Designed and maintained so that a person may access and operate the override device readily without requiring the use of a tool or other implement.

(4) The railroad may protect a manual override device used to open a powered, exterior door with a cover or a screen.

(5) When a manual override device is activated, door panel friction, including seals and hangers, shall allow the doors to be opened or closed manually with as low a force as practicable.

(6) The emergency release mechanism shall require manual reset.

(b) Each passenger car shall have a minimum of one exterior side door per side. Each such door shall provide a minimum clear opening with dimensions of 813 mm (32 inches) horizontally by 1,850 mm (72.8 inches) vertically.

(c) Door exits shall be marked, and instructions provided for their use, as specified in ยง 299.423.

(d) All doors intended for access by emergency responders shall be marked, and instructions provided for their use, as specified in ยง 299.423.

(e) Vestibule doors and other interior doors intended for passage through a passenger car.
