
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Rolling Stock
###### ยง 299.423 Markings and instructions for emergency egress and rescue access.
####### Rescue access signage/marking systems.

(c)(1) Rescue access signage and marking systems shall enable emergency responders to make positive identification of rescue access points.

(2) Rescue access information for emergency responders placed on the exterior of the carbody shall, at a minimum, consist of the following:

(i) Each door intended for use by emergency responders for rescue access shall be identified with emergency access signs, symbols, or other conspicuous marking consisting of retroreflective material that complies with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(ii) Rescue access door control locator signs/markings and instructions;

(A) Each door intended for use by emergency responders for rescue access shall have operating instructions for opening the door from outside the car placed on or immediately adjacent to the door on the carbody. If a power door does not function with an integral release mechanism, the instructions shall indicate the location of the exterior manual door control.

(B) Each power door intended for use by emergency responders for rescue access which has a non-integral release mechanism located away from the door, shall have a door control sign/marking placed at the location of this control that provides instructions for emergency operation, either as part of the access sign/marking or as another sign/marking.

(C) Each car equipped with manual doors shall have operating instructions for opening the door from the exterior, either as part of the access sign/marking or as another sign/marking.

(iii) Rescue access window locator signs/markings and instructions; and

(A) Each rescue access window shall be identified with a unique retroreflective and easily recognizable sign, symbol, or other conspicuous marking that complies with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(B) Signs, symbols, or marking shall be placed at the bottom of each such window, on each window, or adjacent to each window, utilizing arrows, where necessary, to clearly designate rescue assess window location. Legible and understandable window-access instructions, including any pictogram/instructions for removing the window, shall be posted at or near each rescue access window.

(iv) Roof access locator signs/markings and instructions.

(A) The location of each emergency access point provided on the roof of a passenger car shall be clearly marked with retroreflective material of contrasting color that complies with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(B) Legible and understandable instructions shall be posted at or near each such location.

(C) If emergency roof access is provided by means of a structural weak point:
