
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Rolling Stock
###### ยง 299.435 Electrical system design.
####### Overhead collector systems.

(a)(1) Pantographs shall be so arranged that they can be operated from the driver's normal position in the cab. Pantographs that automatically rise when released shall have an automatic locking device to secure them in the down position.

(2) Each overhead collector system, including the pantograph, shall be equipped with a means to electrically ground any uninsulated parts to prevent the risk of electrical shock when working on the system.

(3) Means shall be provided to permit the driver to determine that the pantograph is in its lowest position, and for securing the pantograph if necessary, without the need to mount the roof of the trainset.

(4) Each trainset equipped with a pantograph operating on an overhead collection system shall also be equipped with a means to safely lower the pantograph in the event of an emergency. If an emergency pole is used for this purpose, that part of the pole which can be safely handled shall be marked to so indicate. This pole shall be protected from moisture and damage when not in use. Means of securement and electrical isolation of a damaged pantograph, when it cannot be performed automatically, shall be addressed in the railroad's operating rules.
