
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Rolling Stock
###### ยง 299.441 Trainset electronic hardware and software safety.
####### Inspection, testing, and maintenance records.

(e)The inspection, testing, and maintenance conducted by the railroad in accordance with ยง 299.445 shall be recorded in hardcopy or stored electronically. Electronic recordkeeping or automated tracking systems, subject to the provisions contained in ยง 299.11, may be utilized to store and maintain any testing or training record required by this subpart. Results of product testing conducted by a vendor in support of a safety analysis shall be provided to and recorded by the railroad.

(1) The testing records shall contain all of the following:

(i) The name of the railroad;

(ii) The location and date that the test was conducted;

(iii) The equipment tested;

(iv) The results of tests;

(v) The repairs or replacement of equipment;

(vi) Any preventative adjustments made; and

(vii) The condition in which the equipment is left.

(2) Each record shall be-

(i) Signed by the employee conducting the test, or electronically coded, or identified by the automated test equipment number;

(ii) Filed in the office of a supervisory official having jurisdiction, unless otherwise noted; and

(iii) Available for inspection and copying by FRA.

(3) The results of the testing conducted in accordance with this section shall be retained as follows:

(i) The results of tests that pertain to installation or modification of a product shall be retained for the life-cycle of the product tested and may be kept in any office designated by the railroad;

(ii) The results of periodic tests required for the maintenance or repair of the product tested shall be retained until the next record is filed and in no case less than one year; and

(iii) The results of all other tests and training shall be retained until the next record is filed and in no case less than one year.
