
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 299 - TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD HIGH-SPEED RAIL SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart F - System Qualification Tests
###### § 299.613 Verification of compliance.

(a) The railroad shall prepare a report detailing the results of functional and performance qualification tests, pre-revenue service system integration testing, and vehicle/track system qualification tests required under §§ 299.605, 299.607, and 299.609 respectively. The report shall identify any problems encountered during testing, and alternative actions necessary to correct defects in workmanship, materials, equipment, design, or operating parameters.

(b) The railroad shall implement all actions necessary to correct defects, as identified by the report.

(c) The railroad shall submit the report(s) required by paragraph (a) of this section to FRA prior to commencing simulated revenue operations and at least 60 days prior to the intended start of full revenue service per § 299.609(f).

(d)(1) Prior to implementing a major upgrade to any safety-critical system component or sub-system, or prior to introducing any new safety-critical technology, the railroad shall submit for FRA approval the detailed test procedures and/or analysis in accordance with § 299.603(d).

(2) The railroad shall prepare a report detailing the results of functional and performance qualification tests, pre-revenue service system integration testing, and vehicle/track system qualification tests required under §§ 299.605, 299.607, and 299.609 respectively pertaining to a major upgrade to any safety-critical system component or sub-system, or introduction of any new safety-critical technology. The report shall identify any problems encountered during testing, and alternative actions necessary to correct defects in workmanship, materials, equipment, design, or operating parameters.
