
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 325 - COMPLIANCE WITH INTERSTATE MOTOR CARRIER NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS
###### Subpart E - Measurement of Noise Emissions; Stationary Test
####### ยง 325.59 Measurement procedure; stationary test.

In accordance with the rules in this subpart, a measurement shall be made of the sound level generated by a stationary motor vehicle as follows:

(a) Park the motor vehicle on the test site as specified in ยง 325.53 of this subpart. If the motor vehicle is a combination (articulated) vehicle, park the combination so that the longitudinal centerlines of the towing vehicle and the towed vehicle or vehicles are in substantial alinement.

(b) Turn off all auxiliary equipment which is installed on the motor vehicle and which is designed to operate under normal conditions only when the vehicle is operating at a speed of 5 mph (8 kph) or less. Examples of such equipment include cranes, asphalt spreaders, liquid or slurry pumps, auxiliary air compressors, welders, and trash compactors.

(c) If the motor vehicle's engine radiator fan drive is equipped with a clutch or similar device that automatically either reduces the rotational speed of the fan or completely disengages the fan from its power source in response to reduced engine cooling loads, park the vehicle before testing with its engine running at high idle or any other speed the operator may choose, for sufficient time but not more than 10 minutes, to permit the engine radiator fan to automatically disengage when the vehicle's noise emissions are measured under stationary test.

(d) With the motor vehicle's transmission in neutral and its clutch engaged, rapidly accelerate the vehicle's engine from idle to its maximum governed speed with wide open throttle. Return the engine's speed to idle.

(e) Observe the maximum reading on the sound level measurement system during the time the procedures specified in paragraph (d) of this section are followed. Record that reading, if the reading has not been influenced by extraneous noise sources such as motor vehicles operating on adjacent roadways.

(f) Repeat the procedures specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section until the first two maximum sound level readings that are within 2 dB(A) of each other are recorded. Numerically average those two maximum sound level readings. When appropriate, correct the average figure in accordance with the rules in subpart F of this part.

(g) The average figure, corrected as appropriate, contained in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, is the sound level generated by the motor vehicle for the purpose of determining whether it conforms to the Standard for Operation Under Stationary Test, 40 CFR 202.21. (Table 1 in ยง 325.7 lists the range of maximum permissible sound level readings for various test conditions.)
