
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 325 - COMPLIANCE WITH INTERSTATE MOTOR CARRIER NOISE EMISSION STANDARDS
###### Subpart D - Measurement of Noise Emissions; Highway Operations
####### ยง 325.37 Location and operation of sound level measurement system; highway operations.

(a) The microphone of a sound level measurement system that conforms to the rules in ยง 325.23 of this part shall be located at a height of not less than 2 feet (.6 m) nor more than 6 feet (1.8 M) above the plane of the roadway surface and not less than 3feet (1.1 m) above the surface on which the microphone stands. The preferred microphone height on flat terrain is 4 feet (1.2 m).

(b)(1) When the sound level measurement system is hand-held or is otherwise monitored by a person located near its microphone, the holder must orient himself/herself relative to the highway in a manner consistent with the recommendation of the manufacturer of the sound level measurement system.

(2) In no case shall the holder or observer be closer than 2 feet (.6 m) from the system's microphone, nor shall he/she locate himself/herself between the microphone and the vehicle being measured.

(c) The microphone of the sound level measurement system shall be oriented toward the traveled lane of the highway at the microphone target point at an angle that is consistent with the recommendation of the system's manufacturer. If the manufacturer of the system does not recommend an angle of orientation for its microphone, the microphone shall be oriented toward the highway at an angle of not less than 70 degrees and not more than perpendicular to the horizontal plane of the traveled lane of the highway at the microphone target point.

(d) The sound level measurement system shall be set to the A-weighting network and "fast" meter response mode.
