
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 350 - MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (MCSAP) AND HIGH PRIORITY PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - MCSAP Administration
####### ยง 350.217 How are MCSAP funds allocated?
######## Border States.

(c)(1) Not more than 11 percent of the MCSAP funds may be allocated in accordance with this paragraph among Border States that maintain a border enforcement program.

(2) The shares for each Border State will be calculated based on the number of CMV crossings at each United States port of entry, as determined by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, with each Border State receiving:

(i) 1 share per 25,000 annual CMV crossings at each United States port of entry on the Mexican border, with a minimum of 8 shares for each port of entry; or

(ii) 1 share per 200,000 annual CMV crossings at each United States port of entry on the Canadian border, with a minimum of 0.25 share for each port of entry with more than 1,000 annual CMV crossings.

(3) The shares of all Border States calculated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be totaled.

(4) Each individual Border State's shares calculated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be divided by the total shares calculated in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(5) The percentages calculated in paragraph (c)(4) of this section will be adjusted proportionally to ensure that each Border State receives at least 0.075 percent but no more than 55 percent of the total border allocation available under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(6) Each Border State's percentage calculated in paragraph (c)(5) of this section will be multiplied by the total border allocation available under this paragraph to determine the dollar amount of the Border State's allocation.

(7) To maintain eligibility for an allocation under this paragraph, a Border State must maintain a border enforcement program, but may expend more or less than the amounts allocated under this paragraph for border activities. Failure to maintain a border enforcement program will result in forfeiture of all funds allocated under this paragraph, but will not affect the Border State's allocation under paragraph (d) of this section.

(8) Allocations made under this paragraph are in addition to allocations made under paragraph (d) of this section.
