
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 350 - MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (MCSAP) AND HIGH PRIORITY PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - MCSAP Administration
####### ยง 350.217 How are MCSAP funds allocated?
######## States-including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(d)(1)(i) At least 88.51 percent of the MCSAP funds must be allocated in accordance with this paragraph (d)(1)(i) among the eligible States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, but excluding American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.

(ii) The amounts made available under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section that are not allocated under those paragraphs must be added to the total amount to be allocated in accordance with this paragraph.

(iii) In the case of reallocation of funds under paragraph (c) of this section by a Border State that no longer maintains a border enforcement program, no portion of the reallocated funds will be allocated to that Border State.

(2) The amount available under paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be calculated based on each State's percentage of the national total for each of the following equally-weighted factors:

(i) National Highway System Road Length Miles, as reported by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA);

(ii) All Vehicle Miles Traveled, as reported by the FHWA;

(iii) Population (annual census estimates), as issued by the U.S. Census Bureau;

(iv) Special Fuel Consumption, as reported by the FHWA; and

(v) Carrier Registrations, as determined by FMCSA, based on the physical State of the carrier, and calculated as the sum of interstate carriers and intrastate hazardous materials carriers.

(3) Each State's percentages calculated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section will be averaged.

(4) The percentage calculated in paragraph (d)(3) of this section will be adjusted proportionally to ensure that each State receives at least 0.44 percent but no more than 4.944 percent of the MCSAP funds available under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(5) Each State's percentage will be multiplied by the total MCSAP funds available under this paragraph to determine the dollar amount of the State's allocation.
