
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 350 - MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (MCSAP) AND HIGH PRIORITY PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - MCSAP-Required Compatibility Review
####### ยง 350.303 How does a State ensure compatibility?
######## Annual State compatibility review.

(d)(1) A State must conduct a review of its laws, regulations, standards, and orders on CMV safety, including those of its political subdivisions, for compatibility and report in the first year of the CVSP or annual update as part of its application for funding under ยง 350.209 each fiscal year. In conducting this compatibility review, the State must determine which of its laws, regulations, standards, and orders on CMV safety are identical to or have the same effect as, are in addition to or more stringent than, or are less stringent than the FMCSRs or are identical to the HMRs.

(2) As applicable to interstate commerce not involving the movement of hazardous materials:

(i) If a State satisfactorily demonstrates a law, regulation, standard, or order on CMV safety is identical to or has the same effect as the FMCSRs, the State provision is compatible and enforceable.

(ii) If a State satisfactorily demonstrates a law, regulation, standard, or order on CMV safety that is in addition to or more stringent than the FMCSRs has a safety benefit, does not unreasonably frustrate the Federal goal of uniformity, and does not cause an unreasonable burden on interstate commerce when enforced, the State provision is compatible and enforceable.

(iii) If a State law, regulation, standard, or order on CMV safety is less stringent than the FMCSRs, the State provision is not compatible and not enforceable.

(3) As applicable to intrastate commerce not involving the movement of hazardous materials:

(i) If a State satisfactorily demonstrates a law, regulation, standard, or order on CMV safety is identical to or has the same effect as the FMCSRs, the State provision is compatible and enforceable.

(ii) If a State satisfactorily demonstrates a law, regulation, standard, or order on CMV safety that is in addition to, more stringent than, or less stringent than the FMCSRs falls within a limited variance from the FMCSRs allowed under ยง 350.305 or ยง 350.307, the State provision is compatible and enforceable.

(4) As applicable to interstate and intrastate commerce involving the movement of hazardous materials, if a State satisfactorily demonstrates a law, regulation, standard, or order on CMV safety is identical to the HMRs, the State provision is compatible and enforceable.

(5) The State's laws, regulations, standards, and orders on CMV safety reviewed for the commercial driver's license compliance report are excluded from the compatibility review.

(6) Definitions of words or terms in a State's laws, regulations, standards, and orders on CMV safety must be compatible with those in the FMCSRs and HMRs.
