
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 365 - RULES GOVERNING APPLICATIONS FOR OPERATING AUTHORITY
###### Subpart A - How To Apply for Operating Authority
####### ยง 365.101T Applications governed by these rules.

These rules govern the handling of applications for operating authority of the following type:

(a) Applications for certificates and permits to operate as a motor common or contract carrier of property or passengers.

(b) Applications for permits to operate as a freight forwarder.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Applications for licenses to operate as a broker of motor vehicle transportation.

(e) Applications for certificates under 49 U.S.C. 13902(b)(3) to operate as a motor carrier of passengers in intrastate commerce over regular routes if such intrastate transportation is to be provided on a route over which the carrier provides interstate transportation of passengers.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Applications for temporary motor carrier authority.

(h) Applications for Mexico-domiciled motor carriers to operate in foreign commerce as for-hire or private motor carriers of property (including exempt items) between Mexico and all points in the United States. A Mexico-domiciled motor carrier may not provide point-to-point transportation services, including express delivery services, within the United States for goods other than international cargo.

(i) Applications for non-North America-domiciled motor carriers to operate in foreign commerce as for-hire motor carriers of property and passengers within the United States.

(j) The rules in this part do not apply to "pipeline welding trucks" as defined in 49 CFR 390.38(b).
