
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 365 - RULES GOVERNING APPLICATIONS FOR OPERATING AUTHORITY
###### Subpart A - How To Apply for Operating Authority
####### ยง 365.107 Types of applications.
######## Fitness applications.

(a)Motor property applications and certain types of motor passenger applications require the finding that the applicant is fit, willing and able to perform the involved operations and to comply with all applicable statutory and regulatory provisions. These applications can be opposed only on the grounds that applicant is not fit [e.g., is not in compliance with applicable financial responsibility and safety fitness requirements]. These applications are:

(1) Motor carrier of property (except household goods).

(2) Broker of general commodities or household goods.

(3) Certain types of motor carrier of passenger applications as described in Form MCSA-1.

(b) Motor carrier of passenger "public interest" applications as described in Form MCSA-1.

(c) Intrastate motor passenger applications under 49 U.S.C. 13902(b)(3) as described in Form MCSA-1.

(d) Motor carrier of household goods applications, including Mexico- or non-North America-domiciled carrier applicants. In addition to meeting the fitness standard under paragraph (a) of this section, an applicant seeking authority to operate as a motor carrier of household goods must:

(1) Provide evidence of participation in an arbitration program and provide a copy of the notice of the arbitration program as required by 49 U.S.C. 14708(b)(2);

(2) Identify its tariff and provide a copy of the notice of the availability of that tariff for inspection as required by 49 U.S.C. 13702(c);

(3) Provide evidence that it has access to, has read, is familiar with, and will observe all applicable Federal laws relating to consumer protection, estimating, consumers' rights and responsibilities, and options for limitations of liability for loss and damage; and

(4) Disclose any relationship involving common stock, common ownership, common management, or common familial relationships between the applicant and any other motor carrier, freight forwarder, or broker of household goods within 3 years of the proposed date of registration.

(e) Temporary authority (TA) for motor carriers. These applications require a finding that there is or soon will be an immediate transportation need that cannot be met by existing carrier service.

(1) Applications for TA will be entertained only when an emergency declaration has been made pursuant to ยง 390.23 of this subchapter.

(2) Temporary authority must be requested by filing Form MCSA-1.

(3) Applications for temporary authority are not subject to protest.

(4) Motor carriers granted temporary authority must comply with financial responsibility requirements under part 387 of this subchapter.

(5) Only a U.S.-domiciled motor carrier is eligible to receive temporary authority.
