
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 365 - RULES GOVERNING APPLICATIONS FOR OPERATING AUTHORITY
###### Subpart D - Transfer of Operating Rights Under 49 U.S.C. 10926
####### ยง 365.405T Applications.
######## Procedural requirements.

(a)(1) At least 10 days before consummation, an original and two copies of a properly completed Form OP-FC-1 and any attachments (see paragraph (b)(1)(viii) of this section) must be filed with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Registration and Safety Information (MC-RS), 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.

(2) At any time after the expiration of the 10-day waiting period, applicants may consummate the transaction, subject to the subsequent approval of the application by the FMCSA, as described below. The transferee may commence operations under the rights acquired from the transferor upon its compliance with the FMCSA's regulations governing insurance, and process agents. See 49 CFR parts 387, subpart C, and 366, respectively. In the alternative, applicants may wait until the FMCSA has issued a decision on their application before transferring the operating rights. If the transferee wants the transferor's operating authority to be reissued in its name, it should furnish the FMCSA with a statement executed by both transferor and transferee indicating that the transaction has been consummated. Authority will not be reissued until after the FMCSA has approved the transaction.
