
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 365 - RULES GOVERNING APPLICATIONS FOR OPERATING AUTHORITY
###### Subpart D - Transfer of Operating Rights Under 49 U.S.C. 10926
####### ยง 365.405T Applications.
######## i.e.,

(vi) Certification by transferor and transferee of their current respective safety ratings by the United States Department of Transportation (satisfactory, conditional, unsatisfactory, or unrated).

(vii) Certification by the transferee that it has sufficient insurance coverage under 49 U.S.C. 13906 for the service it intends to provide.

(viii) Information to demonstrate that the proposed transaction is consistent with the national transportation policy and satisfies the criteria for approval set forth at ยง 365.409T. (Such information may be appended to the application form and, if provided, would be embraced by the oath and verification contained on that form.)

(ix) If motor carrier operating rights are being transferred, certification by the transferee that it is not domiciled in Mexico nor owned or controlled by persons of that country.

(2) Category 2 applicants must also submit the following additional information:

(i) Name(s) of the carrier(s), if any, with which the transferee is affiliated.

(ii) Aggregate revenues of the transferor, transferee, and their carrier affiliates from interstate transportation sources for a 1-year period ending not earlier than 6 months before the date of the agreement of the parties concerning the transaction. If revenues exceed $2 million, the transfer may be subject to 49 U.S.C. 14303 rather than these rules.
