
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 373 - RECEIPTS AND BILLS
###### Subpart A - Motor Carrier Receipts and Bills
####### ยง 373.103 For-hire, non-exempt expense bills.
######## Charter transportation of passenger service.

(b)(1) Every for-hire, non-exempt motor carrier providing charter transportation of passenger service shall issue an expense bill containing the following information:

(i) Serial number, consisting of one of a series of consecutive numbers assigned in advance and imprinted on the bill.

(ii) Name of carrier.

(iii) Names of payor and organization, if any, for which transportation is performed.

(iv) Date(s) transportation was performed.

(v) Origin, destination, and general routing of trip.

(vi) Identification and seating capacity of each vehicle used.

(vii) Number of persons transported.

(viii) Mileage upon which charges are based, including any deadhead mileage, separately noted.

(ix) Applicable rates per mile, hour, day, or other unit.

(x) Itemized charges for transportation, including special services and fees.

(xi) Total charges assessed and collected.

(2) The carrier shall keep a copy of all expense bills issued for the period prescribed at 49 CFR part 379. If any expense bill is spoiled, voided, or unused for any reason, a copy or written record of its disposition shall be retained for a like period.
