
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 374 - PASSENGER CARRIER REGULATIONS
###### Subpart C - Adequacy of Intercity Motor Carrier Passenger Service
####### ยง 374.307 Baggage service.
######## Lost or delayed baggage.

(f)(1) Checked baggage that cannot be located within 1 hour after the arrival of the bus upon which it was supposed to be transported shall be designated as lost. The carrier shall notify the passenger at that time and furnish him with an appropriate tracing form.

(2) Every carrier shall make available at each ticket window and baggage counter a single form suitable both for tracing and for filing claims for lost or misplaced baggage. The form shall be prepared in duplicate and signed by the passenger and carrier representative. The carrier or its agent shall receive the signed original, with any necessary documentation and additional information, and the claim check, for which a receipt shall be given. The passenger shall retain the duplicate copy.

(3) The carrier shall make immediate and diligent efforts to recover lost baggage.

(4) A passenger may fill out a tracing form for lost unchecked baggage. The carrier shall forward recovered unchecked baggage to the terminal or station nearest the address shown on the tracing form and shall notify the passenger that the baggage will be held on a will-call basis.
