
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 374 - PASSENGER CARRIER REGULATIONS
###### Subpart E - Incidental Charter Rights
####### ยง 374.505 Exceptions.

(a) Incidental charter rights do not authorize the transportation of passengers to whom the carrier has sold individual tickets or with whom the carrier has made separate and individual transportation arrangements.

(b) Service provided under incidental charter rights may not be operated between the same points or over the same route so frequently as to constitute a regular-route service.

(c) Passenger transportation within the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit District (as defined in the Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation Regulation Compact, Pub. L. No. 86-794, 74 Stat. 1031 (1960), as amended by Pub. L. No. 87-767, 76 Stat. (1962) is not authorized by these regulations, but is subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation Commission.

(d) A private or public recipient of governmental assistance (within the meaning of 49 U.S.C. 13902(b)(8)) may provide service under incidental charter rights only for special or chartered parties originating in the area in which the private or public recipient provides regularly scheduled mass transportation services under the specific qualifying certificate that confers its incidental charter rights.
