
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 375 - TRANSPORTATION OF HOUSEHOLD GOODS IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE; CONSUMER PROTECTION REGULATIONS
###### Subpart B - Before Offering Services to My Customers
####### General Responsibilities
######## ยง 375.213 What information must I provide to a prospective individual shipper?
######### Furnished by XYZ Van Lines, as Required by Federal Law

(3) If you publish the document, you may choose the color and design of the front and back covers of the publication. The following words must appear prominently on the front cover in 12-point or larger bold or full-faced type: "Your Rights and Responsibilities When You Move. Furnished by Your Mover, as Required by Federal Law." You may substitute your name or trade name in place of "Your Mover" if you wish (for example,).

(d) Paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section do not apply to exact copies of appendix A published in thethe Code of Federal Regulations, or on FMCSA's Web site.

(e) If you have a website, you are required to display prominently either a link to the DOT publication titled "Ready to Move?-Tips for a Successful Interstate Move" (DOT publication FMCSA-ESA-03-005, or its successor publication) on the FMCSA website or a true and accurate copy of that document on your website.

(f) If an individual shipper elects to access the Federal consumer protection information via the hyperlink on the internet as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:

(1) You must obtain a signed, dated receipt showing the individual shipper has received either or both of the publications that includes verification of the shipper's agreement to access the Federal consumer protection information on the internet.

(2) You must maintain the signed receipt required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section for one year from the date the individual shipper signs the receipt. You are not required to maintain the signed receipt when you do not actually transport household goods or perform related services for the individual shipper who signed the receipt.
