
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 375 - TRANSPORTATION OF HOUSEHOLD GOODS IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE; CONSUMER PROTECTION REGULATIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 375 - Your Rights and Responsibilities When You Move

The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's (FMCSA) regulations protect consumers of interstate moves and define the rights and responsibilities of consumers (shippers) and household goods motor carriers (movers).

The household goods motor carrier gave you this booklet to provide information about your rights and responsibilities as an individual shipper of household goods. Your primary responsibilities are to ensure that you understand the terms and conditions of the moving contract (bill of lading), and know what to do in case problems arise.

The primary responsibility for protecting your move lies with you in selecting a reputable household goods mover or household goods broker, and making sure you understand the terms and conditions of your contract and the remedies that are available to you in case problems arise.

Accessorial (Additional) Services-These are services such as packing, unpacking, appliance servicing, or piano carrying, that you request to be performed or are necessary because of landlord requirements or other special circumstances.

Advanced Charges-Charges for services performed by someone other than the mover. A professional, craftsman, or other third party may perform these services at your request. The mover pays for these services and adds the charges to your bill of lading.

Agent-A local moving company authorized to act on behalf of a larger national company.

Appliance Service by Third Party-The preparation of major electrical appliances to make them safe for transportation. Charges for these services may be in addition to the line-haul charges.

Bill of Lading-The receipt for your shipment and the contract for its transportation.

Broker-A company that arranges for the transportation of household goods by a registered moving company.

Collect on Delivery (COD)-This means payment is required at the time of delivery at the destination residence (or warehouse).

Certified Scale-Any scale designed for weighing motor vehicles, including trailers or semitrailers not attached to a tractor, and certified by an authorized scale inspection and licensing authority. A certified scale may also be a platform or warehouse type scale that is properly inspected and certified.

Commercial Zone-A commercial zone is roughly equivalent to the local metropolitan area of a city or town. Moves that cross state lines within these zones are exempt from FMCSA's commercial jurisdiction and, therefore, the moves are not subject to FMCSA household goods regulations. For example, a move between Brooklyn, New York, and Hackensack, New Jersey, would be within the New York City commercial zone. Although it crossed states lines, this move would not be subject to FMCSA household goods regulations.

Estimate, Binding-This is a written agreement made in advance with your mover. It guarantees the total cost of the move based upon the quantities and services shown on the estimate.

Estimate, Non-Binding-This is what your mover believes the cost will be, based upon the estimated weight of the shipment and the services requested. A non-binding estimate is not binding on the mover. The final charges will be based upon the actual weight of your shipment, the services provided, and the tariff provisions in effect.

Expedited Service-An agreement with the mover to perform transportation by a set date in exchange for an agreed upon additional charge.

Flight Charge-An additional charge for carrying items up or down flights of stairs. Charges for these services may be in addition to the line-haul charges.

Full Value Protection-The liability coverage option you are to receive for your shipment unless you waive this option in writing. It means your mover will process your loss and damage claim by replacing or repairing the item to restore its original like, kind, and quality.

Guaranteed Pickup and/or Delivery Service-An additional level of service featuring guaranteed dates of service. Your mover will provide reimbursement to you for delays. This service may be subject to minimum weight requirements.

High-Value Article-These are items valued at more than $100 per pound.

Household Goods-As used in connection with transportation, household goods are the personal effects or property used, or to be used, in a dwelling, when part of the equipment or supplies of the dwelling belong to an individual shipper. Transporting of the household goods must be arranged for and paid by you or another individual on your behalf.

Household Goods Motor Carrier-A motor carrier that, in the normal course of its business of providing transportation of household goods, offers some or all the following additional services: (1) Binding and non-binding estimates, (2) Inventorying, (3) Protective packing and unpacking of individual items at personal residences, and (4) Loading and unloading at personal residences. The term does not include a motor carrier when the motor carrier provides transportation of household goods in containers or trailers that are entirely loaded and unloaded by an individual (other than an employee or agent of the motor carrier).

Individual Shipper-Any person who:

1. Is the shipper, consignor, or consignee of a household goods shipment;

2. Is identified as the shipper, consignor, or consignee on the face of the bill of lading;

3. Owns the household goods being transported; and

4. Pays his or her own tariff transportation charges.

Impracticable Operations-Conditions which make it physically impossible for the mover to perform pickup or delivery with its normally assigned road-haul equipment so that the mover is required to use specialized equipment and/or additional labor to complete pickup or delivery of your shipment. A mover may require payment of additional charges for services required due to impracticable operations, even if you do not request these services. The specific services considered to be impracticable operations by your mover are defined in your mover's tariff.

Inventory-The detailed list of your household goods showing the quantity and condition of each item.

Line-Haul Charges-The charges for the transportation portion of your move when a household goods mover transports your shipment.

Household goods brokers or movers must provide you with basic information before you move. You should expect to receive the following information:

You should avoid brokers and movers that are not registered with FMCSA or refuse to perform a physical survey of your household goods. If a broker or mover requires cash, FMCSA advises you to retain all receipts and supporting documents associated with the transaction.

As a customer, you have responsibilities both to your mover and to yourself. They include:

- Reading all moving documents issued by the mover or broker.

- Being available at the time of pickup and delivery of your shipment. If you are not available, you should appoint a representative to act on your behalf.
