
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 375 - TRANSPORTATION OF HOUSEHOLD GOODS IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE; CONSUMER PROTECTION REGULATIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 375 - Your Rights and Responsibilities When You Move
####### http://li-public.fmcsa.dot.gov.

1. Go to

2. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click on CONTINUE.

3. At the top of the screen click on CHOOSE MENU OPTION, for the drop-down box and select CARRIER SEARCH, then press GO.

4. Type in the USDOT or MC number for the motor carrier.

5. Click on HTML.

6. Scroll to the bottom of the page, see BLANKET COMPANY, and click on the link.

7. You will see a list of process agents by State, locate the process agent for your State.

The FMCSA cannot settle your dispute with your mover. You must resolve your own loss and damage and/or moving charge disputes with your mover.

You entered into a contractual agreement with your mover. Therefore, you are bound by each of the following terms and conditions:

1. The terms and conditions you accepted when you signed the bill of lading.

2. The terms and conditions you accepted when you signed for delivery of your shipment.

3. Any additional terms and conditions you agreed to with your mover.

If your mover refuses to deliver your shipment unless you pay an amount the mover is not entitled to charge, contact FMCSA immediately at (888) 368-7238.

1. Movers must give written estimates. The estimates may be either binding or non-binding. Non-binding estimates are "approximations" only, and the actual transportation charges you are eventually required to pay may be higher than the estimated price.

2. Do not sign blank documents. Verify the document is complete before you sign. In limited situations, it may be appropriate to sign an incomplete document if the only information that does not appear in your moving paperwork is the actual weight of your shipment (in the case of a non-binding estimate) and unforeseen charges that occur in transit or at destination.
