
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 375 - TRANSPORTATION OF HOUSEHOLD GOODS IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE; CONSUMER PROTECTION REGULATIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 375 - Your Rights and Responsibilities When You Move
####### i.e.,

1. The legal or trade name (doing business as name) of the mover as it is registered with FMCSA, to include its physical address.

2. The names, telephone numbers, addresses, and USDOT Numbers of any motor carriers, when known, who will participate in transportation of the shipment.

3. Your name, address, and, if available, telephone number(s).

4. The form of payment the mover and its agents will honor at delivery. The payment information must be the same that was entered on the estimate.

5. When transportation is on a collect-on-delivery basis, the name, address, and if furnished, the telephone number, facsimile number, or email address of a person to notify about the charges. The notification may also be made by overnight courier or certified mail, return receipt requested.

6. For non-guaranteed service, the agreed date or period of time for pickup of the shipment and the agreed date or period of time for the delivery of the shipment.

7. For guaranteed service, subject to tariff provisions, the dates for pickup and delivery, and any penalty or per diem entitlements due to you.

8. The actual date of pickup.

9. The company or motor carrier identification number of the vehicle(s) that will transport your shipment.

10. The terms and conditions for payment of the total charges, including notice of any minimum charges.

11. The maximum amount your mover will demand at the time of delivery in order for you to obtain possession of the shipment, when you transport under a collect-on-delivery basis.

12. The valuation statements provided in the Surface Transportation Board (STB)'s released rates order. These statements require individual shippers either to accept Full Value Protection for their liability or to waive the Full Value Protection in favor of the STB's released rates. The released rates may be increased annually by the motor carrier based on the U.S. Department of Commerce's Cost of Living Adjustment. Contact the STB for a copy of the Released Rates of Motor Carrier Shipments of Household Goods. If the individual shipper waives your Full Value Protection in writing on the STB's valuation statement, you must include the charges, if any, for optional valuation coverage (other than Full Value Protection).

13. Evidence of any insurance coverage sold to or procured for the individual shipper from an independent insurer, including the amount of the premium for such insurance.

14. A complete description of any special or accessorial services ordered and minimum weight or volume charges applicable to the shipment, subject to the following two conditions:

(i) If your mover provides service for you on rates based upon the transportation of a minimum weight or volume, your mover must indicate on the bill of lading the minimum weight- or volume-based rates, and the minimum charges applicable to the shipment.

(ii) If your mover does not indicate the minimum rates and charges, your mover's tariff must provide information to compute the final charges relating to such a shipment based upon the actual weight or volume of the shipment.

15. Each attachment to the bill of lading is an integral part of the contract. That includes the binding or non-binding estimate, inventory and any signed waiver documents associated with the shipment.

16. Any identification or registration number assigned to the shipment.

17. A statement that the bill of lading incorporates by reference all the services included on the estimate, including any new estimate prepared by the mover.

The bill of lading must be signed and dated by you and your mover at origin and destination.

At the time of payment of transportation charges, your mover must give you an invoice identifying the service provided and the charge for each service. It is customary for most movers to use a copy of the bill of lading as the invoice.

Except in those instances where a shipment is moving on a binding estimate, the invoice must specifically identify each service performed, the rate or charge per service performed, and the total charges for each service. If this information is not on the invoice, do not accept or pay the invoice.

Your mover must deliver your shipment upon payment of 100 percent of a binding estimate or 110 percent of a non-binding estimate, plus the full cost of any additional services that you required after the contract was executed and any charges for impracticable operation, not to exceed 15 percent of all other charges due at delivery. If you do not pay the transportation charges due at the time of delivery, your mover has the right, under the bill of lading, to refuse to deliver your shipment. The mover may place your shipment in storage, at your expense, until the charges are paid.

On shipments paid in advance, your mover must present its invoice for all transportation charges within 15 days of the date your mover delivered the shipment. This period excludes Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.

On shipments paid upon delivery, your mover must present its invoice for all transportation charges on the date of delivery, or, at its discretion, within 15 days calculated from the date the shipment was delivered at your destination. This period excludes Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays. Bills for additional charges based on the weight of the shipment will be presented after 30 days from delivery; charges for impracticable operations not paid at delivery are due within 30 days of the invoice.

Your mover's invoice and accompanying written notices must state the following five items:

Your mover must obtain weight tickets if your shipment is moving under a non- binding estimate. Each time your shipment is weighed, a separate weight ticket must be obtained and signed by the weigh master. If both weighings are performed on the same scale, one weight ticket may be used to record both weighings. The weight tickets must be presented with the invoice. Each weight ticket must contain the following six items:

1. The complete name and location of the scale.

2. The date of each weighing.

3. The identification of the weight entries as being the tare, gross, or net weights.

4. The company or mover identification of the vehicle.

5. The last name of the individual shipper as it appears on the bill of lading.

6. The mover's shipment registration or bill of lading number.

Additional information regarding weighing shipments is located later in this booklet.

Your mover must issue you an honest and truthful invoice for each shipment transported. When your shipment is delivered, you will be expected to pay either: (1) 100 percent of the charges on your binding estimate, or (2) 110 percent of the charges on your non-binding estimate. You will also be requested to pay the charges for any services that you requested (for example, waiting time, an extra pickup or delivery, storage) after the contract with your mover was executed that were not included in the estimate, and any charges for services performed in conjunction with impracticable operations, not to exceed 15 percent of all other charges due at delivery. Your mover will bill you after your shipment is delivered for any remaining services.

You should verify in advance what method of payment your mover will accept. Your mover must note in writing on the bill of lading the forms of payment it accepts at delivery. Do not assume your mover will accept payment by credit card unless it is clearly indicated on the bill of lading.

If you do not pay the charges due at the time of delivery, the mover has the right to refuse to deliver your shipment and to place it into storage at your expense until the charges are paid. It is standard procedure for you to pay the charges due at delivery prior to the mover unloading the shipment at destination, in accordance with the terms specified on the bill of lading.

If your shipment is transported by two or more trucks, the mover may require payment for each portion as it is delivered. You mover may delay the collection of all the charges until the entire shipment is delivered, at its discretion. When you confirm your shipment transportation with your mover, you should ask the mover about this policy.

Your mover can only collect the charges on the percentage of the shipment that was successfully delivered. For example, if you receive a binding estimate of $1,000 to move 1,000 pounds of your goods, and 50 percent of that shipment is lost, then the mover can only collect 50 percent of the estimate or $500. If the estimate is non-binding then only 50 percent of the actual charges, not to exceed 110 percent of the estimate, can be collected, which would be $550.

Your mover is forbidden from collecting, or requiring you to pay, any freight charges (including any charges for accessorial or terminal services) when your shipment is totally lost or destroyed in transit, unless the loss or destruction was due to an act or omission by you. However, if you receive Full Value Protection on your shipment, you will be required to pay the premium to process your claim for the total loss.

Before you move, be sure to reach an agreement with your mover on the dates for pickup and delivery of your shipment. It is your responsibility to determine on what date your shipment will be picked up and the date or timeframe you require delivery. Once an agreement is reached, your mover must enter those dates on the bill of lading. Upon loading your shipment, your mover is contractually bound to provide the service described in the bill of lading.

The mover might use the term "delivery spread" as the timeframe in which you can expect your shipment to be delivered. This means that your shipment could arrive anytime during the delivery spread. The mover is required to give you a 24-hour advance notice of when they plan to arrive with your shipment. At that time, you must be available to accept delivery or your shipment could be placed in storage at your expense.

When you and the mover agree to a delivery date, or to a range of dates, it is your responsibility to be available to accept delivery on any of those dates. The same applies when you and the mover agree to alternate delivery dates.

Do not agree to have your shipment picked up or delivered "as soon as possible." The dates or periods you and your mover agree upon should be definite.

If you request the mover to change the dates for your shipment, most movers will agree to do so if the change will not result in unreasonable delay to their equipment or interfere with another customer's move. However, the mover is not required to change the dates and can place your shipment in storage at your expense if you are unwilling or unable to accept delivery on the agreed dates.

The only reason your mover would be excused from providing a service as described in the bill of lading is because of "force majeure." This is a legal term which means an unforeseen change of circumstances beyond the control of the mover. For example, if there were a major snow storm that prevented your mover from servicing your shipment as outlined in the bill of lading, your mover would not be responsible for damages resulting from its nonperformance.

If your mover fails to pick up or deliver your shipment on the agreed date or during the delivery spread, and you have expenses that you otherwise would not have, you may be able to recover these expenses from the mover through a delay of shipment claim.

Ask your mover before you move what payment or other arrangements you can expect if your shipment is delayed through the fault of the mover.

Your mover must transport your household goods in a timely manner. This is also known as "reasonable dispatch service." If you have arranged for a guaranteed delivery date, the terms of that agreement with your mover apply.

When your mover is unable to meet either the pickup or delivery dates or provide service during the periods of time specified in the bill of lading, your mover must notify you of the delay. The mover must advise you of the dates or periods of time it may be able to pick up and/or deliver your shipment. Your mover must provide this information in writing.

If you are unable to accept delivery before the first day of the delivery spread, then your mover may place your shipment in storage in a warehouse located in proximity to the destination. If your mover exercises this option, your mover must immediately notify you of the name and address of the warehouse where your mover places your shipment. Your mover has full responsibility for the charges for re-delivery, handling, and storage until it makes the final delivery.

You may request your mover to store your household goods before delivering them. Your mover must notify you in writing or in person at least 10 days before the expiration date of:

1. The specified period of time when your mover is to hold your shipment in storage.

2. The maximum period of time provided in its tariff for storage-in-transit.

If your mover holds your household goods in storage-in-transit for less than 10 days, your mover must notify you, 1 day before the storage-in-transit period expires of the same information specified above.

When the storage period is about to expire, your mover must notify you in writing about the following four items:

1. The date when storage-in-transit will covert to permanent storage.

2. The existence of a 9-month period after the date of conversion to permanent storage, during which you may file claims against your mover for loss or damage occurring to your goods while in transit or during the storage-in-transit period.

3. When your mover's liability will end for loss and damage.

4. When your shipment will become subject to the rules, regulations, and charges of the management of the storage facility.

If your mover transports your household goods on a non-binding estimate, your mover must determine the actual weight of your shipment on a certified scale in order to calculate its lawful tariff charge. If your mover provided a binding estimate, the weight of the shipment will not affect the charges you will pay, so there is no requirement to weigh shipments moving under binding estimates.

Most movers have a minimum weight charge for transporting a shipment. If your shipment appears to weigh less than the mover's minimum weight, your mover must state the minimum cost on the bill of lading. Should your mover fail to advise you of the minimum charges and your shipment is less than the minimum weight, your mover must base your final charges upon the actual weight, not upon the minimum weight.

Usually, your shipment will be weighed in the city or local area where the shipment originates. The driver has the truck weighed before coming to your residence and then has it weighed again after your shipment has been loaded. The difference in these two weights is the weight of your shipment.

The mover may also weigh your shipment at its destination when the shipment is delivered. The driver will have the truck weighed with your shipment on board and then weighed a second time after your shipment has been unloaded. Each time a weighing is performed, the driver is required to obtain an official weight ticket signed by the weigh master of a certified scale and a copy of the weight tickets must accompany your copy of the bill of lading. Shipments of less than 3,000 pounds may be weighed on a certified warehouse scale.

You have the right, and your mover must inform you of your right, to observe all weighing of your shipment. Your mover must tell you where and when each weighing will occur. Your mover must give you a reasonable opportunity to be present to observe the weighing. You may waive your right to observe weighing; however, you must waive that right in writing.

If your shipment is weighed at origin and you believe that the weight may not be accurate, you have the right to request that the shipment be reweighed before it is unloaded. The mover is not permitted to charge you for the reweighing, but the final charges due will be based on the reweigh weight, even if it is more than the initial weight.

If you request notification of the actual weight and charges of your shipment, your mover must comply with your request if it is moving your household goods on a collect-on-delivery basis. This requirement is conditioned upon you supplying your mover with contact information.

You must receive the mover's notification at least 24-hours before the scheduled delivery, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.

Your mover may disregard this 24-hour notification requirement on shipments subject to one of the following three situations:

1. When your mover weighs your shipment at destination.

2. When pickup and delivery encompasses two consecutive weekdays, if you agree.

3. When the maximum payment at time of delivery is 110 percent of the estimated charges, if you agree.

The FMCSA maintains regulations to govern the processing of loss and damage claims; however, we cannot resolve these claims on your behalf. If you cannot reach a settlement with your mover, you have the right to request arbitration from your mover. All movers are required to participate in an arbitration program, and your mover is required to provide you with a summary of its arbitration program before you sign the bill of lading.

Arbitration gives you the opportunity to resolve loss or damage claims and certain types of disputed charges through a neutral arbitrator. You may find submitting your claim to arbitration is a less expensive and more convenient way to seek recovery of your claim than filing a lawsuit. You are not required to submit to arbitration in the event of a dispute. However, if you request arbitration for a claim for $10,000 or less, the mover must agree to arbitration and the arbitrator's decision is binding on the parties. Further, the mover is not required to agree to arbitration if the claim exceeds $10,000. If the mover does agree, the arbitrator's decision will be binding on both you and the mover.

You may choose to pursue a civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction in lieu of arbitration. Legal action may be initiated by filing a claim in your State and serving papers on the mover's process agent in your State. You may file in State court or (if the amount of the claim is more than $10,000) in Federal court. You may obtain the mover's process agent information in your State by contacting FMCSA at (800) 832-5660. You may also obtain the name of the mover's process agent via the internet by following the instructions below.
