
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 376 - LEASE AND INTERCHANGE OF VEHICLES
###### Subpart D - Interchange Regulations
####### ยง 376.31 Interchange of equipment.
######## Identification of equipment.

(d)The authorized for-hire motor carrier receiving the equipment shall identify equipment operated by it in interchange service as follows:

(1) The authorized for-hire motor carrier shall identify power units in accordance with FMCSA's requirements in 49 CFR part 390 (Identification of Vehicles). Before giving up possession of the equipment, the carrier shall remove all identification showing it as the operating carrier.

(2) Unless a copy of the interchange agreement is carried on the equipment, the authorized for-hire motor carrier shall carry a statement with each vehicle during interchange service certifying that it is operating the equipment. The statement shall also identify the equipment by company or State registration number and shall show the specific point of interchange, the date and time it assumes responsibility for the equipment, and the use to be made of the equipment. This statement shall be signed by the parties to the interchange agreement or their authorized representatives. The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply where the equipment to be operated in interchange service consists only of trailers or semitrailers.

(3) Authorized carriers under common ownership and control may interchange equipment with each other without complying with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section pertaining to removal of identification from equipment.
