
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 377 - PAYMENT OF TRANSPORTATION CHARGES
###### Subpart B - Extension of Credit to Shippers by For-Hire, Non-Exempt Motor Carriers and Household Goods Freight Forwarders
####### ยง 377.203 Extension of credit to shippers.
######## Service charges.,standard credit period,

(e)(1) Service charges shall not apply when credit is extended and payments are made within the standard credit period. The termas used in the preceding sentence, means-

(i) The credit period prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section, or

(ii) A substitute credit period published in a tariff rule pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) Carriers may, by tariff rule, extend credit for an additional time period, subject if they wish to a service charge for that additional time. The combined length of the carrier's standard credit period (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) and its additional credit period shall not exceed the 30-day maximum credit period prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section. When such a tariff rule is in effect, shippers may elect to postpone payment until the end of the extended credit period if, in consideration therefor, they include any published service charges when making their payment.

(3) Carriers may, by tariff rule, establish service charges for payments made after the expiration of an authorized credit period. Such a rule shall-

(i) Institute such charges on the day following the last day of an authorized credit period, and

(ii) Notify shippers-

(A) That its only purpose is to prevent a shipper who does not pay on time from having free use of funds due to the carrier,

(B) That it does not sanction payment delays, and

(C) That failure to pay within the authorized credit period will, despite this provision for such charges, continue to require the carrier, before again extending credit, to determine in good faith whether the shipper will comply with the credit regulations in the future.

(4) Tariff rules that establish charges pursuant to paragraph (e) (2) or (3) of this section may establish minimum charges.
