
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 380 - SPECIAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart G - Registry of Entry-Level Driver Training Providers On and After February 7, 2022
####### ยง 380.719 Requirements for continued listing on the training provider registry (TPR).

(a) To be eligible for continued listing on the TPR, a provider must:

(1) Meet the requirements of this subpart and the applicable requirements of ยง 380.703.

(2) Biennially update the Entry-Level Driver Training Provider Registration Form.

(3) Report to FMCSA changes to key information, as identified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, within 30 days of the change.

(i) Key information is defined as training provider name, address, phone number, type(s) of training offered, training provider status, and, if applicable, any change in State licensure, certification, or accreditation status.

(ii) Changes must be reported by electronically transmitting an updated Entry-Level Driver Training Provider Registration Form.

(4) Maintain documentation of State licensure, registration, or certification verifying that the provider is authorized to provide training in that State, if applicable.

(5) Allow an audit or investigation of the training provider to be completed by FMCSA or its authorized representative, if requested.

(6) Ensure that all required documentation, as set forth in ยง 380.725, is available to FMCSA or its authorized representative, upon request. The provider must submit this documentation within 48 hours of the request.

(b) [Reserved]
