
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 380 - SPECIAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart G - Registry of Entry-Level Driver Training Providers On and After February 7, 2022
####### ยง 380.723 Removal from training provider registry: procedure.
######## Opposing a notice of proposed removal.

(1)If the provider believes FMCSA has relied on erroneous information in proposing removal from the TPR, the provider must explain the basis for that belief and provide supporting documentation. FMCSA will review the explanation.

(i) If FMCSA finds that FMCSA has relied on erroneous information to propose removal of a training provider from the TPR, FMCSA will withdraw the notice of proposed removal and notify the provider of the withdrawal in writing.

(ii) If FMCSA finds that FMCSA has not relied on erroneous information in proposing removal, FMCSA will affirm the notice of proposed removal and notify the provider in writing of the determination. No later than 60 days after the date FMCSA affirms the notice of proposed removal, or as otherwise agreed to by the provider and FMCSA, the provider must comply with this subpart and correct the deficiencies identified in the notice of proposed removal as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(iii) If the provider does not respond in writing within 30 days of the date of issuance of a notice of proposed removal, the removal becomes effective immediately and the provider will be removed from the TPR. Any training conducted after the removal date is invalid.
