
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 381 - WAIVERS, EXEMPTIONS, AND PILOT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - Procedures for Applying for Exemptions
####### ยง 381.315 What will the FMCSA do after the agency receives my application for an exemption?

(a) The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration will review your application and prepare, for the Administrator's signature, anotice requesting public comment on your application for an exemption. The notice will give the public an opportunity to review your request and your safety assessment or analysis (required by ยง 381.310) and any other relevant information known to the agency.

(b) After a review of the comments received in response to thenotice described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration will make a recommendation(s) to the Administrator to either to grant or deny the exemption. Notice of the Administrator's decision will be published in the

(c)(1) If the exemption is granted, the notice will identify the provisions of the FMCSRs from which you will be exempt, the effective period, and all terms and conditions of the exemption.

(2) If the exemption is denied, the notice will explain the reason for the denial.

(d) A copy of your application for an exemption and all comments received in response to thenotice will be included in a public docket and be available for review by interested parties.

(1) Interested parties may view the information contained in the docket by visiting the Department of Transportation, Docket Management Facility, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. All information in the exemption docket will be available for examination at this address from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., e.t., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays.
