
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 382 - CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND ALCOHOL USE AND TESTING
###### Subpart D - Handling of Test Results, Records Retention, and Confidentiality
####### ยง 382.403 Reporting of results in a management information system.
######## e.g.,,http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/safetyprogs/drugs/engtesting.htm.

(b) If an employer is notified, during the month of January, of a request by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to report the employer's annual calendar year summary information, the employer shall prepare and submit the report to the FMCSA by March 15 of that year. The employer shall ensure that the annual summary report is accurate and received by March 15 at the location that the FMCSA specifies in its request. The employer must use the Management Information System (MIS) form and instructions as required by 49 CFR part 40 (at ยง 40.26 and appendix H to part 40). The employer may also use the electronic version of the MIS form provided by the DOT. The Administrator may designate means (electronic program transmitted via the Internet), other than hard-copy, for MIS form submission. For information on the electronic version of the form, see:

(c) When the report is submitted to the FMCSA by mail or electronic transmission, the information requested shall be typed, except for the signature of the certifying official. Each employer shall ensure the accuracy and timeliness of each report submitted by the employer or a consortium.
