
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 29 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Program Operations
##### Procurement
###### ยง 29.515 What are the minimum procurement standards that a Tribe must follow when procuring property or services with funds included in a funding agreement?
####### Minimum procurement standards.

(a)(1) A Tribe must ensure that its vendors and contractors perform in accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications of their contracts or purchase agreements or orders.

(2) A Tribe must maintain written standards of conduct governing the performance of its employees who award and administer contracts paid for using funds included in a funding agreement.

(i) An employee, officer, elected official, or agent of a Tribe must not participate in the selection, award, or administration of a procurement supported by Federal funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, as defined in the conflict of interest policies of the Tribe, would be involved.

(ii) Employees, officers, elected officials, or agents of a Tribe, or of a subcontractor of the Tribe, must not solicit or accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors, potential contractors, or parties to sub-agreements, except that the Tribe may exempt a financial interest that is not substantial or a gift that is an unsolicited item of nominal value.

(iii) The standards must also provide for penalties, sanctions, or other disciplinary actions for violations of the procurement standards.

(3) A Tribe must review proposed procurements to avoid buying unnecessary or duplicative items and ensure the reasonableness of the price. The Tribe should consider consolidating or separating out procurement to obtain more economical purchases. Tribes are encouraged to realize economies of scale in the procurement of goods, services, and supplies under this part, including the negotiation of cooperative agreements with other public authorities. Where appropriate, the Tribe must compare leasing and purchasing alternatives to determine which is more economical.

(4) A Tribe must conduct all major procurement transactions that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold set forth in 2 CFR 200.88 by providing full and open competition to the extent necessary to assure efficient expenditure of contract funds and to the extent feasible in the local area.

(i) Consistent with 2 CFR 200.88, a Tribe may develop its own definition for a simplified acquisition threshold.

(ii) To the greatest extent feasible, a Tribe must apply to any procurement award the Indian preference requirements for wages and grants contained in 25 U.S.C. 5307(b).

(5) A Tribe must make procurement awards only to responsible entities with the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed procurement. In making this judgment, the Tribe will consider such matters as the contractor's integrity, its compliance with public policy, its record of past performance, and its financial and technical resources.

(6) A Tribe must maintain records on the significant history of all major procurement transactions. These records must include, but are not limited to, the rationale for the method of procurement, the selection of contract type, the contract selection or rejection, and the basis for the contract price.

(7) A Tribe is solely responsible, using good administrative practice and sound business judgment, for processing and settling all contractual and administrative issues arising out of a procurement. These issues include, but are not limited to, source evaluation, protests, disputes, and claims.

(i) The settlement of any protest, dispute, or claim will not relieve the Tribe of any obligations under a funding agreement.

(ii) Violations of law must be referred to the Tribal or Federal authority having proper jurisdiction.
