
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 29 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Program Operations
##### Property
###### ยง 29.520 How may a Tribe acquire surplus or excess Federal property for use under the Program?

A Tribe may acquire any surplus or excess property for use in the performance of the compact and funding agreement consistent with the procedures established by the General Services Administration. The Tribe must notify the Self-Governance Official of the surplus or excess property it proposes to acquire and the purpose for which it will be used in the performance of the compact or funding agreement. If the Department participates in the acquisition by the Tribe of any excess or surplus Federal property, the Department will expeditiously process the request and assist the Tribe in its acquisition to the extent feasible and exercise discretion in a way that gives maximum effect to the Tribe's request for donation of the excess or surplus Federal property. When the Department's participation is required, the Department should expeditiously request acquisition of the property from the General Services Administration or the holding agency, as appropriate, by submitting the necessary documentation prior to the expiration of any "freeze" placed on the property by the Tribe or the Department on the Tribe's behalf. The Tribe must take title to any property acquired pursuant to this section. Such surplus or excess property will be eligible for replacement, maintenance, and improvement using funds included in a funding agreement, or the Tribe may expend its own funds. The Department does not have any additional funding sources for replacement, maintenance, or improvement of such surplus or excess property.
