
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 383 - COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE STANDARDS; REQUIREMENTS AND PENALTIES
###### Subpart E - Testing and Licensing Procedures
####### ยง 383.71 Driver application and certification procedures.
######## Commercial Learner's Permit.

(a)Prior to obtaining a CLP, a person must meet the following requirements:

(1) The person must be 18 years of age or older and provide proof of his/her age.

(2) The person must have taken and passed a general knowledge test that meets the Federal standards contained in subparts F, G, and H of this part for the commercial motor vehicle group that person operates or expects to operate.

(3) The person must certify that he/she is not subject to any disqualification under ยง 383.51, or any license disqualification under State law, and that he/she does not have a driver's license from more than one State or jurisdiction.

(4) The person must provide to the State of issuance the information required to be included on the CLP as specified in subpart J of this part.

(5) The person must provide to the State proof of citizenship or lawful permanent residency as specified in Table 1 of this section or obtain a Non-domiciled CLP as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(6) The person must provide proof that the State to which application is made is his/her State of domicile, as the term is defined in ยง 383.5. Acceptable proof of domicile is a document with the person's name and residential address within the State, such as a government issued tax form.

(7) The person must provide the names of all States where the applicant has been licensed to drive any type of motor vehicle during the previous 10 years.

(8) A person seeking a passenger (P), school bus (S) or tank vehicle (N) endorsement must have taken and passed the endorsement knowledge test for the specific endorsement.

(9) The person must provide the State the certification contained in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(10) Beginning on February 7, 2022, a person must complete the training prescribed in subpart F of part 380 of this chapter before taking the skills test for a Class A or B CDL for the first time, or a skills test for a passenger (P) or school bus (S) endorsement for the first time, or the knowledge test for a hazardous materials (H) endorsement for the first time. The training must be administered by a provider listed on the Training Provider Registry.
