
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 29 - TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM
#### Subpart F - Program Operations
##### Environmental and Cultural Resource Compliance
###### ยง 29.527 What compliance with environmental and cultural resource statutes is required?

(a) The Department must meet the requirements of applicable Federal environmental and cultural resource laws, such as the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the National Historic Preservation Act, for a proposed project under the Program.

(b) The Secretary has delegated environmental and cultural resource compliance responsibilities to the Operating Administrations, as appropriate. As such, an Operating Administration will serve as the lead agency responsible for final review and approval of environmental documents, and any associated environmental determinations and findings for a proposed project under the Program. The Secretary, as delegated to the Operating Administrations, is also responsible for making determinations and issuing approvals in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 138 and 49 U.S.C. 303 (Section 4(f)), as applicable. Tribes may consult with the Self-Governance Official to determine which Operating Administration should serve as the lead agency.

(c) If the Department is conducting the environmental review process for a proposed project under the Program, the Tribe must assist the Department to satisfy the requirements of applicable Federal environmental and cultural resource laws.

(d) A Tribe may manage or conduct the environmental review process for a proposed project under the Program and may prepare drafts of the appropriate environmental review documents for submission to the Department.

(1) A Tribe may follow its own environmental review procedures if the procedures and documentation also satisfy the Federal environmental review requirements applicable to the project. A Tribe should work with the Operating Administration serving as lead agency to ensure the Tribal process will satisfy all applicable Federal environmental review requirements.

(2) The Operating Administration serving as lead agency must determine that the Tribe's process and documentation satisfy the applicable Federal environmental review requirements.

(e) As resources permit and at the request of a Tribe, the Department will provide advice and technical assistance to the Tribe to assist in the management of the Federal environmental review process and preparation of environmental documents.

(f) Unless prohibited by law, a Tribe may use funds included in a funding agreement to pay for environmental review activities.
