
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 383 - COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE STANDARDS; REQUIREMENTS AND PENALTIES
###### Subpart E - Testing and Licensing Procedures
####### ยง 383.73 State procedures.
######## Computer system controls.

(n)The State must establish computer system controls that will:

(1) Prevent the issuance of an initial, renewed or upgraded CLP or an initial, renewed, upgraded, or transferred CDL when the results of transactions indicate the applicant is unqualified. These controls, at a minimum, must be established for the following transactions: State, CDLIS, and PDPS driver record checks; and Social Security Number verification. Knowledge and skills test scores verification controls must be established for an initial, renewed, or upgraded CDL.

(2) Suspend the issuance process whenever State, CDLIS, and/or PDPS driver record checks return suspect results. The State must demonstrate that it has a system to detect and prevent fraud when a driver record check returns suspect results. At a minimum, the system must ensure that:

(i) The results are not connected to a violation of any State or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control (other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle defect violations);

(ii) The name of the persons performing the record check and authorizing the issuance, and the justification for the authorization are documented by the State; and

(iii) The person performing the record check and the person authorizing the issuance are not the same.
