
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 383 - COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE STANDARDS; REQUIREMENTS AND PENALTIES
###### Subpart J - Commercial Learner's Permit and Commercial Driver's License Documents
####### ยง 383.153 Information on the CLP and CDL documents and applications.
######## Commercial Learner's Permit.

(b)(1) A CLP may, but is not required to, contain a digital color image or photograph or black and white laser engraved photograph.

(2) All CLPs must contain all of the following information:

(i) The prominent statement that the permit is a "Commercial Learner's Permit" or "CLP," except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and that it is invalid unless accompanied by the underlying driver's license issued by the same jurisdiction.

(ii) The full name, signature, and mailing or residential address in the permitting State of the person to whom the permit is issued.

(iii) Physical and other information to identify and describe such person including date of birth (month, day, and year), sex, and height.

(iv) The driver's State license number.

(v) The name of the State which issued the permit.

(vi) The date of issuance and the date of expiration of the permit.

(vii) The group or groups of commercial motor vehicle(s) that the driver is authorized to operate, indicated as follows:

(A) A for Combination Vehicle;

(B) B for Heavy Straight Vehicle; and

(C) C for Small Vehicle.

(viii) The endorsement(s) for which the driver has qualified, if any, indicated as follows:
