
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 383 - COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE STANDARDS; REQUIREMENTS AND PENALTIES
###### Subpart J - Commercial Learner's Permit and Commercial Driver's License Documents
####### ยง 383.153 Information on the CLP and CDL documents and applications.
######## N for tank vehicle endorsement.

(C)A CLP holder with an N endorsement may only operate an empty tank vehicle and is prohibited from operating any tank vehicle that previously contained hazardous materials that has not been purged of any residue.

(ix) The restriction(s) placed on the driver, if any, indicated as follows:

(A) P for No passengers in CMV bus;

(B) X for No cargo in CMV tank vehicle;

(C) L for No Air brake equipped CMV;

(D) V for medical variance;

(E) M for No Class A passenger vehicle;

(F) N for No Class A and B passenger vehicle;

(G) K for Intrastate only.

(H) Any additional jurisdictional restrictions that apply to the CLP driving privilege.

(c) If the CLP or CDL is a Non-domiciled CLP or CDL, it must contain the prominent statement that the license or permit is a "Non-domiciled Commercial Driver's License," "Non-domiciled CDL," "Non-domiciled Commercial Learner's Permit," or "Non-domiciled CLP," as appropriate. The word "Non-domiciled" must be conspicuously and unmistakably displayed, but may be noncontiguous with the words "Commercial Driver's License," "CDL," "Commercial Learner's Permit," or "CLP."

(d) If the State has issued the applicant an air brake restriction as specified in ยง 383.95, that restriction must be indicated on the CLP or CDL.

(e) Except in the case of a Non-domiciled CLP or CDL holder who is domiciled in a foreign jurisdiction:

(1) A driver applicant must provide his/her Social Security Number on the application of a CLP or CDL.

(2) The State must provide the Social Security Number to the CDLIS.

(3) The State must not display the Social Security Number on the CLP or CDL.

(f) The State may issue a multipart CDL provided that:

(1) Each document is explicitly tied to the other document(s) and to a single driver's record.

(2) The multipart license document includes all of the data elements specified in this section.

(g) Current CDL holders are not required to be retested to determine whether they need any of the new restrictions for no full air brakes, no manual transmission and no tractor-trailer. These new restrictions only apply to CDL applicants who take skills tests on or after July 8, 2015 (including those applicants who previously held a CDL before the new restrictions went into effect).

(h) On or after July 8, 2015 current CLP and CDL holders who do not have the standardized endorsement and restriction codes and applicants for a CLP or CDL are to be issued CLPs with the standardized codes upon initial issuance, renewal or upgrade and CDLs with the standardized codes upon initial issuance, renewal, upgrade or transfer.
