
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 384 - STATE COMPLIANCE WITH COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 384.107 Matter incorporated by reference.
######## Incorporation by reference.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)This part includes references to certain matter or materials. The text of the materials is not included in the regulations contained in this part. The materials are hereby made a part of the regulations in this part. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register has approved the materials incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. For materials subject to change, only the specific version approved by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register and specified in the regulation are incorporated. Material is incorporated as it exists on the date of the approval and a notice of any change in these materials will be published in theAll of the materials incorporated by reference are available from the sources listed below and available for inspection at the Department of Transportation Library, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001; telephone is (202) 366-0746. These documents are also available for inspection and copying as provided in 49 CFR part 7. They are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
