
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 384 - STATE COMPLIANCE WITH COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Minimum Standards for Substantial Compliance by States
####### ยง 384.225 CDLIS driver recordkeeping.
######## A person required to have a CLP or CDL.

(b)Record and maintain as part of the CDLIS driver record all convictions, disqualifications and other licensing actions for violations of any State or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control (other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle defect violations) committed while the driver was operating a CMV.

(c) Make CDLIS driver record information required by this section available to the users designated in paragraph (e) of this section, or to their authorized agent, within 10 days of:

(1) Receiving the conviction or disqualification information from another State; or

(2) The date of the conviction, if it occurred in the same State.

(d) Retain on the CDLIS driver record record all convictions, disqualifications and other licensing actions for violations for at least 3 years or longer as required under ยง 384.231(d).

(e) Only allow the following users or their authorized agents to receive the designated information:

(1) States-All information on all CDLIS driver records.

(2) Secretary of Transportation-All information on all CDLIS driver records.

(3) Driver-All information on that driver's CDLIS driver record obtained on the CDLIS Motor Vehicle Record from the State according to its procedures.

(4) Motor Carrier or Prospective Motor Carrier-After notification to a driver, all information on that driver's, or prospective driver's, CDLIS driver record obtained on the CDLIS Motor Vehicle Record from the State according to its procedures.

(f) Ensure the content of the report provided a user authorized by paragraph (e) of this section from the CDLIS driver record is comparable to the report that would be generated by a CDLIS State-to-State request for a CDLIS driver history, as defined in the "CDLIS State Procedures Manual" (incorporated by reference, see ยง 384.107(b)), and must include the medical certification status information of the driver in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. This does not preclude authorized users from requesting a CDLIS driver status.
