
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 384 - STATE COMPLIANCE WITH COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Minimum Standards for Substantial Compliance by States
####### ยง 384.228 Examiner training and record checks.

For all State and third party CDL test examiners, the State must meet the following 10 requirements:

(a) Establish examiner training standards for initial and refresher training that provides CDL test examiners with a fundamental understanding of the objectives of the CDL testing program, and with all of the knowledge and skills necessary to serve as a CDL test examiner and assist jurisdictions in meeting the Federal CDL testing requirements.

(b) Require all State knowledge and skills test examiners to successfully complete a formal CDL test examiner training course and examination before certifying them to administer CDL knowledge and skills tests.

(c) The training course for CDL knowledge test examiners must cover at least the following three units of instruction:

(1) Introduction to CDL Licensing System:

(i) The Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986.

(ii) Drivers covered by CDL program.

(iii) CDL vehicle classification.

(iv) CDL endorsements and restrictions.

(2) Overview of the CDL tests:

(i) CDL test, classifications, and endorsements.

(ii) Different examinations.

(iii) Representative vehicles.

(iv) Validity and reliability.

(v) Test maintenance.

(3) Knowledge tests:

(i) General knowledge tests.

(ii) Specialized knowledge tests.

(iii) Selecting the appropriate tests and test forms.

(iv) Knowledge test administration.

(d) The training course for CDL skills test examiners must cover at least the following five units of instruction:

(1) Introduction to CDL Licensing System:

(i) The Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986.

(ii) Drivers covered by CDL program.

(iii) CDL vehicle classification.

(iv) CDL endorsements and restrictions.

(2) Overview of the CDL tests:

(i) CDL test, classifications, and endorsements.

(ii) Different examinations.

(iii) Representative vehicles.

(iv) Validity and reliability.

(v) Test maintenance.

(3) Vehicle inspection test:

(i) Test overview.

(ii) Description of safety rules.

(iii) Test scoring procedures.

(iv) Scoring standards.

(v) Calculating final score.

(4) Basic control skills testing:

(i) Setting up the basic control skills course.

(ii) Description of safety rules.

(iii) General scoring procedures.

(iv) Administering the test.

(v) Calculating the score.

(5) Road test:

(i) Setting up the road test.

(ii) Required maneuvers.

(iii) Administering the road test.

(iv) Calculating the score.

(e) Require all third party skills test examiners to successfully complete a formal CDL test examiner training course and examination before certifying them to administer CDL skills tests. The training course must cover at least the five units of instruction in paragraph (d) of this section.

(f) Require State and third party CDL test examiners to successfully complete a refresher training course and examination every four years to maintain their CDL test examiner certification. The refresher training course must cover at least the following:

(1) For CDL knowledge test examiners, the three units of training described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) For CDL skills test examiners, the five units of training described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) Any State specific material and information related to administering CDL knowledge and skills tests.

(4) Any new Federal CDL regulations, updates to administering the tests, and new safety related equipment on the vehicles.

(g) Complete nationwide criminal background check of all skills test examiners prior to certifying them to administer CDL skills tests.

(h)(1) Complete nationwide criminal background check of all State and third party test examiners at the time of hiring.

(2) Complete nationwide criminal background check of any State and third party current test examiner who has not had a nationwide criminal background check.

(3) Criteria for not passing the criminal background check must include at least the following:

(i) Any felony conviction within the last 10 years; or

(ii) Any conviction involving fraudulent activities.

(i) Maintain a record of the results of the criminal background check and CDL examiner test training and certification of all CDL test examiners.

(j) Rescind the certification to administer CDL tests of all test examiners who do not successfully complete the required refresher training every 4 years.

(k) The eight units of training described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section may be supplemented with State-specific material and information related to administering CDL knowledge and skills tests.
