
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 385 - SAFETY FITNESS PROCEDURES
###### Subpart D - New Entrant Safety Assurance Program
####### § 385.327 May a new entrant request an administrative review of a determination of a failed safety audit?

(a) If a new entrant receives a notice under § 385.319(c) that its new entrant registration will be revoked, it may request FMCSA to conduct an administrative review if it believes FMCSA has committed an error in determining that its basic safety management controls are inadequate. The request must:

(1) Be made to the Field Administrator of the appropriate FMCSA Service Center.

(2) Explain the error the new entrant believes FMCSA committed in its determination.

(3) Include a list of all factual and procedural issues in dispute and any information or documents that support the new entrant's argument.

(b) FMCSA may request that the new entrant submit additional data and attend a conference to discuss the issues(s) in dispute. If the new entrant does not attend the conference or does not submit the requested data, FMCSA may dismiss the new entrant's request for review.

(c) A new entrant must submit a request for an administrative review within one of the following time periods:

(1) If it does not submit evidence of corrective action under § 385.319(c), within 90 days after the date it is notified that its basic safety management controls are inadequate.

(2) If it submits evidence of corrective action under § 385.319(c), within 90 days after the date it is notified that its corrective action is insufficient and its basic safety management controls remain inadequate.

(d) If a new entrant wants to assure that FMCSA will be able to issue a final written decision before the prohibitions outlined in § 385.325(c) take effect, the new entrant must submit its request no later than 15 days from the date of the notice that its basic safety management controls are inadequate. Failure to submit the request within this 15-day period may result in revocation of new entrant registration and issuance of an out-of-service order before completion of administrative review.

(e) FMCSA will complete its review and notify the new entrant in writing of its decision within:

(1) 45 days after receiving a request for review from a new entrant that is subject to § 385.319(c)(1).

(2) 30 days after receiving a request for review from a new entrant that is subject to § 385.319(c)(2).

(f) The Field Administrator's decision constitutes the final Agency action.

(g) Notwithstanding this subpart, a new entrant is subject to the suspension and revocation provisions of 49 U.S.C. 13905 for violations of DOT regulations governing motor carrier operations.
