
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 385 - SAFETY FITNESS PROCEDURES
###### Subpart D - New Entrant Safety Assurance Program
####### ยง 385.329T May a new entrant that has had its USDOT new entrant registration revoked and its operations placed out of service reapply?

(a) A new entrant whose USDOT new entrant registration has been revoked, and whose operations have been placed out of service by FMCSA, may reapply for new entrant registration no sooner than 30 days after the date of revocation.

(b) If the USDOT new entrant registration was revoked because of a failed safety audit, the new entrant must do all of the following:

(1) Submit an updated MCS-150.

(2) Submit evidence that it has corrected the deficiencies that resulted in revocation of its registration and will otherwise ensure that it will have basic safety management controls in effect.

(3) Begin the 18-month new entrant monitoring cycle again as of the date the re-filed application is approved.

(c) If the USDOT new entrant registration was revoked because FMCSA found that the new entrant had failed to submit to a safety audit, it must do all of the following:

(1) Submit an updated MCS-150.

(2) Begin the 18-month new entrant monitoring cycle again as of the date the re-filed application is approved.

(3) Submit to a safety audit.

(d) If the new entrant is a for-hire carrier subject to the registration provisions under 49 U.S.C. 13901 and also has had its operating authority revoked, it must re-apply for operating authority as set forth in part 365 of this chapter.
