
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 385 - SAFETY FITNESS PROCEDURES
###### Subpart E - Hazardous Materials Safety Permits
####### ยง 385.409T When may a temporary safety permit be issued to a motor carrier?
######## Temporary safety permit.

(a)If a motor carrier does not meet the criteria in ยง 385.407(a), FMCSA may issue it a temporary safety permit. To obtain a temporary safety permit a motor carrier must certify on Form MCS-150B that it is operating in full compliance with the HMRs; with the FMCSRs, and/or comparable State regulations, whichever is applicable; and with the minimum financial responsibility requirements in part 387 of this chapter or in State regulations, whichever is applicable.

(b) FMCSA will not issue a temporary safety permit to a motor carrier that:

(1) Does not certify that it has a satisfactory security program as required in ยง 385.407(b);

(2) Has a crash rate in the top 30 percent of the national average as indicated in the FMCSA's Motor Carrier Management Information System (MCMIS); or

(3) Has a driver, vehicle, hazardous materials, or total out-of-service rate in the top 30 percent of the national average as indicated in the MCMIS.

(c) A temporary safety permit shall be valid for 180 days after the date of issuance or until the motor carrier is assigned a new safety rating, whichever occurs first.

(1) A motor carrier that receives a Satisfactory safety rating will be issued a safety permit (see ยง 385.421T).

(2) A motor carrier that receives a less than Satisfactory safety rating is ineligible for a safety permit and will be subject to revocation of its temporary safety permit.

(d) If a motor carrier has not received a safety rating within the 180-day time period, FMCSA will extend the effective date of the temporary safety permit for an additional 60 days, provided the motor carrier demonstrates that it is continuing to operate in full compliance with the FMCSRs and HMRs.
