
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 385 - SAFETY FITNESS PROCEDURES
###### Subpart I - Safety Monitoring System for Non-North American Carriers
####### ยง 385.705 Expedited action.

(a) A non-North America-domiciled motor carrier committing any of the following actions identified through roadside inspections, or by any other means, may be subjected to an expedited compliance review, or may be required to submit a written response demonstrating corrective action:

(1) Using a driver not possessing, or operating without, a valid CDL, Canadian Commercial Driver's License, or Mexican Licencia Federal de Conductor. An invalid commercial driver's license includes one that is falsified, revoked, expired, or missing a required endorsement.

(2) Operating a vehicle placed out of service for violations of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations without taking the necessary corrective action.

(3) Being involved in, through action or omission, a hazardous materials reportable incident, as described under 49 CFR 171.15 or 171.16, within the United States involving-

(i) A highway route controlled quantity of certain radioactive materials (Class 7).

(ii) Any quantity of certain explosives (Class 1, Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3).

(iii) Any quantity of certain poison inhalation hazard materials (Zone A or B).

(4) Being involved in, through action or omission, two or more hazardous materials reportable incidents, as described under 49 CFR 171.15 or 171.16, occurring within the United States and involving any hazardous material not listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(5) Using a driver who tests positive for controlled substances or alcohol or who refuses to submit to required controlled substances or alcohol tests.

(6) Operating within the United States a commercial motor vehicle without the levels of financial responsibility required under part 387 of this subchapter.

(7) Having a driver or vehicle out-of-service rate of 50 percent or more based upon at least three inspections occurring within a consecutive 90-day period.

(b) Failure to respond to an Agency demand for a written response demonstrating corrective action within 30 days will result in the suspension of the carrier's new entrant registration until the required showing of corrective action is submitted to the FMCSA.

(c) A satisfactory response to a written demand for corrective action does not excuse a carrier from the requirement that it undergo a compliance review during the new entrant registration period.
