
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 385 - SAFETY FITNESS PROCEDURES
###### Subpart I - Safety Monitoring System for Non-North American Carriers
####### ยง 385.713 Reapplying for new entrant registration.

(a) A non-North America-domiciled motor carrier whose provisional new entrant registration has been revoked may reapply for new entrant registration no sooner than 30 days after the date of revocation.

(b) If the provisional new entrant registration was revoked because the new entrant failed to receive a Satisfactory rating after undergoing a compliance review, the new entrant must do all of the following:

(1) Submit an updated Form MCSA-1, the URS online application;

(2) Submit evidence that it has corrected the deficiencies that resulted in revocation of its registration and will otherwise ensure that it will have basic safety management controls in effect.

(3) Successfully complete a pre-authorization safety audit in accordance with ยง 385.607(c) of this part.

(4) Begin the 18-month new entrant monitoring cycle again as of the date the re-filed application is approved.

(c) If the provisional new entrant registration was revoked because FMCSA found the new entrant failed to submit to a compliance review, the new entrant must do all of the following:

(1) Submit an updated Form MCSA-1, the URS online application;

(2) Successfully complete a pre-authorization safety audit in accordance with ยง 385.607(c) of this part.

(3) Begin the 18-month new entrant monitoring cycle again as of the date the re-filed application is approved.

(4) Submit to a compliance review upon request.

(d) If the new entrant is a for-hire carrier subject to the registration provisions under 49 U.S.C. 13901 and also has had its operating authority revoked, it must reapply for operating authority as set forth in ยง 390.201(b) and part 365 of this subchapter.
