
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 385 - SAFETY FITNESS PROCEDURES
###### Appendix B to Part 385 - Explanation of Safety Rating Process
####### unsatisfactory,unsatisfactory

(d) The recordable accident rate will be used to rate Factor 6, Accident. It will be used only when a motor carrier incurs two or more recordable accidents occurred within the 12 months prior to the CR. An urban carrier (a carrier operating entirely within a radius of 100 air miles) with a recordable accident rate greater than 1.7 will receive anrating for the accident factor. All other carriers with a recordable accident rate greater than 1.5 will receive anfactor rating. The rates are a result of roughly doubling the national average accident rate for each type of carrier rated in Fiscal Years 1994, 1995 and 1996.

(e) The FMCSA will continue to consider preventability when a motor carrier contests a rating by presenting compelling evidence that the recordable rate is not a fair means of evaluating its accident factor. Preventability will be determined according to the following standard: "If a driver, who exercises normal judgment and foresight could have foreseen the possibility of the accident that in fact occurred, and avoided it by taking steps within his/her control which would not have risked causing another kind of mishap, the accident was preventable."

(a) Parts of the FMCSRs and the HMRs having similar characteristics are combined together into five regulatory areas called "factors."

(b) The following table shows the five regulatory factors, parts of the FMCSRs and HMRs associated with each factor, and the accident factor. Factor Ratings are determined as follows:

(a) The ratings for the six factors are then entered into a rating table which establishes the motor carrier's safety rating.

(b) The FMCSA has developed a computerized rating formula for assessing the information obtained from the CR document and is using that formula in assigning a safety rating.

(a) The proposed safety rating will appear on the CR. The following appropriate information will appear after the last entry on the CR, MCS-151, part B.

"Your proposed safety rating is SATISFACTORY."

"Your proposed safety rating is CONDITIONAL." The proposed safety rating will become the final safety rating 45 days after you receive this notice.

"Your proposed safety rating is UNSATISFACTORY." The proposed safety rating will become the final safety rating 45 days after you receive this notice
