
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 386 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR FMCSA PROCEEDINGS
###### Subpart B - Commencement of Proceedings, Pleadings
####### ยง 386.11 Commencement of proceedings.
######## Notice of Violation.,i.e.

(b)The Agency may issue a Notice of Violation as a means of notifying any person subject to the rules in this part that it has received information (, from an investigation, audit, or any other source) wherein it has been alleged the person has violated provisions of the FMCSRs, HMRs, or FMCCRs. The Notice of Violation serves as an informal mechanism to address compliance deficiencies. If the alleged deficiency is not addressed to the satisfaction of the Agency, formal enforcement action may be taken in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. A Notice of Violation is not a prerequisite to the issuance of a Notice of Claim. The Notice of Violation will address the following issues, as appropriate:

(1) The specific alleged violations.

(2) Any specific actions the Agency determines are appropriate to remedy the identified problems.

(3) The means by which the notified person can inform the Agency that it has received the Notice of Violation and either has addressed the alleged violation or does not agree with the Agency's assertions in the Notice of Violation.

(4) Any other relevant information.
