
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 386 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR FMCSA PROCEEDINGS
###### Appendix A to Part 386 - Penalty Schedule: Violations of Notices and Orders
####### i.e.,

Violation-Failure to cease violations of the regulations in the time prescribed in the notice. (The time within which to comply with a notice to abate shall not begin to run with respect to contested violations,where there are material issues in dispute under ยง 386.14, until such time as the violation has been established.)

Penalty-Reinstatement of any deferred assessment or payment of a penalty or portion thereof.

Violation-Failure to respond to Agency subpoena to appear and testify or produce records.

Penalty-minimum of $1,288 but not more than $12,882 per violation.

Violation-Failure to comply with Final Agency Order.

Penalty-Automatic reinstatement of any penalty previously reduced or held in abeyance and restoration of the full amount assessed in the Notice of Claim less any payments previously made.

a. Violation-Operation of a commercial vehicle by a driver during the period the driver was placed out of service.

Penalty-Up to $2,232 per violation.

(For purposes of this violation, the term "driver" means an operator of a commercial motor vehicle, including an independent contractor who, while in the course of operating a commercial motor vehicle, is employed or used by another person.)

b. Violation-Requiring or permitting a driver to operate a commercial vehicle during the period the driver was placed out of service.

Penalty-Up to $22,324 per violation.

(This violation applies to motor carriers including an independent contractor who is not a "driver," as defined under paragraph IV(a) above.)

c. Violation-Operation of a commercial motor vehicle or intermodal equipment by a driver after the vehicle or intermodal equipment was placed out-of-service and before the required repairs are made.

Penalty-$2,232 each time the vehicle or intermodal equipment is so operated. (This violation applies to drivers as defined in IV(a) above.)

d. Violation-Requiring or permitting the operation of a commercial motor vehicle or intermodal equipment placed out-of-service before the required repairs are made.

Penalty-Up to $22,324 each time the vehicle or intermodal equipment is so operated after notice of the defect is received.

(This violation applies to intermodal equipment providers and motor carriers, including an independent owner operator who is not a "driver," as defined in IV(a) above.)

e. Violation-Failure to return written certification of correction as required by the out-of-service order.

Penalty-Up to $1,116 per violation.

f. Violation-Knowingly falsifies written certification of correction required by the out of service order.

Penalty-Considered the same as the violations described in paragraphs IV(c) and IV(d) of this appendix, and subject to the same penalties.
