
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Subpart D - National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners
####### Medical Examiner Certification Requirements
######## ยง 390.105 Medical examiner training programs.

An applicant for medical examiner certification must complete a training program that:

(a) Is conducted by a training provider that:

(1) Is accredited by a nationally recognized medical profession accrediting organization to provide continuing education units; and

(2) Meets the following administrative requirements:

(i) Provides training participants with proof of participation.

(ii) Provides FMCSA point of contact information to training participants.

(b) Provides training to medical examiners on the following topics:

(1) Background, rationale, mission, and goals of the FMCSA medical examiner's role in reducing crashes, injuries, and fatalities involving commercial motor vehicles.

(2) Familiarization with the responsibilities and work environment of commercial motor vehicle operation.

(3) Identification of the operator and obtaining, reviewing, and documenting operator medical history, including prescription and over-the-counter medications.

(4) Performing, reviewing, and documenting the operator's medical examination.

(5) Performing, obtaining, and documenting additional diagnostic tests or medical opinion from a medical specialist or treating physician.

(6) Informing and educating the operator about medications and non-disqualifying medical conditions that require remedial care.

(7) Determining operator certification outcome and period for which certification should be valid.

(8) FMCSA reporting and documentation requirements.

Guidance on the core curriculum specifications for use by training providers is available from FMCSA.
