
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Subpart D - National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners
####### Medical Examiner Certification Requirements
######## § 390.115 Procedure for removal from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners.
######### Decision on administrative review.

(2)FMCSA will complete the administrative review and notify the person in writing of the decision. The decision constitutes final Agency action. If FMCSA decides the removal was not valid, FMCSA will reinstate the person and reissue a certification credential to expire on the expiration date of the certificate that was invalidated under paragraph (g) of this section. The reinstated medical examiner must:

(i) Continue to meet the requirements of §§ 390.103 through 390.115 and the applicable requirements of part 391 of this chapter.

(ii) Report to FMCSA any changes in the registration information submitted under § 390.103(a)(2) within 30 days of the reinstatement.

(iii) Be licensed, certified, or registered in accordance with applicable State laws and regulations to perform physical examinations.

(iv) Maintain documentation of State licensure, registration, or certification to perform physical examinations for each State in which the examiner performs examinations and maintains documentation of completion of all training required by §§ 390.105 and 390.111 of this part. The medical examiner must also make this documentation available to an authorized representative of FMCSA or an authorized representative of Federal, State, or local government. The medical examiner must provide this documentation within 48 hours of the request for investigations and within 10 days of the request for regular audits of eligibility.

(v) Complete periodic training as required by FMCSA.
