
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Subpart D - National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners
####### Medical Examiner Certification Requirements
######## § 390.115 Procedure for removal from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners.
######### Reinstatement on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners.

(f)No sooner than 30 days after the date of removal from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners, a person who has been voluntarily or involuntarily removed may apply to FMCSA to be reinstated. The person must:

(1) Continue to meet the requirements of §§ 390.103 through 390.115 and the applicable requirements of part 391 of this chapter.

(2) Report to FMCSA any changes in the registration information submitted under § 390.103(a)(2).

(3) Be licensed, certified, or registered in accordance with applicable State laws and regulations to perform physical examinations.

(4) Maintain documentation of State licensure, registration, or certification to perform physical examinations for each State in which the person performs examinations and maintains documentation of completion of all training required by §§ 390.105 and 390.111. The medical examiner must also make this documentation available to an authorized representative of FMCSA or an authorized representative of Federal, State, or local government. The person must provide this documentation within 48 hours of the request for investigations and within 10 days of the request for regular audits of eligibility.

(5) Complete training and testing as required by FMCSA.

(6) In the case of a person who has been involuntarily removed, provide documentation showing completion of any corrective actions required in the notice of proposed removal.
