
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Subpart D - National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners
####### Medical Examiner Certification Requirements for Qualified Department of Veterans Affairs Examiners
######## § 390.135 Procedure for removal of a certified VA medical examiner from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners.
######### Compliance and corrective action.

(2)(i) The certified VA medical examiner must comply with §§ 390.123 through 390.135 and complete the corrective actions specified in the notice of proposed removal no later than 60 days after either the date of issuance of the notice of proposed removal or the date FMCSA affirms or modifies the notice of proposed removal, whichever is later. The certified VA medical examiner must provide documentation of compliance and completion of the corrective actions to FMCSA. FMCSA may conduct any investigations and request any documentation necessary to verify that the certified VA medical examiner has complied with §§ 390.123 through 390.135 and completed the required corrective action(s). FMCSA will notify the certified VA medical examiner in writing whether he or she has met the requirements to continue to be listed on the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners.

(ii) If the certified VA medical examiner fails to complete the proposed corrective action(s) within the 60-day period, the removal becomes effective and the certified VA medical examiner is immediately removed from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners. FMCSA will notify the person in writing that he or she has been removed from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners.

(3) At any time before a notice of proposed removal from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners becomes final, the recipient of the notice of proposed removal and FMCSA may resolve the matter by mutual agreement.
