
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Subpart D - National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners
####### Medical Examiner Certification Requirements for Qualified Department of Veterans Affairs Examiners
######## § 390.135 Procedure for removal of a certified VA medical examiner from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners.
######### Opposing a notice of proposed removal.

(1)If the certified VA medical examiner believes FMCSA has relied on an erroneous reason, in whole or in part, in proposing removal from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners, the certified VA medical examiner must explain the basis for his or her belief that FMCSA relied on an erroneous reason in proposing the removal. FMCSA will review the explanation.

(i) If FMCSA finds it has wholly relied on an erroneous reason for proposing removal from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners, FMCSA will withdraw the notice of proposed removal and notify the certified VA medical examiner in writing of the determination. If FMCSA finds it has partly relied on an erroneous reason for proposing removal from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners, FMCSA will modify the notice of proposed removal and notify the certified VA medical examiner in writing of the determination. No later than 60 days after the date FMCSA modifies a notice of proposed removal, the certified VA medical examiner must comply with §§ 390.123 through 390.135 and correct any deficiencies identified in the modified notice of proposed removal as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(ii) If FMCSA finds it has not relied on an erroneous reason in proposing removal, FMCSA will affirm the notice of proposed removal and notify the certified VA medical examiner in writing of the determination. No later than 60 days after the date the FMCSA affirms the notice of proposed removal, the certified VA medical examiner must comply with §§ 390.123 through 390.135 and correct the deficiencies identified in the notice of proposed removal as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(iii) If the certified VA medical examiner does not submit a written response within 30 days of the date of issuance of a notice of proposed removal, the removal becomes effective and the certified VA medical examiner is immediately removed from the National Registry of Certified Medical Examiners.
