
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Unified Registration System
####### § 390.201 USDOT Registration.
######## General.

(c)(1)(i) A person that fails to file Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section is subject to the penalties prescribed in 49 U.S.C. 521(b)(2)(B) or 49 U.S.C. 14901(a), as appropriate.

(ii) A person that fails to complete biennial updates to the information pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section is subject to the penalties prescribed in 49 U.S.C. 521(b)(2)(B) or 49 U.S.C. 14901(a), as appropriate, and deactivation of its USDOT Number.

(iii) A person that furnishes misleading information or makes false statements upon Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, is subject to the penalties prescribed in 49 U.S.C. 521(b)(2)(B), 49 U.S.C. 14901(a) or 49 U.S.C. 14907, as appropriate.

(2) Upon receipt and processing of Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, FMCSA will issue the applicant an inactive identification number (USDOT Number). FMCSA will activate the USDOT Number after completion of applicable administrative filings pursuant to § 390.205(a), unless the applicant is subject to § 390.205(b). An applicant may not begin operations nor mark a commercial motor vehicle with the USDOT Number until after the date of the Agency's written notice that the USDOT Number has been activated.

(3) The motor carrier must display a valid USDOT Number on each self-propelled CMV, as defined in § 390.5, along with the additional information required by § 390.21.
