
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Appendix A to Part 390 - Applicability of the Registration, Financial Responsibility, and Safety Regulations to Motor Carriers of Passengers
####### commercial motor vehicle,commercial motor vehicle

A second CMV definition, based on the statutory definition in the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986 (CMVSA) codified at 49 U.S.C. 31301(4), governs the commercial driver's license (CDL) program and the corresponding drug and alcohol testing requirements (49 CFR parts 383 and 382, respectively), which apply to CMV operations both in interstate and intrastate commerce. For the purposes of determining which passenger carrier operations require a CDL, the jurisdiction conferringdefinition in parts 383 and 382 includes any motor vehicle that has a GVWR or GVW of 26,001 pounds or more and is used to transport passengers, regardless of the number of passengers that the vehicle is designed to or actually does transport. Thisdefinition also includes any vehicle designed or used to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, and any vehicle used to transport certain hazardous materials.

Third, with some exceptions, those portions of the FMCSRs based on Title 49, Subtitle IV, Part B, and frequently referred to as the "commercial regulations," are applicable (among others) to for-hire interstate transportation of passengers in any vehicle, no matter the GVW, GVWR, or passenger capacity (49 U.S.C. 13102(14), 13902 and 49 CFR part 365). The level of insurance required to operate as a for-hire passenger carrier is governed by the number of passengers the vehicle is designed to transport (49 CFR part 387, subpart B). The required level of insurance is $1.5 million if the carrier's largest vehicle has a seating capacity of 15 or fewer passengers or $5 million if the largest vehicle has a seating capacity of 16 passengers or more. (49 CFR 387.33T). These are also the levels of insurance for which evidence is required to be maintained on file with FMCSA for a passenger carrier to obtain and retain for-hire operating authority registration under 49 U.S.C. 13902. There is an exception to some Federal insurance/financial responsibility requirements for passenger carriers that receive certain grants from the Federal Transit Administration. (49 U.S.C. 31138(e)(4)).

To determine the extent to which specific FMCSRs apply to an operation, it is first necessary to evaluate whether the operations are within the scope of any of the definitions outlined above. If the operations are within FMCSA's jurisdiction, then it is necessary to determine whether any specific regulatory or statutory exemptions apply to the operation.

There are specific statutory exemptions and regulatory exceptions applicable to part or all of FMCSA's jurisdiction. Most exemptions from FMCSA's commercial authority are codified in 49 U.S.C. 13506. Some of these exemptions applicable to passenger carrier operations are discussed in detail in below. The exemptions or exceptions from FMCSA's safety regulations are codified primarily in 49 CFR 390.3 and 390.3T. Specific examples of applicability questions FMCSA frequently receives are presented in question and answer format. The Agency's analytical framework is straightforward: (1) does the operation generally fall within FMCSA's jurisdiction, and, (2) if so, does any statutory or regulatory exemption or exception limit the applicability of the FMCSRs?

In 1938, Congress amended section 203(b) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935 (1935 Act) to exempt from the requirement to obtain operating authority registration "the transportation of persons or property by motor vehicle when incidental to transportation by aircraft" (Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, Sec. 1107(j), Chap. 601, 52 Stat. 973, 1029, June 23, 1938). Section 203(b)(7a) of the 1935 Act is now codified at 49 U.S.C. 13506(a)(8)(A) and implemented by 49 CFR 372.117(a).

In 1964, the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) reaffirmed its longstanding position that the exemption for incidental-to-air transportation did not require passengers to hold a through ticket when it addressed the following question:

The parties who commented on the ICC's passenger rulemaking in the 1960s reported that "in virtually no case is it the practice of the airlines to issue . . . through tickets" (95 M.C.C. 532). That has not changed. Package deals combining ground and air transportation may be offered by travel agents or online ticketing services, but airlines themselves only rarely offer such arrangements. FMCSA sees no reason to change the ICC's common-sense conclusion that motor carriers offering transportation of passengers to or from an airport are eligible for the exemption in current 49 U.S.C. 13506(a)(8)(A) even though the passengers are not traveling on a single ticket that includes both ground and aircraft transportation.

As discussed below, however, 49 U.S.C. 13506(a)(8)(A) does not confer an exemption from applicable safety regulations. Prearranged motor vehicle transportation, secured by an advance guarantee demonstrating an obligation by the passenger to take the service and the motor carrier to provide the service, immediately prior or subsequent to aircraft transportation across State lines is part of a continuous movement in interstate commerce, as demonstrated by the passenger's fixed and persisting intent. Motor carriers performing intrastate movements of interstate air passengers by CMV thus do not need operating authority registration if they operate only within the radius specified as "incidental to transportation by aircraft" in ยง 372.117(a), but if the transportation is prearranged, they are nevertheless operating in interstate commerce and are subject to the Federal safety regulations unless they are otherwise exempt.
