
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Appendix A to Part 390 - Applicability of the Registration, Financial Responsibility, and Safety Regulations to Motor Carriers of Passengers
####### Central Freight Lines,Interstate Commerce Commission,,Baltimore & O.S.W.R. Co.,Settle,,Southerland,St. Croix Taxicab Ass'n,

The Federal courts have long held that "[t]he characterization of transportation between two points within a single state as interstate or intrastate depends on the essential character of the shipment involved . . ." The crucial factor in determining the essential character of a shipment is `the shipper's fixed and persisting intent at the time of shipment.' "v.899 F.2d 413, 419 (5th Cir. 1990) (citing, among other cases,v.260 U.S. 166, 170-71 (1922)); see alsov.315 F.2d 364 (3rd Cir. 1963) (holding that intrastate transportation of passengers in the Virgin Islands pursuant to prearranged packages covering both lodging and travel was interstate commerce). The key inquiry is whether, before or at the time the trip begins, the shipper has manifested his/her intent to ship something in interstate commerce. In the case of passenger transportation, the "shipper" is the passenger, and the fixed intent to travel in interstate commerce is best demonstrated by pre-arranging the interstate air (or water or rail) transportation and the intrastate ground transportation by CMV at more or less the same time, and substantially before the interstate trip begins.

For example, reserving a seat via the internet, with an advanced guarantee obligating the passenger to take the service and the motor carrier to provide the service, in a limousine for transportation to or from an airport about the same time of booking an interstate flight that will occur multiple weeks in the future would demonstrate a fixed and persisting intent to travel in interstate commerce, placing the limousine segment of the trip in the stream of interstate commerce. On the other hand, deciding on the day of a trip to take a taxicab to or from the airport before or after the flight would not involve prearrangement and would not amount to interstate commerce. In any case, evidence of a traveler's intent is normally based on documentation, not assumptions.

The same kind of analysis applies to passengers boarding or disembarking from a cruise ship. Prior arrangement of CMV ground transportation-for example via tour bus from a port of call to some inland destination-made in conjunction with cruise-ship reservations would demonstrate the fixed intent of the passenger to travel by motor vehicle as part of an interstate or international trip. In some cases, cruise lines may even sell through-tickets that cover both maritime and land transportation which clearly demonstrate both prearrangement and the fixed intent of the travelers to use multiple modes of transportation on an interstate or international trip.
