
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Appendix A to Part 390 - Applicability of the Registration, Financial Responsibility, and Safety Regulations to Motor Carriers of Passengers
####### for-hire motor carrier

"Compensation," as used in the definition ofin §§ 390.5T and 390.5, includes both direct and indirect payments. Companies providing intercity motorcoach service are directly compensated, while hotels, car rental companies, parking facilities, and other businesses that offer shuttle bus service are indirectly compensated because they add the cost of that service to their room rates, car rental rates, etc. By statute, most taxicab service is not subject to the requirement to obtain commercial operating authority registration (49 U.S.C. 13506(a)(2)) or to maintain minimum levels of financial responsibility (49 U.S.C. 31138(e)(2), § 387.27(b)(2)). In addition, most taxis are not subject to the FMCSRs because their designed passenger capacity is below nine and their GVW is too low to make them CMVs under §§ 390.5T and 390.5.

Passenger transportation is either for-hire or private. Unless exempted by statute or regulation, for-hire motor carriers must obtain operating authority registration under 49 U.S.C. 13902 before engaging in interstate transportation. While a passenger carrier may provide both for-hire and private transportation, a specific trip is either for-hire or private depending upon the presence or absence of direct or indirect compensation. Though private passenger transportation is not available to the public at large, for-hire transportation service may or may not be available to the general public. Compensation is the primary factor that determines for-hire transportation. An entity that is nonbusiness, nonprofit, or not-for-profit, is nevertheless engaged in for-hire passenger transportation when it receives compensation for such transportation. Compensation may come in many forms including donations, gifts, gas money, offerings, etc. received for transportation. The question of whether an operation is for-hire should not be conflated, however, with the distinction required to determine whether a private passenger carrier's operation is business or non-business. In those cases, the Agency has already determined that the operation is not for-hire.
