
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Appendix A to Part 390 - Applicability of the Registration, Financial Responsibility, and Safety Regulations to Motor Carriers of Passengers
####### not

A few months later, Sec. 212 of the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999 (MCSIA) (Pub. L. 106-159, 113 Stat. 1748,1766, Dec. 9, 1999) established FMCSA and directed the Agency to decide whether all motor carriers operating, smaller vehicles designed or used for 9 to 15 passengers, receiving payment for transportation should be covered by all of the FMCSRs. But the statute added another provision specifically directing FMCSAto exempt all motor carrier operations in smaller vehicles, those designed or used for 9 to 15 passengers, for hire when making its decision about the scope of FMCSR applicability. (113 Stat. 1766). In the preamble of the notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) to implement that mandate, published on January 11, 2001 (66 FR 2767), FMCSA proposed to focus on small passenger carriers operating for direct compensation, stating that these operators were "identified as having significant deficiencies in their safety management controls for their drivers and vehicles" and pose "a serious safety risk to the motoring public" (66 FR 2768). The final rule reaffirmed this position and adopted the regulatory changes from the NPRM largely as proposed. (68 FR 47860, Aug. 12, 2003).

In view of the varied and sometimes inconsistentregulatory guidance on "compensation" issued in the past, FMCSA takes this opportunity to clarify and explain its implementation of the statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to operations conducted in vehicles designed or used to transport between 9 and 15 passengers. Pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 31132(1)(B) and (C), a vehicle designed or used to transport between 9 and 15 passengers (counting the driver as a passenger) may not be a CMV for purposes of the FMCSRs unless it is used to transport passengers "for compensation" or has a GVW or GVWR of 10,001 pounds or greater. Similarly, under 49 U.S.C. 31132(1)(C), a vehicle designed or used to transport more than 15 passengers (including the driver) is a CMV even if it is "not used to transport passengers for compensation." The term "compensation" is, therefore, jurisdictional. If a vehicle is designed and used to transport more than 8, but fewer than 16 passengers, and has a GVW and GVWR of less than 10,001 pounds, without "compensation," it is not a CMV, and FMCSA has no safety jurisdiction over it.

This issue is particularly critical for vanpools. Although payment is compensation, FMCSA decided that the intent of Congress is not to recognize the money collected in a vanpool as compensation unless the revenue amount is required to be reported to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 1402(b) and 132(f). It is also important to recognize that although previously characterized as an exemption in policy and preamble statements, Congress never promulgated, and the Agency never adopted, a regulatory exemption for vanpool operations.

Consistent with prior statements regarding the applicability of the FMCSRs, and to remain consistent with congressional intent, the Agency is not changing its position. Therefore, FMCSA will not pursue enforcement against commuter vanpool operations when all the following conditions are met: (1) the motor vehicle is operated by individuals traveling to and from work transporting other individuals as part of a daily commute to and from work in an interstate, single daily round trip; (2) the motor vehicle is designed and used to carry no more than 15 individuals (including the driver); (3) the GVW and GVWR is less than 10,001 pounds; and (4) the money received by the vanpool operator for transportation is not reported to the IRS, pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 1402(b) and 132(f), or is not deemed reportable by an IRS investigation under the same provisions.
