
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Appendix A to Part 390 - Applicability of the Registration, Financial Responsibility, and Safety Regulations to Motor Carriers of Passengers
####### Guidance:,CMV

This scenario describes for-hire interstate transportation by a CMV as defined in §§ 390.5T and 390.5, however, some exemptions may apply. The contractor is not eligible for the exception for "school bus operations" in §§ 390.3T(f)(1) and 390.3(f)(1) because the operations are defined in §§ 390.5T and 390.5 as the transportation of school children and/or personnel "from home to school and from school to home." In this scenario, the students and faculty gather at the school and are transported, not from and to home, but from the school premises to out-of-State venues and then back to the school premises. The school bus contractor must obtain safety registration and a USDOT number under 49 U.S.C. 31134. The contractor must register by following the procedures in 49 CFR part 390 subpart E. In addition, the contractor is operating a school bus with a passenger capacity of at least 16, which also meets the definition ofunder § 383.5. The drivers of the school buses must therefore hold CDLs with the applicable endorsements, and the employer of such drivers must administer a drug and alcohol testing program in compliance with part 382.

Although both examples of the school bus contractor's passenger transportation are for-hire in interstate commerce, the contractor is not required to obtain operating authority registration. In this scenario the contractor is engaged in transportation to or from school, and the transportation is organized, sponsored, and paid for by the school district. The regulatory exception in § 372.103 and the statutory exemption in 49 U.S.C. 13506(a)(1) both apply to each type of passenger transportation conducted by the school bus contractor in this scenario.

Likewise, the school bus contractor qualifies for the exception in § 387.27(b)(4) because it is a motor carrier operating under contract providing transportation of preprimary, primary, and secondary students for extra-curricular trips organized, sponsored, and paid for by a school district. Accordingly, the contractor is not required to comply with Federal financial responsibility requirements.
