
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 390 - FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY REGULATIONS; GENERAL
###### Appendix A to Part 390 - Applicability of the Registration, Financial Responsibility, and Safety Regulations to Motor Carriers of Passengers
####### Guidance:

The daycare center-related transportation is for-hire interstate transportation of passengers by CMV. The organization operates CMVs, as defined in §§ 390.5T and 390.5, in interstate commerce as a for-hire motor carrier of passengers and is subject to the applicable FMCSRs in parts 350 through 399. The faith-based organization receives compensation through the collection of fees for services, including transportation, paid for the daycare, and all drivers and vehicles provide at least some transportation for the daycare. While some of the transportation operations are not for-hire, because all of the drivers and vehicles are used in all of the operations, the Agency considers the organization to be engaged in for-hire, interstate passenger transportation as well as private, interstate passenger transportation. While there is a limited exception from the safety regulations in parts 390 through 399 for smaller vehicles in §§ 390.3T(f)(6) and 390.3(f)(6), it does not apply to the organization because some of the organization's passenger-carrying vehicles are designed or used to transport 16 or more passengers in interstate commerce. In addition, because some of the vehicles are designed to transport 16 or more passengers, and all of the drivers operate all of the different vehicles on occasion, all the drivers must have CDLs with Passenger endorsements, and the faith-based organization must comply with the drug and alcohol testing regulations in part 382.

Because the faith-based organization receives indirect compensation through the fees charged for the daycare center, it is operating as an interstate, for-hire motor carrier of passengers. No exemption from operating authority registration requirements applies. The organization must register, therefore, by following the procedures in 49 CFR part 365 subpart A regarding operating authority registration and part 390 subpart E regarding USDOT number registration.

Because the faith-based organization operates some passenger vehicles with a seating capacity of at least 16, for-hire in interstate commerce, it is required under §§ 387.33T and 387.33 to maintain $5 million of financial responsibility.
