
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 391 - QUALIFICATIONS OF DRIVERS AND LONGER COMBINATION VEHICLE (LCV) DRIVER INSTRUCTORS
###### Subpart F - Files and Records
####### ยง 391.53 Driver investigation history file.

(a) Each motor carrier must maintain records relating to the investigation into the safety performance history of a new or prospective driver pursuant to ยง 391.23(d) and (e). This file must be maintained in a secure location with controlled access.

(1) The motor carrier must ensure that access to this data is limited to those who are involved in the hiring decision or who control access to the data. In addition, the motor carrier's insurer may have access to the data, except the alcohol and controlled substances data.

(2) This data must only be used for the hiring decision.

(b) The file must include:

(1) A copy of the driver's written authorization for the motor carrier to seek information about a driver's alcohol and controlled substances history as required under ยง 391.23(f)(1).

(2) A copy of the response(s) received for investigations required by paragraphs (d) and (e) of ยง 391.23 from each previous employer, or documentation of good faith efforts to contact them. The record must include the previous employer's name and address, the date the previous employer was contacted, and the information received about the driver from the previous employer. Failures to contact a previous employer, or of them to provide the required safety performance history information, must be documented.

(c) The safety performance histories received from previous employers for a driver who is hired must be retained for as long as the driver is employed by that motor carrier and for three years thereafter.

(d) A motor carrier must make all records and information in this file available to an authorized representative or special agent of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, an authorized State or local enforcement agency representative, or an authorized third party, upon request or as part of any inquiry within the time period specified by the requesting representative.
