
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 395 - HOURS OF SERVICE OF DRIVERS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 395.15 Automatic on-board recording devices.
######## Information requirements.

(b)(1) Automatic on-board recording devices shall produce, upon demand, a driver's hours of service chart, electronic display, or printout showing the time and sequence of duty status changes including the drivers' starting time at the beginning of each day.

(2) The device shall provide a means whereby authorized Federal, State, or local officials can immediately check the status of a driver's hours of service. This information may be used in conjunction with records of duty status maintained in other media, for the previous 7 days.

(3) Support systems used in conjunction with on-board recorders at a driver's home terminal or the motor carrier's principal place of business must be capable of providing authorized Federal, State or local officials with summaries of an individual driver's hours of service records, including the information specified in ยง 395.8(d) of this part. The support systems must also provide information concerning on-board system sensor failures and identification of edited data. Such support systems should meet the information interchange requirements of the American National Standard Code for Information Interchange (ANSCII) (EIARS-232/CCITT V.24 port (National Bureau of Standards "Code for Information Interchange," FIPS PUB 1-1)).

(4) The driver shall have in his/her possession records of duty status for the previous 7 consecutive days available for inspection while on duty. These records shall consist of information stored in and retrievable from the automatic on-board recording device, other written records, or any combination thereof.

(5) All copies of other written records of duty status referenced in paragraph (b)(4) of this section must be signed by the driver. The driver's signature certifies that the information contained thereon is true and correct.

(c) The duty status and additional information shall be recorded as follows:

(1) "Off duty" or "OFF", or by an identifiable code or character;

(2) "Sleeper berth" or "SB" or by an identifiable code or character (only if the sleeper berth is used);

(3) "Driving" or "D", or by an identifiable code or character; and

(4) "On-duty not driving" or "ON", or by an identifiable code or character.

(5) Date;

(6) Total miles driving today;

(7) Truck or tractor and trailer number;

(8) Name of carrier;

(9) Main office address;

(10) 24-hour period starting time (e.g., midnight, 9:00 a.m., noon, 3:00 p.m.)

(11) Name of co-driver;

(12) Total hours; and

(13) Shipping document number(s), or name of shipper and commodity.
