
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 395 - HOURS OF SERVICE OF DRIVERS
###### Subpart B - Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
####### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 395 - Functional Specifications for All Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
######## Correction of errors with team drivers.

(2)In the case of team drivers, the driver account associated with the driving time records may be edited and reassigned between the team drivers if there was a mistake resulting in a mismatch between the actual driver and the driver recorded by the ELD and if both team drivers were respectively indicated in each other's records as a co-driver. The ELD must require each co-driver to confirm the change for the corrective action to take effect.

An ELD must restrict availability of motor carrier entries outlined in this section only to authenticated "support personnel" account holders.

If an ELD or a technology that includes an ELD function offers configuration options to the motor carrier or the driver that are not otherwise addressed or prohibited in this appendix, the configuration options must not affect the ELD's compliance with the requirements of this rule for each configuration setting of the ELD.

(a) An ELD must allow a motor carrier to unilaterally configure the availability of each of the three categories listed on Table 2 of this appendix that the motor carrier chooses to authorize for each of its drivers. By default, none of these categories must be available to a new driver account without the motor carrier proactively configuring their availability.

(b) A motor carrier may change the configuration for the availability of each category for each of its drivers. Changes to the configuration setting must be recorded on the ELD and communicated to the applicable authenticated driver during the ELD login process.

(a) An ELD must provide the motor carrier the ability to configure a driver account exempt from use of an ELD.

(b) The ELD must default the setting of this configuration option for each new driver account created on an ELD to "no exemption."

(c) An exemption must be proactively configured for an applicable driver account by the motor carrier. The ELD must prompt the motor carrier to annotate the record and provide an explanation for the configuration of exemption.

(d) If a motor carrier configures a driver account as exempt

(1) The ELD must present the configured indication that is in effect for that driver during the ELD login and logout processes.

(2) The ELD must continue to record ELD driving time but suspend detection of missing data elements data diagnostic event for the driver described in section 4.6.1.5 of this appendix and data transfer compliance monitoring function described in section 4.6.1.7 when such driver is authenticated on the ELD.

(a) An ELD may allow the motor carrier (via a monitoring algorithm or support personnel) to screen, review, and request corrective edits to the driver's certified (as described in section 4.3.2.3 of this appendix) and submitted records through the ELD system electronically. If this function is implemented by the ELD, the ELD must also support functions for the driver to see and review the requested edits.

(b) Edits requested by anyone or any system other than the driver must require the driver's electronic confirmation or rejection.

An ELD must automatically record driving time when the vehicle is in motion by setting duty status to driving for the driver unless, before the vehicle is in motion, the driver:

(a) Sets the duty status to off-duty and indicates personal use of CMV, in which case duty status must remain off-duty until driver's indication of the driving condition ends; or

(b) Sets the duty status to on-duty not driving and indicates yard moves, in which case duty status must remain on-duty not driving until driver's indication of the driving condition ends.

When the duty status is set to driving, and the CMV has not been in-motion for 5 consecutive minutes, the ELD must prompt the driver to confirm continued driving status or enter the proper duty status. If the driver does not respond to the ELD prompt within 1-minute after receiving the prompt, the ELD must automatically switch the duty status to on-duty not driving. The time thresholds for purposes of this section must not be configurable.

An ELD must not feature any other automatic records of duty setting mechanism than those described in sections 4.4.1.1 and 4.4.1.2 of this appendix. Duty status changes that are not initiated by the driver, including duty status alteration recommendations by motor carrier support personnel or a software algorithm, are subject to motor carrier edit requirements in section 4.3.3.1.3.

(a) For each change in duty status, the ELD must convert automatically captured vehicle position in latitude/longitude coordinates into geo-location information, indicating approximate distance and direction to an identifiable location corresponding to the name of a nearby city, town, or village, with a State abbreviation.

(b) Geo-location information must be derived from a database that contains all cities, towns, and villages with a population of 5,000 or greater and listed in ANSI INCITS 446-2008 (R2013) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 395.38).

(c) An ELD's viewable outputs (such as printouts or display) must feature geo-location information as place names in text format.

(a) An ELD must have the capability to convert and track date and time captured in UTC standard to the time standard in effect at driver's home terminal, taking the daylight savings time changes into account by using the parameter "Time Zone Offset from UTC" as specified in section 7.41 of this appendix.

(b) An ELD must record the driver's record of duty status using the time standard in effect at the driver's home terminal for a 24-hour period beginning with the time specified by the motor carrier for that driver's home terminal.

(c) The data element "Time Zone Offset from UTC" must be included in the "Driver's Certification of Own Records" events as specified in section 4.5.1.4 of this appendix.

This section describes the security measures for configuring and tracking event attributes for ELD records, edits, and entries in a standardized manner.

(a) Each ELD event must feature an event sequence ID number.

(1) The event sequence ID number for each ELD event must use continuous numbering across all users of that ELD and across engine and ELD power on and off cycles.

(2) An ELD must use the next available event sequence ID number (incremented by one) each time a new event log is recorded.

(3) The event sequence ID number must track at least the last 65,536 unique events recorded on the ELD.

(b) The continuous event sequence ID numbering structure used by the ELD must be mapped into a continuous hexadecimal number between 0000 (Decimal 0) and FFFF (Decimal 65535).

(a) An ELD must retain the original records even when allowed edits and entries are made over a driver's ELD records.

(b) An ELD must keep track of all event record history, and the process used by the ELD must produce the event record status, event record origin, and event type for the ELD records in the standard categories specified in sections 7.23, 7.22, and 7.25 of this appendix, respectively for each record as a standard security measure. For example, an ELD may use the process outlined in sections 4.4.4.2.1-4.4.4.2.6 to meet the requirements of this section.

At the instance an ELD creates a record automatically, the ELD must:

(a) Set the "Event Record Status" to "1" (active); and

(b) Set the "Event Record Origin" to "1" (automatically recorded by ELD).

At the instance of a driver editing existing record(s), the ELD must:

(a) Identify the ELD record(s) being modified for which the "Event Record Status" is currently set to "1" (active);

(b) Acquire driver input for the intended edit and construct the ELD record(s) that will replace the record(s) identified in paragraph 4.4.4.2.2(a) of this appendix;

(c) Set the "Event Record Status" of the ELD record(s) identified in paragraph 4.4.4.2.2(a) of this appendix, which is being modified, to "2" (inactive-changed);

(d) Set the "Event Record Status" of the ELD record(s) constructed in paragraph 4.4.4.2.2(b) of this appendix to "1" (active); and

(e) Set the "Event Record Origin" of the ELD record(s) constructed in paragraph 4.4.4.2.2(b) of this appendix to "2" (edited or entered by the driver).

When a driver enters missing record(s), the ELD must:

(a) Acquire driver input for the missing entries being implemented and construct the new ELD record(s) that will represent the driver entries;

(b) Set the "event record status" of the ELD record(s) constructed in paragraph 4.4.4.2.3(a) of this appendix to "1" (active); and

(c) Set the "event record origin" of the ELD record(s) constructed in paragraph 4.4.4.2.3(a) of this appendix to "2" (edited or entered by the driver).

When a driver reviews and assumes ELD record(s) logged under the unidentified driver profile, the ELD must:

(a) Identify the ELD record(s) logged under the unidentified driver profile that will be reassigned to the driver;

(b) Use elements of the unidentified driver log(s) from paragraph 4.4.4.2.4(a) of this appendix and acquire driver input to populate missing elements of the log originally recorded under the unidentified driver profile, and construct the new event record(s) for the driver;

(c) Set the event record status of the ELD record(s) identified in paragraph 4.4.4.2.4(a) of this appendix, which is being modified, to "2" (inactive-changed);

(d) Set the event record status of the ELD record(s) constructed in paragraph 4.4.4.2.4(b) of this appendix to "1" (active); and

(e) Set the event record origin of the ELD record(s) constructed in paragraph 4.4.4.2.4(b) of this appendix to "4" (assumed from unidentified driver profile).

If a motor carrier requests an edit on a driver's records electronically, the ELD must:

(a) Identify the ELD record(s) the motor carrier requests to be modified for which the "event record status" is currently set to "1" (active);

(b) Acquire motor carrier input for the intended edit and construct the ELD record(s) that will replace the record identified in paragraph 4.4.4.2.5(a) of this appendix-if approved by the driver;

(c) Set the event record status of the ELD record(s) in paragraph 4.4.4.2.5(b) of this appendix to "3" (inactive-change requested); and

(d) Set the event record origin of the ELD record constructed in paragraph 4.4.4.2.5(b) of this appendix to "3" (edit requested by an authenticated user other than the driver).

(a) If edits are requested by the motor carrier, the ELD must allow the driver to review the requested edits and indicate on the ELD whether the driver confirms or rejects the requested edit(s).

(b) If the driver approves the motor carrier's edit suggestion the ELD must:

(1) Set the event record status of the ELD record(s) identified under paragraph 4.4.4.2.5 (a) of this appendix being modified, to "2" (inactive-changed); and

(2) Set the "event record status" of the ELD record(s) constructed in paragraph 4.4.4.2.5 (b) of this appendix to "1" (active).

(c) If the driver disapproves the motor carrier's edit(s) suggestion, the ELD must set the "event record status" of the ELD record(s) identified in paragraph 4.4.4.2.5 (b) of this appendix to "4" (inactive-change rejected).

(a) An ELD must support standard security measures that require the calculation and recording of standard data check values for each ELD event recorded, for each line of the output file, and for the entire data file to be generated for transmission to an authorized safety official or the motor carrier.

(b) For purposes of implementing data check calculations, the alphanumeric-to-numeric mapping provided in Table 3 of this appendix must be used.

(c) Each ELD event record type specified in sections 4.5.1.1 and 4.5.1.3 of this appendix must include an event data check value, which must be calculated as specified in section 4.4.5.1. An event data check value must be calculated at the time of the following instances and must accompany that event record thereafter:

(1) When an event record is automatically created by the ELD;

(2) When an authorized edit is performed by the driver on the ELD;

(3) When an electronic edit proposal is created by the motor carrier through the ELD system.

(d) Each line of the ELD output file must include a line data check value, which must be calculated as specified in section 4.4.5.2 of this appendix.

(e) Each ELD report must also include a file data check value, which must be calculated as specified in section 4.4.5.3 of this appendix.

The event data check value must be calculated as follows.

(a) A checksum calculation includes the summation of numeric values or mappings of a specified group of alphanumeric data elements. The ELD must calculate an event checksum value associated with each ELD event at the instance of the event record being created.

(b) The event record elements that must be included in the checksum calculation are the following:

(1) <Event Type>,

(2) <Event Code>,

(3) <Event Date>,

(4) <Event Time>,

(5) <Vehicle Miles>,

(6) <Engine Hours>,

(7) <Event Latitude>,

(8) <Event Longitude>,

(9) <CMV Power Unit Number>", and

(10) <ELD username>.

(c) The ELD must sum the numeric values of all individual characters making up the listed data elements using the character to decimal value coding specified in Table 3 of this appendix, and use the 8-bit lower byte of the hexadecimal representation of the summed total as the event checksum value for that event.

The event data check value must be the hexadecimal representation of the output 8-bit byte, after the below bitwise operations are performed on the binary representation of the event checksum value, as set forth below:

(a) Three consecutive circular shift left (rotate no carry -left) operations; and

(b) A bitwise exclusive OR (XOR) operation with the hexadecimal value C3 (decimal 195; binary 11000011).

A line data check value must be calculated at the time of the generation of the ELD output file, to transfer data to authorized safety officials or to catalogue drivers' ELD records at a motor carrier's facility. A line data check value must be calculated as follows.

(a) The ELD must calculate a line checksum value associated with each line of ELD output file at the instance when an ELD output file is generated.

(b) The data elements that must be included in the line checksum calculation vary as per the output data file specified in section 4.8.2.1 of this appendix.

(c) The ELD must convert each character featured in a line of output using the character to decimal value coding specified on Table 3 of this appendix and sum the converted numeric values of each character listed on a given ELD output line item (excluding the line data check value being calculated), and use the 8-bit lower byte value of the hexadecimal representation of the summed total as the line checksum value for that line of output.

The line data check value must be calculated by performing the following operations on the binary representation of the line checksum value as follows:

(a) Three consecutive circular shift left (rotate no carry -left) operations on the line checksum value; and

(b) A bitwise XOR operation with the hexadecimal value 96 (decimal 150; binary 10010110).

The calculated line data check value must be appended as the last line item of each of the individual line items of the ELD output file as specified in the output file format in section 4.8.2.1 of this appendix.

A file data check value must also be calculated at the time of the creation of an ELD output file. A file data check value must be calculated as follows.

(a) The ELD must calculate a single 16-bit file checksum value associated with an ELD output file at the instance when an ELD output file is generated.

(b) The file data check value calculation must include all individual line data check values contained in that file.

(c) The ELD must sum all individual line data check values contained in a data file output created, and use the lower two 8-bit byte values of the hexadecimal representation of the summed total as the "file checksum" value.

(a) The file data check value must be calculated by performing the following operations on the binary representation of the file checksum value:

(1) Three consecutive circular shift left (aka rotate no carry -left) operations on each 8-bit bytes of the value; and

(2) A bitwise XOR operation with the hexadecimal value 969C (decimal 38556; binary 1001011010011100).

(b) The file data check value must be the 16-bit output obtained from the above process.

The calculated 16-bit file data check value must be converted to hexadecimal 8-bit bytes and must be appended as the last line item of the ELD output file as specified in the output file format in section 4.8.2.1.11 of this appendix.

An ELD must record data at the following discrete events:

When a driver's duty status changes, the ELD must associate the record with the driver, the record originator-if created during an edit or entry-the vehicle, the motor carrier, and the shipping document number and must include the following data elements:

(a) <Event Sequence ID Number> as described in section 7.24 of this appendix;

(b) <Event Record Status> as described in section 7.23;

(c) <Event Record> Origin as described in section 7.22;

(d) <Event Type> as described in section 7.25;

(e) <Event Code as described in section 7.20;
