
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 395 - HOURS OF SERVICE OF DRIVERS
###### Subpart B - Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
####### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 395 - Functional Specifications for All Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)

(a) This appendix specifies the minimal requirements for an electronic logging device (ELD) necessary for an ELD provider to build and certify that its technology is compliant with this appendix.

The ELD discussed in this appendix is an electronic module capable of recording the electronic records of duty status for CMV drivers using the unit in a driving environment within a CMV and meets the compliance requirements in this appendix.

Users of ELDs are:

(a) CMV drivers employed by a motor carrier; and

(b) Support personnel who have been authorized by the motor carrier to:

(1) Create, remove, and manage user accounts;

(2) Configure allowed ELD parameters; and

(3) Access, review, and manage drivers' ELD records on behalf of the motor carrier.

An ELD may be implemented as a stand-alone technology or within another electronic module. It may be installed in a CMV or may be implemented on a handheld unit that may be moved from vehicle to vehicle. The functional requirements are the same for all types of system architecture that may be used in implementing the ELD functionality.

(a) An ELD is integrally synchronized with the engine of the CMV such that driving time can be automatically recorded for the driver operating the CMV and using the ELD.

(b) An ELD allows for manual inputs from the driver and the motor carrier support personnel and automatically captures date and time, vehicle position, and vehicle operational parameters.

(c) An ELD records a driver's electronic RODS and other supporting events with the required data elements specified in this appendix and retains data to support the performance requirements specified in this appendix.

(d) An ELD generates a standard data file output and transfers it to an authorized safety official upon request.

(e) This appendix specifies minimally required data elements that must be part of an event record such that a standard ELD output file can be produced by all compliant ELDs.

(f) Figure 1 provides a visual layout of how this appendix is generally organized to further explain the required sub-functions of an ELD.

(a) Section 2 lists the abbreviations used throughout this appendix.

(b) Section 3 provides definitions for terms and notations used in this document.

(c) Section 4 lists functional requirements for an ELD. More specifically, section 4.1 describes the security requirements for account management within an ELD system and introduces the term "Unidentified Driver" account. Section 4.2 explains internal engine synchronization requirements and its applicability when used in recording a driver's record of duty status in CMVs. Section 4.3 describes the inputs of an ELD which includes automatically measured signals by the ELD as covered in section 4.3.1, and manual entries by the authenticated driver as covered in section 4.3.2 and by the motor carrier as covered in section 4.3.3. The ELD requirements for internal processing and tracking of information flow are described in section 4.4, which includes conditions for and prohibitions against automatic setting of duty-status in section 4.4.1, required geo-location and date and time conversion functions in sections 4.4.2 and 4.4.3, respectively, use of event attributes for tracking of edit and entry history in section 4.4.4, and the use of data check functions in the recording of ELD logs in section 4.4.5 as standard security measures for all ELDs. Section 4.5 describes the events an ELD must record and the data elements each type of event must include. Section 4.6 introduces device self-monitoring requirements and standardizes the minimal set of malfunctions and data diagnostic events an ELD must be able to detect. Section 4.7 introduces technical functions that are intended to guard a driver against harassment and introduces a privacy preserving provision when a driver operates a CMV for personal purposes. Section 4.8 explains ELD outputs, which are the information displayed to a user and the standard data output file an ELD must produce. Sections 4.9 and 4.10, respectively, describe the data reporting requirements and the communications protocols.

(d) Section 5 describes the ELD certification and registration process.

(e) Section 6 lists the cited references throughout this appendix.

(f) Section 7 provides a data elements dictionary referencing each data element identified in this appendix.

A vehicle databus refers to an internal communications network that interconnects components inside a vehicle and facilitates exchange of data between subsystems typically using serial or control area network protocols.

An ELD event refers to a discrete instance in time when the ELD records data with the data elements specified in this appendix. The discrete ELD events relate to the driver's duty status and ELD's operational integrity. They are either triggered by input from the driver (driver's duty status changes, driver's login/logout activity, etc.) or triggered by the ELD's internal monitoring functions (ELD malfunction detection, data diagnostics detection, intermediate logs, etc.). ELD events and required data elements for each type of ELD event are described in detail in section 4.5.1 of this appendix.

As specified in further detail in section 4.3.3.1.2 of this appendix, an ELD must allow a motor carrier to configure an ELD for a driver who may be exempt from the use of the ELD. An example of an exempt driver would be a driver operating under the short-haul exemption in ยง 395.1(e) of this part (100 air-mile radius driver and non-CDL 150-air mile radius driver). Even though exempt drivers do not have to use an ELD, in operations when an ELD equipped CMV may be shared between exempt and non-exempt drivers, motor carriers can use this allowed configuration to avoid issues with unidentified driver data diagnostics errors.

Geo-location is the conversion of a position measurement in latitude/longitude coordinates into a description of the distance and direction to a recognizable nearby location name. Geo-location information is used on an ELD's display or printout.

(a) An ignition power cycle refers to the engine's power status changing from "on to off" or "off to on", typically with the driver controlling engine power status by switching the ignition key positions.

(b) An ignition power on cycle refers to the engine power sequence changing from "off to on and then off". This refers to a continuous period when a CMV's engine is powered.

(c) An ignition power off cycle refers to the engine power sequence changing from "on to off and then on". This refers to a continuous period when a CMV's engine is not powered.

"Unidentified Driver" refers to the operation of a CMV featuring an ELD without an authenticated driver logging in the system. Functional specifications in this appendix require an ELD to automatically capture driving time under such conditions and attribute such records to the unique "Unidentified Driver account," as specified in section 4.1.5 of this appendix, until the motor carrier and the driver review the records and they are assigned to the true and correct owner, as described in ยง 395.32 of this part.

Throughout this appendix the following notations are used when data elements are referenced.

(a) < . > indicates a parameter an ELD must track. For example refers to the unique <ELD username> or identifier specified during the creation of an ELD account with the requirements set forth in section 7.18 of this appendix.
