
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 395 - HOURS OF SERVICE OF DRIVERS
###### Subpart B - Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
####### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 395 - Functional Specifications for All Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
######## i.e.

An ELD must support a user account structure that separates drivers and motor carrier's support personnel (non-drivers).

(a) Each user of the ELD must have a valid active account on the ELD with a unique identifier assigned by the motor carrier.

(b) Each driver account must require the entry of the driver's license number and the State or jurisdiction that issued the driver's license into the ELD during the account creation process. The driver account must securely store this information on the ELD.

(c) An ELD must not allow creation of more than one driver account associated with a driver's license for a given motor carrier.

(d) A driver account must not have administrative rights to create new accounts on the ELD.

(e) A support personnel account must not allow recording of ELD data for its account holder.

(f) An ELD must reserve a unique driver account for recording events during non-authenticated operation of a CMV. This appendix will refer to this account as the "unidentified driver account."

(a) An ELD must provide secure access to data recorded and stored on the system by requiring user authentication during system login.

(b) Driver accounts must only have access to data associated with that driver, protecting the authenticity and confidentiality of the collected information.

(a) An ELD must be capable of separately recording and retaining ELD data for each individual driver using the ELD.

(b) An ELD must provide for and require concurrent authentication for team drivers.

(c) If more than one ELD unit is used to record a driver's electronic records within a motor carrier's operation, the ELD in the vehicle the driver is operating most recently must be able to produce a complete ELD report for that driver, on demand, for the current 24-hour period and the previous 7 consecutive days.

(a) An ELD must associate all non-authenticated operation of a CMV with a single ELD account labeled unidentified driver.

(b) If a driver does not log onto the ELD, as soon as the vehicle is in motion, the ELD must:

(1) Provide a visual or visual and audible warning reminding the driver to stop and log in to the ELD;

(2) Record accumulated driving and on-duty, not-driving, time in accordance with the ELD defaults described in section 4.4.1 of this appendix under the unidentified driver profile; and

(3) Not allow entry of any information into the ELD other than a response to the login prompt.

(a) An ELD must be integrally synchronized with the engine of the CMV. Engine synchronization for purposes of ELD compliance means the monitoring of the vehicle's engine operation to automatically capture the engine's power status, vehicle's motion status, miles driven value, and engine hours value when the CMV's engine is powered.

(b) An ELD used while operating a CMV that is a model year 2000 or later model year, as indicated by the vehicle identification number (VIN), that has an engine electronic control module (ECM) must establish a link to the engine ECM when the CMV's engine is powered and receive automatically the engine's power status, vehicle's motion status, miles driven value, and engine hours value through the serial or Control Area Network communication protocols supported by the engine ECM or the vehicle's databus. If the vehicle does not have an ECM, an ELD may use alternative sources to obtain or estimate these vehicle parameters with the listed accuracy requirements under section 4.3.1 of this appendix.

An ELD must be powered and become fully functional within 1 minute of the vehicle's engine receiving power and must remain powered for as long as the vehicle's engine stays powered.

(a) An ELD must automatically determine whether a CMV is in motion or stopped by comparing the vehicle speed information with respect to a set speed threshold as follows:

(1) Once the vehicle speed exceeds the set speed threshold, it must be considered in motion.

(2) Once in motion, the vehicle must be considered in motion until its speed falls to 0 miles per hour and stays at 0 miles per hour for 3 consecutive seconds. Then, the vehicle will be considered stopped.

(3) An ELD's set speed threshold for determination of the in-motion state for the purpose of this section must not be configurable to greater than 5 miles per hour.

(b) If an ELD is required to have a link to the vehicle's engine ECM, vehicle speed information must be acquired from the engine ECM or the vehicle's databus. Otherwise, vehicle speed information must be acquired using an independent source apart from the positioning services described under section 4.3.1.6 of this appendix and must be accurate within +/-3 miles per hour of the CMV's true ground speed for purposes of determining the in-motion state for the CMV.

(a) An ELD must monitor vehicle miles as accumulated by a CMV over the course of an ignition power on cycle (accumulated vehicle miles) and over the course of CMV's operation (total vehicle miles). Vehicle miles information must use or must be converted to units of whole miles.

(b) If the ELD is required to have a link to the vehicle's engine ECM as specified in section 4.2 of this appendix:

(1) The ELD must monitor the odometer message broadcast on the engine ECM or the vehicle's databus and use it to log total vehicle miles information; and

(2) The ELD must use the odometer message to determine accumulated vehicle miles since engine's last power on instance.

(c) If the ELD is not required to have a link to the vehicle's engine ECM as specified in section 4.2 of this appendix, the accumulated vehicle miles indication must be obtained or estimated from a source that is accurate to within +/-10% of miles accumulated by the CMV over a 24-hour period as indicated on the vehicle's odometer display.

(a) An ELD must monitor engine hours of the CMV over the course of an ignition power on cycle (elapsed engine hours) and over the course of the total engine hours of the CMV's operation. Engine hours must use or must be converted to hours in intervals of a tenth of an hour.

(b) If an ELD is required to have a link to the vehicle's engine ECM, the ELD must monitor the total engine hours message broadcast on the engine ECM or the vehicle's databus and use it to log total engine hours information. Otherwise, engine hours must be obtained or estimated from a source that monitors the ignition power of the CMV and must be accurate within +/-0.1 hour of the engine's total operation within a given ignition power on cycle.

(a) The ELD must obtain and record the date and time information automatically without allowing any external input or interference from a motor carrier, driver, or any other person.

(b) The ELD time must be synchronized to Coordinated Universal Time (UCT) and the absolute deviation from UCT must not exceed 10 minutes at any point in time.

(a) An ELD must determine automatically the position of the CMV in standard latitude/longitude coordinates with the accuracy and availability requirements of this section.

(b) The ELD must obtain and record this information without allowing any external input or interference from a motor carrier, driver, or any other person.

(c) CMV position measurement must be accurate to +/-0.5 mile of absolute position of the CMV when an ELD measures a valid latitude/longitude coordinate value.
