
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 395 - HOURS OF SERVICE OF DRIVERS
###### Subpart B - Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
####### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 395 - Functional Specifications for All Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
######## e.g.,

(a) An ELD must provide a means for a driver to enter information pertaining to the driver's ELD records manually,CMV power unit number, as specified in section 7.4 of this appendix; trailer number(s), as specified in section 7.42; and shipping document number, as specified in section 7.39.

(b) If the motor carrier populates these fields automatically, the ELD must provide means for the driver to review such information and make corrections as necessary.

(a) An ELD must provide a means for the authenticated driver to select a driver's duty status.

(b) The ELD must use the ELD duty status categories listed in Table 1 of this appendix.

(a) An ELD must provide the means for a driver to indicate the beginning and end of a period when the driver may use the CMV for authorized personal use or for performing yard moves. The ELD must acquire this status in a standard format from the category list in Table 2 of this appendix. This list must be supported independent of the duty status categories described in section 4.3.2.2.1 of this appendix.

(b) An ELD must allow a driver to select only categories that a motor carrier enables by configuration for that driver, as described in section 4.3.3.1.1 of this appendix.

(c) An ELD must only allow one category to be selected at any given time and use the latest selection by the driver.

(d) The ELD must prompt the driver to enter an annotation upon selection of a category from Table 2 of this appendix and record the driver's entry.

(e) A driver's indication of special driving situation must reset to none if the ELD or CMV's engine goes through a power off cycle (ELD or CMV's engine turns off and then on) except if the driver has indicated authorized personal use of CMV. If the driver has indicated authorized personal use of the CMV, the ELD must require confirmation of continuation of the authorized personal use of CMV condition by the driver. If not confirmed by the driver and the vehicle is in motion, the ELD must default to none.

(a) An ELD must include a function whereby a driver can certify the driver's records at the end of a 24-hour period.

(1) This function, when selected, must display a statement that reads "I hereby certify that my data entries and my record of duty status for this 24-hour period are true and correct."

(2) An ELD must prompt the driver to select "Agree" or "Not ready." An ELD must record the driver's affirmative selection of "Agree" as an event.

(b) An ELD must only allow the authenticated driver to certify records associated with that driver.

(c) If any edits are necessary after the driver certifies the records for a given 24-hour period, the ELD must require and prompt the driver to re-certify the updated records.

(d) If there are any past records on the ELD (excluding the current 24-hour period) that require certification or re-certification by the driver, the ELD must indicate the required driver action on the ELD's display and prompt the driver to take the necessary action during the login and logout processes.

(a) An ELD must provide a standardized single-step driver interface for compilation of driver's ELD records and initiation of the data transfer to authorized safety officials when requested during a roadside inspection.

(b) The ELD must input the data transfer request from the driver, require confirmation, present and request selection of the supported data transfer options by the ELD, and prompt for entry of the output file comment as specified in section 4.3.2.5 of this appendix. Upon confirmation, the ELD must generate the compliant output file and perform the data transfer.

(c) The supported single-step data transfer initiation mechanism (such as a switch or an icon on a touch-screen display) must be clearly marked and visible to the driver when the vehicle is stopped.

An ELD must accommodate the entry of an output file comment up to 60 characters long. If an authorized safety official provides a key phrase or code during an inspection to be included in the output file comment, it must be entered and embedded in the electronic ELD records in the exchanged dataset as specified in section 4.8.2.1.1 of this appendix. The default value for the output file comment must be blank. This output file comment must be used only for the creation of the related data files for the intended time, place, and ELD user.

(a) An ELD must allow a driver to add annotations in text format to recorded, entered, or edited ELD events.

(b) The ELD must require annotations to be 4 characters or longer, including embedded spaces if driver annotation is required and driver is prompted by the ELD.

(a) An ELD must allow manual entry of a CMV's location by the driver in text format in support of the driver edit requirements described in section 4.3.2.8 of this appendix.

(b) The driver's manual location entry must be available as an option to a driver only when prompted by the ELD under allowed conditions as described in section 4.6.1.4 of this appendix.

(c) A manual location entry must show "M" in the latitude/longitude coordinates fields in ELD records.

(a) An ELD must provide a mechanism for a driver to review, edit, and annotate the driver's ELD records when a notation of errors or omissions is necessary or enter the driver's missing ELD records subject to the requirements specified in this section.

(b) An ELD must not permit alteration or erasure of the original information collected concerning the driver's ELD records or alteration of the source data streams used to provide that information.

(a) If a driver edits or annotates an ELD record or enters missing information, the act must not overwrite the original record.

(b) The ELD must use the process outlined in section 4.4.4.2 of this appendix to configure required event attributes to track the edit history of records.

(c) Driver edits must be accompanied by an annotation. The ELD must prompt the driver to annotate edits.

(a) An ELD must not allow or require the editing or manual entry of records with the following event types, as described in section 7.25 of this appendix:

(b) An ELD must not allow automatically recorded driving time to be shortened or the ELD username associated with an ELD record to be edited or reassigned, except under the following circumstances:
