
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 395 - HOURS OF SERVICE OF DRIVERS
###### Subpart B - Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
####### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 395 - Functional Specifications for All Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
######## i.e.,

(f) During periods of a driver's indication of personal use of the CMV, the measurement reporting precision requirement is reduced to tenths of a degree (a decimal point and single decimal place) as further specified in section 4.7.3 of this appendix.

(g) An ELD must be able to acquire a valid position measurement at least once every 5 miles of driving; however, the ELD records CMV location information only during ELD events as specified in section 4.5.1 of this appendix.

The vehicle identification number (VIN) for the power unit of a CMV must be automatically obtained and recorded if it is available on the vehicle databus.

(a) An ELD must prompt the driver to input information into the ELD only when the CMV is stationary and driver's duty status is not on-duty driving, except for the condition specified in section 4.4.1.2 of this appendix.

(b) If the driver's duty status is driving, an ELD must only allow the driver who is operating the CMV to change the driver's duty status to another duty status.

(c) A stopped vehicle must maintain zero (0) miles per hour speed to be considered stationary for purposes of information entry into an ELD.

(d) An ELD must allow an authenticated co-driver who is not driving, but who has logged into the ELD prior to the vehicle being in motion, to make entries over his or her own records when the vehicle is in motion. The ELD must not allow co-drivers to switch driving roles when the vehicle is in motion.
