
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 395 - HOURS OF SERVICE OF DRIVERS
###### Subpart B - Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
####### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 395 - Functional Specifications for All Electronic Logging Devices (ELDs)
######## Total

(8) <{} Engine Hours> as described in section 7.19.

An ELD must have the capability to monitor its compliance with the technical requirements of this section for the detectable malfunctions and data inconsistencies listed in Table 4 of this appendix and must keep records of its malfunction and data diagnostic event detection.

(a) An ELD must monitor data it receives from the engine ECM or alternative sources as allowed in sections 4.3.1.1-4.3.1.4 of this appendix, its onboard sensors, and data record history to identify instances when it may not have complied with the power requirements specified in section 4.3.1.1, in which case, the ELD must record a power data diagnostics event for the corresponding driver(s), or under the unidentified driver profile if no drivers were authenticated at the time of detection.

(b) An ELD must set a power compliance malfunction if the power data diagnostics event described in paragraph 4.6.1.1(a) of this appendix indicates an aggregated in-motion driving time understatement of 30 minutes or more on the ELD over a 24-hour period across all driver profiles, including the unidentified driver profile.

(a) An ELD must monitor the data it receives from the engine ECM or alternative sources as allowed in sections 4.3.1.1-4.3.1.4 of this appendix, its onboard sensors, and data record history to identify instances and durations of its non-compliance with the ELD engine synchronization requirement specified in section 4.2.

(b) An ELD required to establish a link to the engine ECM as described in section 4.2 must monitor its connectivity to the engine ECM and its ability to retrieve the vehicle parameters described under section 4.3.1 of this appendix and must record an engine-synchronization data diagnostics event when it no longer can acquire updated values for the ELD parameters required for records within 5 seconds of the need.

(c) An ELD must set an engine synchronization compliance malfunction if connectivity to any of the required data sources specified in section 4.3.1 of this appendix is lost for more than 30 minutes during a 24-hour period aggregated across all driver profiles, including the unidentified driver profile.

The ELD must periodically cross-check its compliance with the requirement specified in section 4.3.1.5 of this appendix with respect to an accurate external UTC source and must record a timing compliance malfunction when it can no longer meet the underlying compliance requirement.

(a) An ELD must continually monitor the availability of valid position measurements meeting the listed accuracy requirements in section 4.3.1.6 of this appendix and must track the distance and elapsed time from the last valid measurement point.

(b) ELD records requiring location information must use the last valid position measurement and include the latitude/longitude coordinates and distance traveled, in miles, since the last valid position measurement.

(c) An ELD must monitor elapsed time during periods when the ELD fails to acquire a valid position measurement within 5 miles of the CMV's movement. When such elapsed time exceeds a cumulative 60 minutes over a 24 hour period, the ELD must set and record a positioning compliance malfunction.

(d) If a new ELD event must be recorded at an instance when the ELD had failed to acquire a valid position measurement within the most recent elapsed 5 miles of driving, but the ELD has not yet set a positioning compliance malfunction, the ELD must record the character "X" in both the latitude and longitude fields, unless location is entered manually by the driver, in which case it must log the character "M" instead. Under the circumstances listed in this paragraph, if the ELD event is due to a change in duty status for the driver, the ELD must prompt the driver to enter location manually in accordance with section 4.3.2.7 of this appendix. If the driver does not enter the location information and the vehicle is in motion, the ELD must record a missing required data element data diagnostic event for the driver.

(e) If a new ELD event must be recorded at an instance when the ELD has set a positioning compliance malfunction, the ELD must record the character "E" in both the latitude and longitude fields regardless of whether the driver is prompted and manually enters location information.

(a) An ELD must monitor its storage capacity and integrity and must detect a data recording compliance malfunction if it can no longer record or retain required events or retrieve recorded logs that are not otherwise catalogued remotely by the motor carrier.

(b) An ELD must monitor the completeness of the ELD event record information in relation to the required data elements for each event type and must record a missing data elements data diagnostics event for the driver if any required field is missing at the time of recording.

(a) When there are ELD records involving driving time logged on an ELD under the unidentified driver profile, the ELD must prompt the driver(s) logging in with a warning indicating the existence of new unassigned driving time.

(b) The ELD must provide a mechanism for the driver to review and either acknowledge the assignment of one or more of the unidentified driver records attributable to the driver under the authenticated driver's profile as described in paragraph 4.3.2.8.2(b)(1) of this appendix or indicate that these records are not attributable to the driver.

(c) If more than 30 minutes of driving in a 24-hour period show unidentified driver on the ELD, the ELD must detect and record an unidentified driving records data diagnostic event and the data diagnostic indicator must be turned on for all drivers logged in to that ELD for the current 24-hour period and the following 7 days.

(d) An unidentified driving records data diagnostic event can be cleared by the ELD when driving time logged under the unidentified driver profile for the current 24-hour period and the previous 7 consecutive days drops to 15 minutes or less.

(a) An ELD must implement in-service monitoring functions to verify that the data transfer mechanism(s) described in section 4.9.1 of this appendix are continuing to function properly. An ELD must verify this functionality at least once every 7 days. These monitoring functions may be automatic or may involve manual steps for a driver.

(b) If the monitoring mechanism fails to confirm proper in-service operation of the data transfer mechanism(s), an ELD must record a data transfer data diagnostic event and enter an unconfirmed data transfer mode.

(c) After an ELD records a data transfer data diagnostic event, the ELD must increase the frequency of the monitoring function to check at least once every 24-hour period. If the ELD stays in the unconfirmed data transfer mode following the next three consecutive monitoring checks, the ELD must detect a data transfer compliance malfunction.

In addition to the required monitoring schemes described in sections 4.6.1.1-4.6.1.7 of this appendix, the ELD provider may implement additional, technology-specific malfunction and data diagnostic detection schemes and may use the ELD's malfunction status indicator and data diagnostic status indicator (described in sections 4.6.2.1 and 4.6.3.1) to communicate the ELD's malfunction or non-compliant state to the operator(s) of the ELD.

ELD malfunctions affect the integrity of the device and its compliance; therefore, active malfunctions must be indicated to all drivers who may use that ELD. An ELD must provide a recognizable visual indicator, and may provide an audible signal, to the operator as to its malfunction status.

(a) An ELD must display a single visual malfunction indicator for all drivers using the ELD on the ELD's display or on a stand-alone indicator. The visual signal must be visible to the driver when the driver is seated in the normal driving position.

(b) The ELD malfunction indicator must be clearly illuminated when there is an active malfunction on the ELD.

(c) The malfunction status must be continuously communicated to the driver when the ELD is powered.

ELD data diagnostic status affects only the authenticated user; therefore, an ELD must only indicate the active data diagnostics status applicable to the driver logged into the ELD. An ELD must provide a recognizable visual indicator, and may provide an audible signal, to the driver as to its data diagnostics status.

(a) An ELD must display a single visual data diagnostics indicator, apart from the visual malfunction indicator described in section 4.6.2.1 of this appendix, to communicate visually the existence of active data diagnostics events for the applicable driver.

(b) The visual signal must be visible to the driver when the driver is seated in the normal driving position.

(a) If a driver selects the sleeper-berth state for the driver's record of duty status, and no co-driver has logged into the ELD as on-duty driving, and if the ELD outputs audible signals, the ELD must either:

(1) Allow the driver to mute the ELD's volume or turn off the ELD's audible output, or

(2) Automatically mute the ELD's volume or turn off the ELD's audible output.

(b) For purposes of this section, if an ELD operates in combination with another device or other hardware or software technology that is not separate from the ELD, the volume controls required herein apply to the combined device or technology.

(a) An ELD must provide a mechanism for a driver to obtain a copy of the driver's own ELD records on demand, in either an electronic or printout format compliant with inspection standards outlined in section 4.8.2.1 of this appendix.

(b) The process must not require a driver to go through the motor carrier to obtain copies of the driver's own ELD records if driver's records reside on or are accessible directly by the ELD unit used by the driver.

(c) If an ELD meets the requirements of this section by making data files available to the driver, it must also provide a utility function for the driver to display the data on a computer, at a minimum, as specified in § 395.8(g).

(a) An ELD must record the events listed in section 4.5.1 of this appendix under all circumstances. However, when a driver indicates that the driver is temporarily using the CMV for an authorized personal purpose, a subset of the recorded elements must either be omitted in the records or recorded at a lower precision level, as described in further detail below. The driver indicates this intent by setting the driver's duty status to off-duty, as described in section 4.3.2.2.1, and indicating authorized personal use of CMV as described in section 4.3.2.2.2.

(b) During a period when a driver indicates authorized personal use of CMV, the ELD must:

(1) Record all new ELD events with latitude/longitude coordinates information rounded to a single decimal place resolution; and

(2) Omit recording vehicle miles and engine hours fields in new ELD logs by leaving them blank, except for events corresponding to a CMV's engine power-up and shut-down activity as described in section 4.5.1.6 of this appendix.

(c) A driver's indication that the CMV is being operated for authorized personal purposes may span more than one CMV ignition on cycle if the driver proactively confirms continuation of the personal use condition prior to placing the vehicle in motion when the ELD prompts the driver at the beginning of the new ignition power on cycle.

The ELD must be able to generate a compliant report as specified in this section, either as a printout or on a display.

Print paper must be able to accommodate the graph grid specifications as listed in section 4.8.1.3 of this appendix.

(a) This section does not apply if an ELD produces a printout for use at a roadside inspection.

(b) An ELD must be designed so that its display may be reasonably viewed by an authorized safety official without entering the commercial motor vehicle. For example, the display may be untethered from its mount or connected in a manner that would allow it to be passed outside of the vehicle for a reasonable distance.

(a) The printout and display must show reports for the inspected driver's profile and the unidentified driver profile separately. If there are no unidentified driver records existing on the ELD for the current 24-hour period and for any of the previous 7 consecutive days, an ELD does not need to print or display unidentified driver records for the authorized safety official. Otherwise, both reports must be printed or displayed and provided to the authorized safety official.

(b) The printout and display must show the following information for the current 24-hour period and each of the previous 7 consecutive days: (Items in < . > are data elements.)

Printout report must only list up to 10 most recent ELD malfunctions and up to 10 most recent data diagnostics events within the time period for which the report is generated.

(c) The printout and display must show a graph-grid consistent with § 395.8(g) showing each change of duty status.

(1) On the printout, the graph-grid for each day's RODS must be at least 6 inches by 1.5 inches in size.

(2) The graph-grid must overlay periods of driver's indications of authorized personal use of CMV and yard moves using a different style line (such as dashed or dotted line) or shading. The appropriate abbreviation must also be indicated on the graph-grid.

An ELD must have the capability to generate a consistent electronic file output compliant with the format described herein to facilitate the transfer, processing, and standardized display of ELD data sets on the authorized safety officials' computing environments.

(a) Regardless of the particular database architecture used for recording the ELD events in electronic format, the ELD must produce a standard ELD data output file for transfer purposes, which must be generated according to the standard specified in this section.

(b) Data output must be provided in a single comma-delimited file outlined in this section using American National Standard Code for Information Exchange (ASCII) character sets meeting the standards of ANSI INCITS 4-1986 (R2012) (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38). It must include:

(1) A header segment, which specifies current or non-varying elements of an ELD file; and

(2) Variable length comma-delimited segments for the drivers, vehicles, ELD events, ELD malfunction and data diagnostics records, ELD login and logout activity, and unidentified driver records.

(3) Any field value that may contain a comma (",") or a carriage return (<CR>) must be replaced with a semicolon (`;') before generating the compliant CSV output file.

This segment must include the following data elements and format:

This segment must list all drivers and co-drivers with driving time records on the most recent CMV operated by the inspected driver and motor carrier's support personnel who requested edits within the time period for which this file is generated. The list must be in chronological order with most recent user of the ELD on top, and include the driver being inspected, the co-driver, and the unidentified driver profile. This segment has a variable number of rows depending on the number of profiles with activity over the time period for which this file is generated. This section must start with the following title:

Each subsequent row must have the following data elements:

This segment must list each CMV that the current driver operated and that has been recorded on the driver's ELD records within the time period for which this file is generated. The list must be rank ordered in accordance with the time of CMV operation with the most recent CMV being on top. This segment has a variable number of rows depending on the number of CMVs operated by the driver over the time period for which this file is generated. This section must start with the following title:

Each subsequent row must have the following data elements:

This segment must list ELD event records tagged with event types 1 (a change in duty status as described in section 4.5.1.1 of this appendix), 2 (an intermediate log as described in section 4.5.1.2), and 3 (a change in driver's indication of conditions impacting driving time recording as described in section 4.5.1.3). The segment must list all event record status types and all event record origins for the driver, rank ordered with the most current log on top in accordance with the date and time fields of the record. This segment has a variable number of rows depending on the number of ELD events recorded for the driver over the time period for which this file is generated. This section must start with the following title:

Each subsequent row must have the following data elements:

This segment must list only the elements of the ELD event list created in section 4.8.2.1.4 of this appendix that have an annotation, comment, or a manual entry of location description by the driver. This segment has a variable number of rows depending on the number of ELD events under section 4.8.2.1.4 that feature a comment, annotation, or manual location entry by the driver. This section must start with the following title:

Each subsequent row must have the following data elements:

This segment must list ELD event records with event type 4 (driver's certification of own records as described in section 4.5.1.4 of this appendix) for the inspected driver for the time period for which this file is generated. It must be rank ordered with the most current record on top. This segment has a variable number of rows depending on the number of certification and re-certification actions the authenticated driver may have executed on the ELD over the time period for which this file is generated. This section must start with the following title:

Each subsequent row must have the following data elements:

This segment must list all malfunctions that have occurred on this ELD during the time period for which this file is generated. It must list diagnostic event records related to the driver being inspected, rank ordered with the most current record on top. This segment has a variable number of rows depending on the number of ELD malfunctions and ELD diagnostic event records recorded and relevant to the inspected driver over the time period for which this file is generated. This section must start with the following title:

Each subsequent row must have the following data elements:

This segment must list the login and logout activity on the ELD (ELD events with event type 5 (A driver's login/logout activity)) for the inspected driver for the time period for which this file is generated. It must be rank ordered with the most recent activity on top. This section must start with the following title:

Each subsequent row must have the following data elements:

This segment must list the logs created when a CMV's engine is powered up and shut down (ELD events with event type 6 (CMV's engine power up/shut down)) for the time period for which this file is generated. It must be rank ordered with the latest activity on top. This section must start with the following title:

This segment must list the ELD event records for the Unidentified Driver profile, rank ordered with most current log on top in accordance with the date and time fields of the logs. This segment has a variable number of rows depending on the number of Unidentified Driver ELD records recorded over the time period for which this file is generated. This section must start with the following title:

Each subsequent row must have the following data elements:

This segment lists the file data check value as specified in section 4.4.5.3 of this appendix. This part includes a single line as follows:

If the ELD output is saved in a file for transfer or maintenance purposes, it must follow the 25 character-long filename standard below:

(a) The first five position characters of the filename must correspond to the first five letters of the last name of the driver for whom the file is compiled. If the last name of the driver is shorter than five characters, remaining positions must use the character "_" [underscore] as a substitute character. For example, if the last name of the driver is "Lee", the first five characters of the output file must feature "Lee__ __".

(b) The sixth and seventh position characters of the filename must correspond to the last two digits of the driver's license number for the driver for whom the file is compiled.

(c) The eighth and ninth position characters of the filename must correspond to the sum of all individual numeric digits in the driver's license number for the driver for whom the file is compiled. The result must be represented in two-digit format. If the sum value exceeds 99, use the last two digits of the result. For example, if the result equals "113", use "13". If the result is less than 10, use 0 as the first digit. For example, if the result equals "5", use "05".

(d) The tenth through fifteenth position characters of the filename must correspond to the date the file is created. The result must be represented in six digit format "MMDDYY" where "MM" represents the month, ""DD" represents the day, and "YY" represents the last two digits of the year. For example, February 5, 2013, must be represented as "020513".

(e) The sixteenth position character of the filename must be a hyphen "-".

(f) The seventeenth through twenty-fifth position characters of the filename must, by default, be "000000000" but each of these nine digits can be freely configured by the motor carrier or the ELD provider to be a number between 0 and 9 or a character between A and Z to be able to produce distinct files-if or when necessary-that may otherwise be identical in filename as per the convention proposed in this section. ELD providers or motor carriers do not need to disclose details of conventions they may use for configuring the seventeenth through twenty-fifth digits of the filename.

An ELD must be able to present the captured ELD records of a driver in the standard electronic format as described below, and transfer the data file to an authorized safety official, on demand, for inspection purposes.

(a) On demand during a roadside safety inspection, an ELD must produce ELD records for the current 24-hour period and the previous 7 consecutive days in electronic format, in the standard data format described in section 4.8.2.1 of this appendix.

(b) When a driver uses the single-step driver interface, as described in section 4.3.2.4 of this appendix, to indicate that the ELD compile and transfer the driver's ELD records to authorized safety officials, the ELD must transfer the generated ELD data output to the computing environment used by authorized safety officials via the standards referenced in this section. To meet roadside electronic data transfer requirements, an ELD must do at least one of the following:

(1) Option 1-Telematics transfer methods. Transfer the electronic data using both:

(i) Wireless Web services, and

(ii) Email, or

(2) Option 2-Local transfer methods. Transfer the electronic data using both:

(i) USB2 (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38), and

(ii) Bluetooth (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38).

(c) The ELD must provide an ELD record for the current 24-hour period and the previous 7 consecutive days as described in section 4.8.1.3 either on a display or on a printout.

(d) An ELD must support one of the two options for roadside data transfer in paragraph (b) of this section, and must certify proper operation of each element under that option. An authorized safety official will specify which transfer mechanism the official will use within the certified transfer mechanisms of an ELD.

(a) An ELD must be capable of retaining copies of electronic ELD records for a period of at least 6 months from the date of receipt.

(b) An ELD must produce, on demand, a data file or a series of data files of ELD records for a subset of its drivers, a subset of its vehicles, and for a subset of the 6-month record retention period, to be specified by an authorized safety official, in an electronic format standard described in section 4.8.2.1 of this appendix or, if the motor carrier has multiple offices or terminals, within the time permitted under § 390.29.

(c) At a minimum, an ELD must be able to transfer the ELD records electronically by one of the following transfer mechanisms:

(1) Web Services as specified in section 4.10.1.1 of this appendix (but not necessarily wirelessly), and Email as specified 4.10.1.2 (but not necessarily wirelessly); or

(2) USB 2.0 as specified in section 4.10.1.3 of this appendix and Bluetooth, as specified in section 4.10.1.4 (both incorporated by reference, see § 395.38).

ELDs must transmit ELD records electronically in accordance with the file format specified in section 4.8.2.1 of this appendix and must be capable of a one-way transfer of these records to authorized safety officials upon request as specified in section 4.9.

For each type of data transfer mechanism, an ELD must follow the specifications in this section.

(a) Transfer of ELD data to FMCSA via Web Services must follow the following standards:

(1) Web Services Description Language (WSDL) 1.1.

(2) Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) 1.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38).

(3) Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 5th Edition.

(b) If an ELD provider plans to use Web Services, upon ELD provider registration as described in section 5.1 of this appendix,

(1) FMCSA will provide formatting files necessary to convert the ELD file into an XML format and upload the data to the FMCSA servers. These files include FMCSA's Rules of Behavior, XML Schema, WSDL file, Interface Control Document (ICD), and the ELD Web Services Development Handbook, and

(2) ELD Providers must obtain a Public/Private Key pair compliant with the NIST SP 800-32, Introduction to Public Key Technology and the Federal PKI Infrastructure (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38), and submit the public key with their registration.

(3) ELD Providers will be required to complete a test procedure to ensure their data is properly formatted before they can begin submitting driver's ELD data to the FMCSA server.

(c) ELD data transmission must be accomplished in a way that protects the privacy of the driver(s).

(d) At roadside, if both the vehicle operator and law enforcement have an available data connection, the vehicle operator will initiate the transfer of ELD data to an authorized safety official. In some cases, an ELD may be capable of converting the ELD file to an XML format using an FMCSA-provided schema and upload it using information provided in the WSDL file using SOAP via RFC 7230, RFC 7231, and RFC 5246, Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38).

(a) The ELD must attach a file to an email message to be sent using RFC 5321 Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38), to a specific email address, which will be shared with the ELD providers during the technology registration process.

(b) The file must have the format described in section 4.8.2.1 of this appendix and must be encrypted using the Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions as described in RFC 5751 (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38), and the RSA algorithm as described in RFC 4056 (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38), with the FMCSA public key compliant with NIST SP 800-32 (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38) to be provided to the ELD provider at the time of registration. The content must be encrypted using AESin FIPS Publication 197 (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38), and RFC 3565 (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38).

(c) The email must be formatted using the RFC 5322 Internet Message Format (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38), as follows:

(d) A message confirming receipt of the ELD file will be sent to the address specified in the email. The filename must follow the convention specified in section 4.8.2.2 of this appendix.

(a) ELDs certified for the USB data transfer mechanism must be capable of transferring ELD records using the Universal Serial Bus Specification (Revision 2.0) (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38).

(b) Each ELD technology must implement a single USB-compliant interface with the necessary adaptors for a Type A connector. The USB interface must implement the Mass Storage class (08h) for driverless operation, to comply with IEEE standard 1667-2009, (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38).

(c) The ELD must be capable of providing power to a standard USB-compatible drive.

(d) An ELD must re-authenticate the driver prior to saving the driver's ELD file to an external device.

(e) On initiation by an authenticated driver, an ELD must be capable of saving ELD file(s) to USB-compatible drives (AES, in FIPS Publication 197, incorporated by reference, see § 395.38) that are provided by authorized safety officials during an inspection. Prior to initiating this action, ELDs must be capable of reading a text file from an authorized safety officials' drive and verifying it against a file provided to ELD providers who have registered their technologies as described in section 5.1 of this appendix.

(a) Bluetooth SIG Specification of the Bluetooth System covering core package version 2.1 + EDR (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38) must be followed. ELDs using this standard must be capable of displaying a Personal Identification Number generated by the Bluetooth application profile for bonding with other devices(incorporated by reference, see § 395.38).

(b) Upon request of an authorized official, the ELD must become discoverable by the authorized safety officials' Bluetooth-enabled computing platform, and generate a random code, which the driver must share with the official (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38).

(c) The ELD must connect to the roadside authorized safety officials' technology via wireless personal area network and transmit the required data via Web Services as described in section 4.10.1.1 of this appendix.

Regardless of the roadside transmission option supported by an ELD, ELD records are to be retained and must be able to transmit enforcement-specified historical data for their drivers using one of the methods specified under section 4.9.2 of this appendix.

(a) Web services option must follow the specifications described under section 4.10.1.1 of this appendix.

(b) The email option must follow the specifications described under section 4.10.1.2 of this appendix.

(c) The USB option must follow the specifications of Universal Serial Bus Specification, revision 2.0 (incorporated by reference, see § 395.38) and described in section 4.10.1.3 of this appendix.

(d) Bluetooth must follow the specifications incorporated by reference (see § 395.38) and described in section 4.10.1.4 of this appendix.

As described in § 395.22(a) of this part, motor carriers must only use ELDs that are listed on the FMCSA Web site. An ELD provider must register with FMCSA and certify each ELD model and version for that ELD to be listed on this Web site.

(a) An ELD provider developing an ELD technology must register online at a secure FMCSA Web site where the ELD provider can securely certify that its ELD is compliant with this appendix.

(b) Provider's registration must include the following information:

(1) Company name of the technology provider/manufacturer.

(2) Name of an individual authorized by the provider to verify that the ELD is compliant with this appendix and to certify it under section 5.2 of this appendix.

(3) Address of the registrant.

(4) Email address of the registrant.

(5) Telephone number of the registrant.

The ELD provider must keep the information in section 5.1.1(b) of this appendix current through FMCSA's Web site.

FMCSA will provide a unique ELD registration ID, authentication key(s), authentication file(s), and formatting and configuration details required in this appendix to registered providers during the registration process.

A registered ELD provider must certify that each ELD model and version has been sufficiently tested to meet the functional requirements included in this appendix under the conditions in which the ELD would be used.

(a) An ELD provider registered online as described in section 5.1.1 of this appendix must disclose the information in paragraph (b) of this section about each ELD model and version and certify that the particular ELD is compliant with the requirements of this appendix.

(b) The online process will only allow a provider to complete certification if the provider successfully discloses all of the following required information:

(1) Name of the product.

(2) Model number of the product.

(3) Software version of the product.

(4) An ELD identifier, uniquely identifying the certified model and version of the ELD, assigned by the ELD provider in accordance with section 7.15 of this appendix.

(5) Picture and/or screen shot of the product.

(6) User's manual describing how to operate the ELD.

(7) Description of the supported and certified data transfer mechanisms and step-by-step instructions for a driver to produce and transfer the ELD records to an authorized safety official.

(8) Summary description of ELD malfunctions.

(9) Procedure to validate an ELD authentication value as described in section 7.14 of this appendix.

(10) Certifying statement describing how the product was tested to comply with FMCSA regulations.

Paragraph 5.2.1(b)(9) of this appendix requires that the ELD provider identify its authentication process and disclose necessary details for FMCSA systems to independently verify the ELD authentication values included in the dataset of inspected ELD outputs. The authentication value must include a hash component that only uses data elements included in the ELD dataset and datafile. ELD authentication value must meet the requirements specified in section 7.14 of this appendix.

Except for the information listed under paragraphs 5.1.1(b)(2), (4), and (5) and 5.2.1(b)(9) of this appendix, FMCSA will make the information in sections 5.1.1 and 5.2.1 for each certified ELD publicly available on a Web site to allow motor carriers to determine which products have been properly registered and certified as ELDs compliant with this appendix.

FMCSA may remove an ELD model or version from the list of ELDs on the FMCSA Web site in accordance with this section.

FMCSA shall initiate the removal of an ELD model or version from the list of ELDs on the FMCSA Web site by providing the ELD provider written notice stating:

(a) The reasons FMCSA proposes to remove the model or version from the FMCSA list; and

(b) Any corrective action that the ELD provider must take for the ELD model or version to remain on the list.

An ELD provider that receives notice under section 5.4.2 of this appendix may submit a response to FMCSA no later than 30 days after issuance of the notice of proposed removal, explaining:

(a) The reasons why the ELD provider believes the facts relied on by the Agency, in proposing removal, are wrong; or

(b) The action the ELD provider will take to correct the deficiencies that FMCSA identified.

(a) If the ELD provider fails to respond within 30 days of the date of the notice issued under section 5.4.2 of this appendix, the ELD model or version shall be removed from the FMCSA list.

(b) If the ELD provider submits a timely response, FMCSA shall review the response and withdraw the notice of proposed removal, modify the notice of proposed removal, or affirm the notice of proposed removal, and notify the ELD provider in writing of the determination.

(c) Within 60 days of the determination, the ELD provider shall take any action required to comply. If FMCSA determines that the ELD provider failed to timely take the required action within the 60 day period, the ELD model or version shall be removed from the FMCSA list.

(d) FMCSA may request from the ELD provider any information that FMCSA considers necessary to make a determination under this section.

(a) Within 30 days of removal of an ELD model or version from the FMCSA list of certified ELDs under section 5.4.4 of this appendix, the ELD provider may request administrative review.

(b) A request for administrative review must be submitted in writing to FMCSA, ATTN: ELD Removal-Request for Administrative Review. The request must explain the error committed in removing the ELD model or version from the FMCSA list, identify all factual, legal, and procedural issues in dispute, and include any supporting information or documents.

(c) FMCSA may ask the ELD provider to submit additional information or attend a conference to discuss the removal. If the ELD provider does not submit the requested information or attend the scheduled conference, FMCSA may dismiss the request for administrative review.

(d) FMCSA will complete the administrative review and notify the ELD provider of the decision in writing. The decision constitutes a final Agency action.
