
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 33 - TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATION SYSTEM
#### Subpart C - Placement of Rated Orders
##### § 33.37 Use of rated orders.
###### i.e.,

(c) A person may combine DX- and DO-rated orders from one customer or several customers if the items or services covered by each level of priority are identified separately and clearly. If different program identification symbols are indicated on those rated orders of equal priority, the person must use the program identification symbol "T9" (DO-T9 or DX-T9).

(d) Combining rated and unrated orders.

(1) A person may combine rated and unrated order quantities on one purchase order provided that:

(i) The rated quantities are separately and clearly identified; and

(ii) The four elements of a rated order, as required by § 33.32, are included on the order with the statement required in § 33.32(d) modified to read in substance:

This purchase order contains rated order quantities certified for national defense use, and you are required to follow all the provisions of the Transportation Priorities and Allocations System regulations at 49 CFR Part 33 only as it pertains to the rated quantities.

(2) A supplier must accept or reject the rated portion of the purchase order as provided in § 33.33 and give preferential treatment only to the rated quantities as required by this part. This part may not be used to require preferential treatment for the unrated portion of the order.

(3) Any supplier who believes that rated and unrated orders are being combined in a manner contrary to the intent of this part or in a fashion that causes undue or exceptional hardship may submit a request for adjustment or exception under § 33.80.

(e) A person may place a rated order for the minimum commercially procurable quantity even if the quantity needed to fill a rated order is less than that minimum. However, a person must combine rated orders as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if possible, to obtain minimum procurable quantities.

(f) A person is not required to place a priority rating on an order for less than $75,000, or one-half of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (as established in the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) (see FAR section 2.101) or in other authorized acquisition regulatory or management systems), whichever amount is greater, provided that delivery can be obtained in a timely fashion without the use of the priority rating.
