
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 33 - TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATION SYSTEM
#### Subpart D - Special Priorities Assistance
##### ยง 33.40 General provisions.

(a) TPAS is designed to be largely self-executing. However, from time-to-time production or delivery problems will arise. In this event, a person should immediately contact DOT's Defense Production Act Activities Coordinator, Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590, for guidance or assistance. If the problem(s) cannot otherwise be resolved, special priorities assistance should be sought from the Department of Transportation through the Director, Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590. If the Department of Transportation is unable to resolve the problem or to authorize the use of a priority rating and believes additional assistance is warranted, the Department of Transportation may forward the request to another resource agency, as appropriate, for action. Special priorities assistance is a service provided to alleviate problems that do arise.

(b) Special priorities assistance is available for any reason consistent with this part. Generally, special priorities assistance is provided to expedite deliveries, resolve delivery conflicts, place rated orders, locate suppliers, or to verify information supplied by customers and vendors. Special priorities assistance may also be used to request rating authority for items that are not normally eligible for priority treatment.

(c) A request for special priorities assistance or priority rating authority must be submitted on Form OST F 1254 (OMB control number to be inserted in the subsequent final rule) to the Defense Production Act Activities Coordinator, Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590. Form OST F 1254 may be obtained from the Department of Transportation or a Delegate Agency. A sample Form OST F 1254 is attached at Appendix I to this part.
