
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 396 - INSPECTION, REPAIR, AND MAINTENANCE
###### Appendix A to Part 396 - Minimum Periodic Inspection Standards
####### i.e.,

(1) Missing ABS malfunction indicator components (bulb, wiring, etc.).

(2) ABS malfunction indicator that does not illuminate when power is first applied to the ABS controller (ECU) during initial power up.

(3) ABS malfunction indicator that stays illuminated while power is continuously applied to the ABS controller (ECU).

(4) ABS malfunction indicator lamp on a trailer or dolly does not cycle when electrical power is applied (a) only to the vehicle's constant ABS power circuit, or (b) only to the vehicle's stop lamp circuit.

(5) With its brakes released and its ignition switch in the normal run position, power unit does not provide continuous electrical power to the ABS on any air-braked vehicle it is equipped to tow.

(6) Other missing or inoperative ABS components.

Power units manufactured after March 1, 2001, have two ABS malfunction indicators, one for the power unit and one for the units that they tow. Both malfunction indicators are required to be fully functional.

Air-braked vehicles: Subsections (1)-(6) of this section are applicable to tractors with air brakes built on or after March 1, 1997, and all other vehicles with air brakes built on or after March 1, 1998.

Hydraulic-braked vehicles: Subsections (1)-(3) of this section are applicable to vehicles over 10,000 lbs. GVWR with hydraulic brakes built on or after September 1, 1999. Subsection (6) of this section is applicable to vehicles over 10,000 lbs. with hydraulic brakes built on or after March 1, 1999.
