
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter III - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
##### PART 396 - INSPECTION, REPAIR, AND MAINTENANCE
###### Appendix A to Part 396 - Minimum Periodic Inspection Standards
####### Rear Impact Guard.

15.

a. Trailers and semitrailers with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,001 lbs.) or more, manufactured on or after January 26, 1998 (see exceptions in ยง 393.86(a)(1) of this subchapter).

(1) Missing guard.

(2) Guard is not securely attached to trailer, including broken or missing fasteners, any welds or parent metal cracked, or other damage that compromises secure attachment of the guard.

(3) Guard horizontal member does not extend to within 100 mm (4 inches) of each, or extends beyond either, side extremity of the vehicle.

(4) Guard horizontal member is more than 560 mm (22 inches) above the ground.

(5) Guard horizontal member is more than 305 mm (12 inches) forward of the rear extremity of the vehicle.

(6) Guard horizontal member does not have a cross sectional vertical height of at least 100 mm (4 inches) across its entire width.

b. Commercial motor vehicles manufactured after December 31, 1952 (except trailers and semitrailers manufactured on or after January 26, 1998) (see exceptions in ยง 393.86(b)(1) and 393.86(b)(3) of this subchapter).

(1) Missing guard.

(2) Guard is not securely attached to trailer by bolts, welding, or other comparable means.

(3) Guard horizontal member is more than 762 mm (30 inches) above the ground.

(4) Guard horizontal member does not extend to within 457 mm (18 inches) of each side extremity of the vehicle.

(5) Guard horizontal member is more than 610 mm (24 inches) forward of the rear extremity of the vehicle.
