
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 33 - TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATION SYSTEM
#### Subpart H - Adjustments, Exceptions, and Appeals
##### ยง 33.81 Appeals.

(a) Any person who has had a request for adjustment or exception denied by the Defense Production Act Activities Coordinator under ยง 33.80, may appeal to the Department of Transportation's Assistant Secretary for Administration, who shall review and reconsider the denial.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an appeal must be received by the Assistant Secretary for Administration no later than 45 days after receipt of a written notice of denial from the Defense Production Act Activities Coordinator. After this 45-day period, an appeal may be accepted at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary for Administration for good cause shown.

(2) For requests for adjustment or exception involving rated orders placed for the purpose of emergency preparedness, an appeal must be received by the Assistant Secretary for Administration, no later than five (5) days after receipt of a written notice of denial from the Defense Production Act Activities Coordinator. Contract performance under the order shall not be stayed pending resolution of the appeal.

(c) Each appeal must be in writing and contain a complete statement of all the facts and circumstances related to the action appealed from, all necessary documents, and a full and precise statement of the reasons the decision should be modified or reversed.

(d) In addition to the written materials submitted in support of an appeal, an appellant may request, in writing, an opportunity for an informal hearing. This request may be granted or denied at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary for Administration.

(e) When a hearing is granted, the Assistant Secretary for Administration may designate an employee of the Office of the Senior Procurement Executive to conduct the hearing and to prepare a report. The hearing officer shall determine all procedural questions and impose such time or other limitations deemed reasonable. In the event that the hearing officer decides that a printed transcript is necessary, all expenses shall be borne by the appellant.

(f) When determining an appeal, the Assistant Secretary for Administration may consider all information submitted during the appeal as well as any recommendations, reports, or other relevant information and documents available to the Department of Transportation, or consult with any other persons or groups.

(g) The submission of an appeal under this section shall not relieve any person from the obligation of complying with the provision of this part or official action in question while the appeal is being considered unless such relief is granted in writing by the Assistant Secretary for Administration.

(h) The decision of the Assistant Secretary for Administration shall be made within five (5) working days after receipt of the appeal, or within one (1) working day for appeals pertaining to emergency preparedness and shall be the final administrative action. It shall be issued to the appellant in writing with a statement of the reasons for the decision.
