
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter IV - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter B - Safety Approval of Cargo Containers
##### PART 450 - GENERAL
###### Subpart B - Procedure for Delegation to Approval Authorities
####### ยง 450.11 Application for delegation of authority.

(a) Any person or organization seeking delegation of authority to act as an Approval Authority may apply to the Commandant (CG-OES), Attn: Office of Operating and Environmental Standards, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509. Each application must be signed and certified by the applicant or, if the applicant is an organization, by an authorized officer of the organization. A list of delegated approval authorities may be obtained from the Commandant (CG-OES).

(b) The application must include the following information:

(1) Name and address, including place of incorporation, if a corporation.

(2) A description of the organization, including the ownership, managerial structure, organizational components and directly affiliated agencies and their functions utilized for supporting technical services.

(3) A listing of the basic technical services offered.

(4) A general description of the geographic area served.

(5) A general description of the clients being served or intended to be served.

(6) A description of the types of work performed by the applicant in the past, noting the amount and extent of such work performed within the previous three years.

(7) A description of the personnel to be utilized, indicating general background and qualifications, particularly for the surveyors to be involved in the actual witnessing of tests.

(8) A description of its means of assuring continued competence of its personnel.

(9) A detailed schedule of the fees proposed to be charged for the approval service.

(10) Evidence of financial stability.

(11) At least three business references who will furnish information regarding work performed by the applicant.

(12) A statement that the Coast Guard may inspect the applicant's facilities and records of approvals under the convention and these regulations.

(c) The application may contain any additional information the applicant deems to be pertinent.

(d) The applicant must furnish any additional information to evaluate the applicant's qualifications, if requested by the Chief, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards (CG-OES), U.S. Coast Guard.

(e) Applications from foreign nationals or organizations must contain an affidavit stating that the agency responsible for implementing the Convention in their country has delegated to the applicant an approval authority, and that it also delegates similar authority to United States citizens or organizations having delegations from the United States. The affidavit must also contain the name and address of the agency to which U.S. citizens or organizations must apply for delegation as an approval authority.
