
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter IV - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter B - Safety Approval of Cargo Containers
##### PART 450 - GENERAL
###### Subpart B - Procedure for Delegation to Approval Authorities
####### ยง 450.14 Conditions of delegation.

(a) The following conditions are part of every delegation:

(1) The Approval Authority shall use only testing equipment that it has determined by inspection to be suitable for the purpose.

(2) All approval numbers issued by the Approval Authority must contain the identification code, assigned to the Approval Authority by the Chief, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards (CG-OES), U.S. Coast Guard.

(3) Each Approval Authority shall maintain the following records for a period of at least 15 years from the date of approval. (When the Approval Authority's delegation is withdrawn before such time, the records relating to the approvals issued within the prior 15 years must be turned over to the Chief, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards (CG-OES), U.S. Coast Guard):

(i) Each notice of approval issued.

(ii) A copy of the application and final approved drawings (if applicable) to which each approval refers.

(iii) The manufacturer's serial numbers and the owner's identification numbers of all containers covered by each approval.

(4) Each Approval Authority shall establish and make available to the public a schedule of fees for the approval services performed under these regulations. The fees must not be disproportionate to the costs (including transportation expense, if any) actually incurred.

(5) The Approval Authority shall grant the Coast Guard the right to inspect records and shall cooperate in the conduct of such inspections.

(6) The Approval Authority shall comply with any other term or condition stated in its letter of delegation.
