
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter IV - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter B - Safety Approval of Cargo Containers
##### PART 450 - GENERAL
###### Subpart B - Procedure for Delegation to Approval Authorities
####### ยง 450.13 Granting of delegation.

(a) The Chief, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards (CG-OES), U.S. Coast Guard acts on applications for delegation within 60 days of receipt.

(b) If an applicant for delegation does not provide sufficient information with regard to all the criteria for delegation, the Chief, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards (CG-OES), U.S. Coast Guard denies the application. A denial of an application on this basis is without prejudice to the submission of a new or amended application.

(c) If an applicant satisfies all the criteria for delegation the Chief, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards (CG-OES), U.S. Coast Guard sends the applicant a letter of delegation, and assigns to the Approval Authority an alphabetic Approval Authority identification code.

(d) If an applicant fails to satisfy all the criteria for delegation, the Chief, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards (CG-OES), U.S. Coast Guard gives the applicant written notice of denial of his application. The notice contains all the reasons for the denial. The applicant may contest the denial by submitting additional oral or written evidence in support of its qualifications. Upon review of the evidence, the Chief, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards (CG-OES), U.S. Coast Guard notifies the applicant of the final decision.
