
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter IV - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter B - Safety Approval of Cargo Containers
##### PART 451 - TESTING AND APPROVAL OF CONTAINERS
###### Subpart A - Approval of Existing Containers
####### ยง 451.1 Application for approval.

(a) Any owner of an existing container may apply for approval to the Commandant (CG-OES), Attn: Office of Operating and Environmental Standards, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509 or to any Approval Authority.

(b) Each application must include the following for each container:

(1) Date and place of manufacture.

(2) Manufacturer's identification number, if available.

(3) Maximum operating gross weight capacity.

(4) Allowable stacking weight for 1.8G (1.8 x Gross weight in kilograms or pounds).

(5) A statement that the owner possesses documentary evidence that:

(i) Container of this type has been safely used in marine or inland transport for a period of at least two years; or

(ii) The container was manufactured to a design type which had been tested and found to comply with the technical conditions set out in Annex II to the convention with the exception of those technical conditions relating to the end-wall and side-wall strength tests; or

(iii) The container was constructed to standards that were equivalent to the technical conditions set out in Annex II to the convention with the exception of those technical conditions relating to end-wall and side-wall strength tests.

(6) A certification by the owner, or, if the owner is a corporation, partnership or unincorporated association, by a person authorized to make such statements for the organization, that the information provided in the application is true and correct.
