
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter IV - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter B - Safety Approval of Cargo Containers
##### PART 451 - TESTING AND APPROVAL OF CONTAINERS
###### Subpart B - Approval of New Containers
####### ยง 451.12 Application for approval by design type.

(a) For approval of new containers by design type, each application must include the following:

(1) Engineering drawings and plans showing platform, end framing, welds and hardware, connections of cross-members, top and bottom rails, roof bows, detailed subassemblies of major structural components and attachments, and any other plans and drawings required by the approval authority.

(2) Design and material specifications including type and size of materials. Material specifications of the safety approval plate must also be given.

(3) The manufacturer's identification number assigned to each container in the type series.

(4) The identification code assigned to each container in the series by the owner, lessee, or bailee responsible for maintenance.

(5) The written assurance from the manufacturer, that the manufacturer will:

(i) Produce to the approval authority such containers as the approval authority may wish to examine;

(ii) Advise the approval authority of any change in the design or specification and await its approval before affixing the Safety Approval Plate to the container;

(iii) Affix the Safety Approval Plate to each container in the design type and to no others;

(iv) Keep a record of containers manufactured to the approved design type containing at least the manufacturer's identification numbers, date of delivery, and names and addresses of customers to whom the containers are delivered; and

(v) Supply to the approval authority the information contained in paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section if not available at the time of original application.

(6) A statement as to whether this design type has been examined by any approval authority previously and judged unacceptable. Affirmative statements must be documented with the name of the approving authority, the reason for nonacceptance, and the nature of modifications made to the design type.
