
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter IV - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter B - Safety Approval of Cargo Containers
##### PART 453 - CONTROL AND ENFORCEMENT
###### ยง 453.1 Unsafe and noncomplying containers subject to detention or control.

(a) Any container used in or offered for movement in international transport which does not have a valid safety approval plate attached to it is subject to detention or other control by a District Commander or Captain of the Port. However, upon receipt of evidence that a container which does not have a valid safety approval plate attached to it meets the standards of the convention, the District Commander or Captain of the Port may authorize limited movement of such container under conditions he deems appropriate. This paragraph becomes effective on January 3, 1979 for new containers and on January 1, 1985 for existing containers.

(b) If a District Commander or Captain of the Port finds that a container used in or offered for movement in international transport, even though it has a valid safety approval plate attached to it, is in a condition that creates an obvious risk to safety, he issues a detention order causing the container to be removed from service until it is restored to a safe condition. In addition to removing a container from transport, a detention order may require any special handling, including unloading prior to movement, necessary to ensure safety.

(c) If a District Commander or Captain of the Port finds that a container used or offered for movement in international transport has not been timely examined, the District Commander or Captain of the Port affixes to the container, at a place on the container where it will be readily noticeable to anyone loading or unloading the container, a mark or tag indicating that the container must be examined before being reloaded and again used in international transport. The mark or tag affixed by the District Commander or Captain of the Port indicates the place and the date on which it was affixed, and is capable of remaining legible and in place for at least 12 months. Such mark or tag must not be removed until the container is examined in accordance with ยง 452.3 of this subchapter. If a District Commander or Captain of the Port finds that container marked or tagged as provided for in this paragraph was reloaded and used or offered for movement in international transport without having been examined, the District Commander or Captain of the Port issues a detention order causing the container to be removed from service until it is brought into compliance.
