
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 501 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
##### ยง 501.8 Delegations.
###### Chief Counsel.

(d)The Chief Counsel is delegated authority to:

(1) Exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Administrator with respect to:

(i) Issuing odometer regulations authorized under 49 U.S.C. chapter 327.

(ii) Providing technical assistance and granting extensions of time to the states under 49 U.S.C. 32705.

(iii) Granting or denying petitions for approval of alternate motor vehicle mileage disclosure requirements under 49 U.S.C. 32705.

(2) Establish the legal sufficiency of all investigations and enforcement actions conducted under the authority of 49 U.S.C. chapters 301, 303, 321, 323, 325, 327, 329 and 331; to make an initial penalty demand based on a violations of any of these chapters; and to compromise:

(i) Any civil penalty imposed under 49 U.S.C. 30165 in an amount of $1,000,000 or less.

(ii) Any civil penalty or monetary settlement other than those imposed under 49 U.S.C. 30165 in an amount of $100,000 or less.

(3) Exercise the powers of the Administrator under 49 U.S.C. 30166(c), (g), (h), (i), and (k).

(4) Issue subpoenas, after notice to the Administrator, for the attendance of witnesses and production of documents pursuant to 49 U.S.C. chapters 301, 321, 323, 325, 327, 329 and 331.

(5) Issue authoritative interpretations of the statutes administered by NHTSA and the regulations issued by the agency.

(6) Administer 5 U.S.C. 552 (FOIA) and 49 CFR part 7 (Public Availability of Information) in connection with the records of NHTSA.

(7) Administer the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and 49 CFR part 10 (Maintenance of and Access to Records Pertaining to Individuals) in connection with the records of NHTSA.

(8) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary for 23 U.S.C. 313 (Buy America), with respect to matters within the primary responsibility of NHTSA.
