
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 510 - INFORMATION GATHERING POWERS
##### ยง 510.3 Compulsory process, the service thereof, claims for confidential treatment, and terms of compliance.
###### duces tecum

(5) In the case of a subpoenaor a written request for the production of documents and things, a reasonably specific description of the documents or things to be produced.

(c) Service of the compulsory processes specified in paragraph (a) of this section is effected:

(1) By personal service upon the person, agent-in-charge, or agent designated to receive process under 15 U.S.C. 1399(e) of the sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation or other entity being investigated, inspected, or inquired of; or

(2) By mail (registered or certified) or delivery to the last known residence or business address of such person or agent.

(d) The date of service of any compulsory process specified in paragraph (a) of this section is the date on which the process is mailed by the agency, or delivered in person, as the case may be. Whenever a period is prescribed for compliance with compulsory process, and the process is served upon the party by mail, 3 days are added to the period.

(e)(1) Any person, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other entity submitting information or producing documents or things in response to any compulsory process issued under this part may request confidential treatment for all or part of that information or for those documents or things.

(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, requests for confidentiality shall be in writing, and addressed to the Chief Counsel.

(ii) Requests for confidentiality made during an information gathering hearing or an administrative deposition may be made orally to the presiding officer. Any oral request for confidentiality shall be supplemented by a written request, and this written request must be addressed to the Chief Counsel and received by NHTSA within five days of the date of the oral request.

(iii) A written request for confidentiality under paragraph (e) of this section shall specify the information, documents, or things which are to be kept confidential, specify the grounds upon which the claim is based, provide such information as may be necessary to permit the NHTSA to determine whether the claim is valid, and specify the period of time for which confidential treatment is requested.

(f) The Chief Counsel, or his or her delegate, is authorized to negotiate and approve the terms of satisfactory compliance with any compulsory process issued under this part.
