
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 511 - ADJUDICATIVE PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Pleadings; Form; Execution; Service of Documents
###### ยง 511.11 Commencement of proceedings.
####### Form and content of complaint.

(b)The complaint shall be signed by the Complaint Counsel and shall contain the following:

(1) Recital of the legal authority for instituting the proceeding, with specific designation of the statutory provisions involved in each allegation.

(2) Identification of each respondent.

(3) A clear and concise statement of the charges, sufficient to inform each respondent with reasonable definiteness of the factual basis of the allegations of violation. A list and summary of documentary evidence supporting the charges shall be attached.

(4) A statement of the civil penalty which the Complaint Counsel believes is in the public interest, or which is required by law. In the case of civil penalties assessed for violations of section 507(3) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 2007(3)), the amount of such penalty shall be calculated from the time of the alleged violation. In the case of civil penalties assessed for violations of section 507 (1) or (2) of that Act, any monetary credits available to offset those civil penalties shall be specified.

(5) The right of the respondent to a hearing on the alleged violations.
