
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 511 - ADJUDICATIVE PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Discovery; Compulsory Process
###### ยง 511.35 Testimony upon oral examination.
####### Transcription and filing of testimony,Transcription.

(e)-(1)Upon request by any party, the testimony recorded at an examination shall be transcribed. When the testimony is fully transcribed, the transcript shall be submitted to the witness for examination and signing, and shall be read to or by the witness, unless such examination and signature are waived by the witness. Any change in form or substance which the witness desires to make shall be entered upon the transcript of the official reporter with a statement of the reasons given by the witness for making them. The transcript shall then be signed by the witness, unless the parties by stipulation waive the signing, or the witness is ill or cannot be found or refuses to sign. If the transcript is not signed by the witness within thirty (30) days of its submission to him, the official reporter shall sign it and state on the record the fact of the waiver of signature or of the illness or absence of the witness or the fact of the refusal to sign, together with a statement of the reasons therefor. The testimony may then be used as fully as though signed, in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
