
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 511 - ADJUDICATIVE PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Hearings
###### ยง 511.42 Powers and duties of Presiding Officer.
####### Disqualification of Presiding Officer.

(e)(1) When a Presiding Officer deems himself or herself disqualified to preside in a particular proceeding, he or she shall withdraw by notice on the record and shall notify the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the withdrawal.

(2) Whenever, for any reason, any party shall deem the Presiding Officer to be disqualified to preside, or to continue to preside, in a particular proceeding, that party may file with the Chief Administrative Law Judge a motion to disqualify and remove, supported by affidavit(s) setting forth the alleged grounds for disqualification. A copy of the motion and supporting affidavit(s) shall be served by the Chief Administrative Law Judge on the Presiding Officer whose removal is sought. The Presiding Officer shall have ten (10) days from service to reply in writing. Such motion shall not stay the proceeding unless otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator. If the Presiding Officer does not disqualify himself or herself, the Administrator will determine the validity of the grounds alleged, either directly or on the report of another Presiding Officer appointed to conduct a hearing for that purpose, and shall in the event of disqualification take appropriate action, by assigning another Presiding Officer or requesting assignment of another Administrative Law Judge through the Office of Hearings.
