
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 520 - PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
##### Subpart B - Procedures
###### ยง 520.23 Preparation of draft environmental impact statements.
####### Planning stage.

(a)(1) When a DEIS is to be prepared, the responsible official shall promptly initiate its preparation and develop a schedule in consultation with the Associate Administrator for Planning and Evaluation, to assure completion prior to the first significant point of decision in the program or project development process.

(2) The environmental impacts of proposed activities should be initially assessed concurrently with the initial technical and economic studies.

(3) Section 102(2)(A) of NEPA requires each Federal agency to utilize a "systematic, interdisciplinary approach" to plans and programs affecting the environment. To assure that all environmental impacts are identified and assessed, all relevant disciplines should be represented. If the necessary disciplines are not represented on the staff of the applicant or NHTSA, it is appropriate to use professional services available in other Federal, State or local agencies, universities, or consulting firms. The use of the interdisciplinary approach should not be limited to the environmental statement. This approach should also be used in the early planning stages to help assure a systematic evaluation of reasonable alternative courses of action and their potential social, economic, and environmental consequences.
