
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 529 - MANUFACTURERS OF MULTISTAGE AUTOMOBILES
##### § 529.4 Requirements for incomplete automobile manufacturers.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, §§ 529.5 and 529.6, each incomplete automobile manufacturer is considered, with respect to multistage automobiles incorporating its incomplete automobiles, the manufacturer of the multistage automobiles for purposes of the requirements of Title V and rules issued thereunder.

(b) Each incomplete automobile manufacturer shall furnish with each of its incomplete automobiles, when it is delivered to the subsequent manufacturer, (1) a document that contains the following information-

(i) Name and mailing address of the incomplete automobile manufacturer.

(ii) Month and year during which the incomplete automobile manufacturer performed its last manufacturing operation on the incomplete automobile.

(iii) Identification of the incomplete automobile or group of incomplete automobiles to which the document applies. The identification may be by serial number or otherwise, but it must be sufficient to enable a subsequent manufacturer to ascertain positively that the document applies to a particular incomplete automobile even if the document is not attached to that automobile.

(iv) Fuel economy values determined by the incomplete automobile manufacturer for the automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600 and a statement that a fuel economy label containing those values has been prepared in accordance with Environmental Protection Agency regulation by the manufacturer identified in the document.

(v) Maximum curb weight that may not be exceeded by a subsequent manufacturer without invalidating the fuel economy values determined by the incomplete automobile manufacturer.

(vi) Maximum frontal area that may not be exceeded by a subsequent manufacturer without invalidating the fuel economy values determined by the incomplete automobile manufacturer.

(vii) Whether the fuel economy values have been computed with the road load horsepower set to take into account the presence of air conditioning.

(2) A fuel economy label conforming with 40 CFR part 600.

(c)(1) The incomplete automobile manufacturer shall either attach the document specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the incomplete automobile in such a manner that it will not be inadvertently detached or send that document directly to the subsequent manufacturer to which that automobile is delivered.

(2)(i) If the incomplete automobile manufacturer places the portion of the body including the windshield and front seat side windows on the incomplete automobile, that manufacturer shall attach the fuel economy label specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section to that automobile in accordance with 40 CFR part 600. If the incomplete automobile manufacturer does not place that portion of the body on the incomplete automobile, that manufacturer shall send that label directly to the subsequent manufacturer to which that automobile is delivered.

(ii) Upon request by an intermediate or final-stage manufacturer for a copy of a fuel economy label that is required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section to have been prepared by the incomplete automobile manufacturer for one of its incomplete automobiles, identified by the requesting manufacturer in the same fashion as in the document specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the incomplete automobile manufacturer shall send that manufacturer a copy of the label.
