
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.3 Applicability.

(a) This part applies to manufacturers that produce complete and incomplete heavy-duty vehicles as defined in 49 CFR part 523, and to the manufacturers of all heavy-duty engines manufactured for use in the applicable vehicles for each given model year.

(b) This part also applies to alterers, final stage manufacturers, and intermediate manufacturers producing vehicles and engines or assembling motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment under special conditions. Manufacturers comply with this part by following the special conditions in 40 CFR 1037.620, 1037.621, and 1037.622 in which EPA allows manufacturer to:

(1) Share responsibility for the vehicles they produce. Manufacturers sharing responsibility for complying with emissions and fuel consumption standards must submit to the agencies a joint agreement as specified in 49 CFR 534.8(a);

(2) Have certificate holders sell or ship vehicles that are missing certain emission-related components to be installed by secondary vehicle manufacturers;

(3) Ship partially complete vehicles to secondary manufacturers;

(4) Build electric vehicles; and

(5) Build alternative fueled vehicles from all types of heavy duty engine conversions. The conversion manufacturer must:

(i) Install alternative fuel conversion systems into vehicles acquired from vehicle manufacturers prior to first retail sale or prior to the vehicle's introduction into interstate commerce.

(ii) Be designated by the vehicle manufacturer and EPA to be the certificate holder.

(iii) Omit alternative fueled vehicles from compliance with vehicle fuel consumption standards, if-

(A) Excluded from EPA emissions standards; and

(B) A reasonable technical basis exist that the modified vehicle continues to meet emissions and fuel consumption vehicle standards.

(c) Vehicle and engine manufacturers that must comply with this part include manufacturers required to have approved certificates of conformity from EPA as specified in 40 CFR parts 86, 1036, and 1037.

(d) The following heavy-duty vehicles and engines are excluded from the requirements of this part:

(1) Vehicles and engines manufactured prior to January 1, 2014, unless certified early under NHTSA's voluntary provisions in ยง 535.5.

(2) Medium-duty passenger vehicles and other vehicles subject to the light-duty corporate average fuel economy standards in 49 CFR parts 531 and 533.

(3) Recreational vehicles, including motor homes manufactured before January 1, 2021, except those produced by manufacturers voluntarily complying with NHTSA's early vocational standards for model years 2013 through 2020.

(4) Aircraft vehicles meeting the definition of "motor vehicle". For example, this would include certain convertible aircraft that can be adjusted to operate on public roads.

(5) Heavy-duty trailers as defined in 49 CFR 523.10 meeting one or more of the following criteria are excluded from trailer standards in ยง 535.5(e):
