
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.3 Applicability.
###### i.e.,

(i) Trailers with four or more axles and trailers less than 35 feet long with three axles (trailers intended for hauling very heavy loads).

(ii) Trailers intended for temporary or permanent residence, office space, or other work space, such as campers, mobile homes, and carnival trailers.

(iii) Trailers with a gap of at least 120 inches between adjacent axle centerlines. In the case of adjustable axle spacing, this refers to the closest possible axle positioning.

(iv) Trailers built before January 1, 2021, except those trailers built by manufacturers after January 1, 2018, and voluntarily complying with NHTSA's early trailer standards for model years 2018 through 2020.

(v) Note that the definition of "heavy-duty trailer" in 49 CFR 523.10 excludes equipment that serves similar purposes but are not intended to be pulled by a tractor. This exclusion applies to such equipment whether or not they are known commercially as trailers. For example, any equipment pulled by a heavy-duty vehicle with a pintle hook or hitch instead of a fifth wheel does not qualify as a trailer under this part.

(6) Engines installed in heavy-duty vehicles that are not used to propel vehicles. Note, this includes engines used to indirectly propel vehicles (such as electrical generator engines that power to batteries for propulsion).

(7) The provisions of this part do not apply to engines that are not internal combustion engines. For example, the provisions of this part do not apply to fuel cells. Note that gas turbine engines are internal combustion engines.

(e) The following heavy-duty vehicles and engines are exempted from the requirements of this part:
