
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### § 535.3 Applicability.
###### e.g.

(f) For model year 2021 and later, vocational vehicle manufacturers building custom chassis vehicles (emergency vehicles) may be exempted from standards in § 535.5(b)(4) and may comply with alternative fuel consumption standards as specified in § 535.5(b)(6). Manufacturers complying with alternative fuel consumption standards in § 535.5(b)(6) are restricted in using fuel consumption credits as specified in § 535.7(c).

(g) The fuel consumption standards in some cases apply differently for spark-ignition and compression-ignition engines or vehicles as specified in 40 CFR parts 1036 and 1037. Engine requirements are similarly differentiated by engine type and by primary intended service class, as described in 40 CFR 1036.140.

(h) NHTSA may exclude or exempt vehicles and engines under special conditions allowed by EPA in accordance with 40 CFR parts 85, 86, 1036, 1037, 1039, and 1068. Manufacturers should consult the agencies if uncertain how to apply any EPA provision under the NHTSA fuel consumption program. It is recommend that manufacturers seek clarification before producing a vehicle. Upon notification by EPA of a fraudulent use of an exemption, NHTSA reserves that right to suspend or revoke any exemption or exclusion.

(i) In cases where there are differences between the application of this part and the corresponding EPA program regarding whether a vehicle is regulated or not (such as due to differences in applicability resulting from differing agency definitions, etc.), manufacturers should contact the agencies to identify these vehicles and assess the applicability of the agencies' standards. The agencies will provide guidance on how the vehicles can comply. Manufacturers are required to identify these vehicles in their final reports submitted in accordance with § 535.8.
