
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.4 Definitions.
###### Primary intended service class

has the same meaning for engines as specified in 40 CFR 1036.140. Manufacturers must identify a single primary intended service class for each engine family that best describes vehicles for which it designs and markets the engine, as follows:

(1) Divide compression-ignition engines into primary intended service classes based on the following engine and vehicle characteristics:

(i) Light heavy-duty "LHD" engines usually are not designed for rebuild and do not have cylinder liners. Vehicle body types in this group might include any heavy-duty vehicle built from a light-duty truck chassis, van trucks, multi-stop vans, and some straight trucks with a single rear axle. Typical applications would include personal transportation, light-load commercial delivery, passenger service, agriculture, and construction. The GVWR of these vehicles is normally below 19,500 pounds.

(ii) Medium heavy-duty "MHD" engines may be designed for rebuild and may have cylinderliners. Vehicle body types in this group would typically include school buses, straight trucks with single rear axles, city tractors, and a variety of special purpose vehicles such as small dump trucks, and refuse trucks. Typical applications would include commercial short haul and intra-city delivery and pickup. Engines in this group are normally used in vehicles whose GVWR ranges from 19,500 to 33,000 pounds.

(iii) Heavy heavy-duty "HHD" engines are designed for multiple rebuilds and have cylinder liners. Vehicles in this group are normally tractors, trucks, straight trucks with dual rear axles, and buses used in inter-city, long-haul applications. These vehicles normally exceed 33,000 pounds GVWR.

(2) Divide spark-ignition engines into primary intended service classes as follows:

(i) Spark-ignition engines that are best characterized by paragraph (1)(i) or (ii) of this definition are in a separate "spark-ignition" primary intended service class.

(ii) Spark-ignition engines that are best characterized by paragraph (1)(iii) of this definition share a primary intended service class with compression-ignition heavy heavy-duty engines. Gasoline-fueled engines are presumed not to be characterized by paragraph (1)(iii) of this definition; for example, vehicle manufacturers may install some number of gasoline-fueled engines in Class 8 trucks without causing the engine manufacturer to consider those to be heavy heavy-duty engines.

(iii) References to "spark-ignition standards" in this part relate only to the spark-ignition engines identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. References to "compression-ignition standards" in this part relate to compression-ignition engines, to spark-ignition engines optionally certified to standards that apply to compression-ignition engines, and to all engines identified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as heavy heavy-duty engines.
