
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.4 Definitions.
###### Regulatory subcategory

means the sub-groups in each regulatory category to which mandatory fuel consumption standards and requirements apply as specified in 40 CFR 1036.230 and 1037.230 and are defined as follows:

(1) Heavy-duty pick-up trucks and vans.

(2) Vocational vehicle subcategories have 18 separate vehicle service classes as shown in Tables 1 and 2 below and include vocational tractors. Table 1 includes vehicles complying with Phase 1 standards. Phase 2 vehicles are included in Table 2 which have separate subcategories to account for engine characteristics, GVWR, and the selection of duty cycle for vocational vehicles as specified in 40 CFR 1037.510; vehicles may additionally fall into one of the subcategories defined by the custom-chassis standards in ยง 535.5(b)(6) and 40 1037.105(h). Manufacturers using the alternate standards in ยง 535.5(b)(6) and 40 CFR 1037.105(h) should treat each vehicle type as a separate vehicle subcategory.

(3) Tractor subcategories are shown in Table 3 below for Phase 1 and 2. Table 3 includes 10 separate subcategories for tractors complying with Phase 1 and 2 standards. The heavy-haul tractor subcategory only applies for Phase 2.

(4) Trailer subcategories are shown in Table 4 of this section for the Phase 2 program. Trailers do not comply under the Phase 1 program. Table 4 includes 10 separate subcategories for trailers, which are only subject to Phase 2 only standards.

(5) Engine subcategories are shown for each primary intended service class in Table 5 below. Table 5 includes 6 separate subcategories for engines which are the same for Phase 1 and 2 standards.
