
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.5 Standards.
###### Optional certification under this section.

(6)Manufacturers may certify certain complete or cab-complete vehicles to the fuel consumption standards of this section. All vehicles optionally certified under this paragraph (6) are deemed to be subject to the fuel consumption standards of this section given the following conditions:

(i) For fuel consumption compliance, manufacturers may certify any complete or cab-complete spark-ignition vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR and at or below 26,000 pounds GVWR to the fuel consumption standards of this section.

(ii) Manufacturers may apply the provisions of this section to cab-complete vehicles based on a complete sister vehicle. In unusual circumstances, manufacturers may ask the agencies to apply these provisions to Class 2b or Class 3 incomplete vehicles that do not meet the definition of cab-complete.

(A) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section, for purposes of this section, a complete sister vehicle is a complete vehicle of the same vehicle configuration as the cab-complete vehicle. A manufacturer may not apply the provisions of this paragraph (6) to any vehicle configuration that has a four-wheel rear axle if the complete sister vehicle has a two-wheel rear axle.

(B) Calculate the target value for the fleet-average fuel consumption standard under paragraph (a)(3) of this section based on the work factor value that applies for the complete sister vehicle.

(C) Test these cab-complete vehicles using the same equivalent test weight and other dynamometer settings that apply for the complete vehicle from which you used the work factor value (the complete sister vehicle). For fuel consumption certification, manufacturers may submit the test data from that complete sister vehicle instead of performing the test on the cab-complete vehicle.

(D) Manufacturers are not required to produce the complete sister vehicle for sale to use the provisions of this paragraph (a)(6)(ii). This means the complete sister vehicle may be a carryover vehicle from a prior model year or a vehicle created solely for the purpose of testing.

(iii) For fuel consumption purposes, if a cab-complete vehicle is not of the same vehicle configuration as a complete sister vehicle due only to certain factors unrelated to coastdown performance, manufacturers may use the road-load coefficients from the complete sister vehicle for certification testing of the cab-complete vehicle, but it may not use fuel consumption data from the complete sister vehicle for certifying the cab-complete vehicle.
