
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.5 Standards.
###### Loose engines.

(7)For model year 2023 and earlier spark-ignition engines with identical hardware compared with engines used in vehicles certified to the standards of this section, where such engines are sold as loose engines or as engines installed in incomplete vehicles that are not cab-complete vehicles. Manufacturers may certify such engines to the standards of this section, subject to the following provisions:

(i) For 2020 and earlier model years, the maximum allowable U.S.-directed production volume of engines manufacturers may sell under this paragraph (7) in any given model year is ten percent of the total U.S-directed production volume of engines of that design that the manufacturer produces for heavy-duty applications for that model year, including engines it produces for complete vehicles, cab-complete vehicles, and other incomplete vehicles. The total number of engines a manufacturer may certify under this paragraph (7), of all engine designs, may not exceed 15,000 in any model year. Engines produced in excess of either of these limits are not covered by your certificate. For example, a manufacturer produces 80,000 complete model year 2017 Class 2b pickup trucks with a certain engine and 10,000 incomplete model year 2017 Class 3 vehicles with that same engine, and the manufacturer did not apply the provisions of this paragraph (a)(7) to any other engine designs, it may produce up to 10,000 engines of that design for sale as loose engines under this paragraph (a)(7). If a manufacturer produced 11,000 engines of that design for sale as loose engines, the last 1,000 of them that it produced in that model year 2017 would be considered uncertified.

(ii) For model years 2021 through 2023, the U.S.-directed production volume of engines manufacturers sell under this paragraph (a)(7) in any given model year may not exceed 10,000 units. This paragraph (a)(7) does not apply for engines certified to the standards of paragraph (d) of this section and 40 CFR 1036.108.

(iii) Vehicles using engines certified under this paragraph (a)(7) are subject to the fuel consumption and emission standards of paragraph (b) of this section and 40 CFR 1037.105 and engine standards in 40 CFR 1036.150(j).

(iv) For certification purposes, engines are deemed to have a fuel consumption target values and test result equal to the fuel consumption target value and test result for the complete vehicle in the applicable test group with the highest equivalent test weight, except as specified in paragraph (a)(7)(iv)(B) of this section. Manufacturers use these values to calculate target values and the fleet-average fuel consumption rate. Where there are multiple complete vehicles with the same highest equivalent test weight, select the fuel consumption target value and test result as follows:

(A) If one or more of the fuel consumption test results exceed the applicable target value, use the fuel consumption target value and test result of the vehicle that exceeds its target value by the greatest amount.

(B) If none of the fuel consumption test results exceed the applicable target value, select the highest target value and set the test result equal to it. This means that the manufacturer may not generate fuel consumption credits from vehicles certified under this paragraph (a)(7).
