
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.5 Standards.
###### Mandatory standards.

(1)Heavy-duty vocational vehicle subfamilies produced for Phase 1 must comply with the fuel consumption standards in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. For Phase 2, each vehicle manufacturer of heavy-duty vocational vehicle subfamilies must comply with the fuel consumption standards in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(i) For model years 2016 to 2020, the heavy-duty vocational vehicle category is subdivided by GVWR into three regulatory subcategories as defined in ยง 535.4, each with its own assigned standard.

(ii) For model years 2021 and later, the heavy-duty vocational vehicle category is subdivided into 15 regulatory subcategories depending upon whether vehicles are equipped with a compression or spark-ignition engine, as defined in ยง 535.4. Standards also differ based upon vehicle service class and intended vehicle duty cycles. See 40 CFR 1037.140 and 1037.150(z).

(iii) For purposes of certifying vehicles to fuel consumption standards, manufacturers must divide their product lines in each regulatory subcategory into vehicle families that have similar emissions and fuel consumption features, as specified by EPA in 40 CFR 1037.230. These families will be subject to the applicable standards. Each vehicle family is limited to a single model year.

(A) Vocational vehicles including custom chassis vehicles must use qualified automatic tire inflation systems or tire pressure monitoring systems for wheels on all axles.

(B) Tire pressure monitoring systems must use low pressure warning and malfunction telltales in clear view of the driver as specified in S4.3 and S4.4 of 49 CFR 571.138.
