
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.5 Standards.
###### Alternate standards for custom chassis vehicles for model years 2021 and later.

(6)Manufacturers may elect to certify certain vocational vehicles to the alternate standards for custom chassis vehicles specified in this paragraph (b)(6) instead of the standards specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Note that, although these standards were established for custom chassis vehicles, manufacturers may apply these provisions to any qualifying vehicle even though these standards were established for custom chassis vehicles. For example, large diversified vehicle manufacturers may certify vehicles to the refuse hauler standards of this section as long as the manufacturer ensures that those vehicles qualify as refuse haulers when placed into service. GEM simulates vehicle operation for each type of vehicle based on an assigned vehicle service class, independent of the vehicle's actual characteristics, as shown in Table 10 of this section; however, standards apply for the vehicle's useful life based on its actual characteristics as specified in paragraph (b)(10) of this section. Vehicles certified to these alternative standards must use engines certified to requirements under paragraph (d) of this section and 40 CFR part 1036 for the appropriate model year, except that motor homes and emergency vehicles may use engines certified with the loose-engine provisions of paragraph (a)(7) of this section and 40 CFR 1037.150(m). This also applies for vehicles meeting standards under paragraphs (b)(6)(iv) through (vi) of this section. The fuel consumption standards for custom chassis vehicles are given in the following table:

(i) Manufacturers may generate or use fuel consumption credits for averaging to demonstrate compliance with the alternative standards as described in ยง 535.7(c). This requires that manufacturers specify a Family Emission Limit (FEL) for fuel consumption for each vehicle subfamily. The FEL may not be less than the result of emission modeling as described in this paragraph (b). These FELs serve as the fuel consumption standards for the vehicle subfamily instead of the standards specified in this paragraph (b)(6). Manufacturers may only use fuel consumption credits for vehicles certified to the optional standards in this paragraph (b)(6) as specified in ยง 535.7(c)(6) through (8) and you may not bank or trade fuel consumption credits from any vehicles certified under this paragraph (b)(6).

(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6), each separate vehicle type identified in Table 10 of this section is in a separate averaging set.

(iii) For purposes of emission and fuel consumption modeling under 40 CFR 1037.520, consider motor homes and coach buses to be subject to the Regional duty cycle, and consider all other vehicles to be subject to the Urban duty cycle.

(iv) Emergency vehicles are deemed to comply with the standards of this paragraph (6) if manufacturers use tires with TRRL at or below 8.4 kg/ton (8.7 g/ton for model years 2021 through 2026).

(v) Concrete mixers are deemed to comply with the standards of this paragraph (6) if manufacturers use tires with TRRL at or below 7.1 kg/ton (7.6 g/ton for model years 2021 through 2026).

(vi) Motor homes are deemed to comply with the standards of this paragraph (b)(6) if manufacturers use the following technologies:

(A) Tires with TRRL at or below 6.0 kg/ton (6.7 g/ton for model years 2021 through 2026).

(B) Automatic tire inflation systems or tire pressure monitoring systems with wheels on all axles.

(C) Tire pressure monitoring systems must use low pressure warning and malfunction telltales in clear view of the driver as specified in S4.3 and S4.4 of 49 CFR 571.138.

(vii) Small business manufacturers using the alternative standards for custom chassis vehicles under this paragraph (b)(6) may use fuel consumption credits subject to the unique provisions in ยง 535.7(a)(9).
