
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.5 Standards.
###### Certifying across service classes.

(8)A manufacturer may optionally certify a vocational vehicle subfamilies to the standards and useful life applicable to a heavier vehicle service class (such as MHD vocational vehicles instead of LHD vocational vehicles). Provisions related to generating fuel consumption credits apply as follows:

(i) If a manufacturer certifies all its vehicles from a given vehicle service class in a given model year to the standards and useful life that applies for a heavier vehicle service class, it may generate credits as appropriate for the heavier service class.

(ii) Class 8 hybrid vehicles with light or medium heavy-duty engines may be certified to compression-ignition standards for the Heavy HDV service class. A manufacturer may generate and use credits as allowed for the Heavy HDV service class.

(iii) Except as specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section, a manufacturer may not generate credits with the vehicle. If you include lighter vehicles in a subfamily of heavier vehicles with an FEL below the standard, exclude the production volume of lighter vehicles from the credit calculation. Conversely, if a manufacturer includes lighter vehicles in a subfamily with an FEL above the standard, it must include the production volume of lighter vehicles in the credit calculation.
