
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.5 Standards.
###### Expanded families.

(8)Manufacturers may combine dissimilar vehicles into a single vehicle subfamilies for applying standards and for testing in special circumstances as follows:

(i) For a Phase 1 vehicle model that straddles a roof-height, cab type, or GVWR division, manufacturers can include all the vehicles in the same vehicle family if it certifies the vehicle family to the more stringent standard. For roof height, the manufacturer must certify to the taller roof standard. For cab-type and GVWR, the manufacturers must certify to the numerically lower standard.

(ii) For a Phase 2 vehicle model that includes a range of GVWR values that straddle weight classes, manufacturers may include all the vehicles in the same vehicle family if it certifies the vehicle family to the numerically lower fuel consumption standard from the affected service classes. Vehicles that are optionally certified to a more stringent standard under this paragraph are subject to useful-life and all other provisions corresponding to the weight class with the numerically lower fuel consumption standard. For a Phase 2 tractor model that includes a range of roof heights that straddle subcategories, a manufacturer may include all the vehicles in the same vehicle family if it certifies the vehicle family to the appropriate subcategory as follows:

(A) A manufacturer may certify mid-roof tractors as high-roof tractors, but it may not certify high-roof tractors as mid-roof tractors.

(B) For tractor families straddling the low-roof/mid-roof division, a manufacturer may certify the family based on the primary roof-height as long as no more than 10 percent of the tractors are certified to the otherwise inapplicable subcategory. For example, if 95 percent of the tractors in the family are less than 120 inches tall, and the other 5 percent are 122 inches tall, a manufacturer may certify the tractors as a single family in the low-roof subcategory.

(C) Determine the appropriate aerodynamic bin number based on the actual roof height if the CA value is measured. However, use the GEM input for the bin based on the standards to which the manufacturer certifies. For example, of a manufacturer certifies as mid roof tractors some low-roof tractors with a measured CA value of 4.2 m, it qualifies as Bin IV; and must input into GEM the mid-roof Bin IV value of 5.85 m.
