
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.5 Standards.
###### Mandatory standards.

(1)Manufacturers of heavy-duty engine families shall comply with the mandatory fuel consumption standards in paragraphs (d)(3) through (6) of this section for model years 2017 and later for compression-ignition engines and for model years 2016 and later for spark-ignition engines.

(i) The heavy-duty engine regulatory category is divided into six regulatory subcategories, five compression-ignition subcategories and one spark-ignition subcategory, as shown in Table 14 of this section.

(ii) Separate standards exist for engine families manufactured for use in heavy-duty vocational vehicles and in truck tractors.

(iii) For purposes of certifying engines to fuel consumption standards, manufacturers must divide their product lines in each regulatory subcategory into engine families. Fuel consumption standards apply each model year to the same engine families used to comply with EPAstandards in 40 CFR 1036.108 and 40 CFR 1037.230. An engine family is designated under the EPA program based upon testing specified in 40 CFR part 1036, subpart F, and the engine family's primary intended service class. Each engine family manufactured for use in a heavy-duty tractor or vocational vehicle must be certified to the primary intended service class that it is designed for in accordance with 40 CFR 1036.108 and 1036.140.
