
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.5 Standards.
###### Alternate transition option for Phase 2 engine standards.,e.g.

(11)(i) Manufacturers may optionally elect to comply with the model year 2021 primary (Phase 2) vocational vehicle and tractor engine standards in paragraph (d)(3) of this section beginning in model year 2020 (comply with the more stringent standards one year early). The model year 2021 standard would apply to these manufacturers for model years 2020 through 2023. Manufacturers that voluntarily certify their engines to model year 2021 standards early would then be eligible for less stringent engine tractor standards in model years 2024 through 2026, as follows:

(A) 5.2849 gallons per 100 hp-hr for MHD vocational vehicle engines.

(B) 4.5874 gallons per 100 hp-hr for MHD tractor engines.

(C) 4.9705 gallons per 100 hp-hr for HHD vocational vehicle engines.

(D) 4.3418 gallons per 100 hp-hr for HHD tractor engines.

(ii) The primary standard in paragraph (d)(3) applies for all manufacturers in model year 2027 and later years.

(iii) Manufacturers may apply these provisions separately for medium heavy-duty engines and heavy heavy-duty engines. This election applies to all engines in each segment. For example, if a manufacturer elects this alternate option for its medium heavy-duty engines, all of the manufacturer's medium heavy-duty vocational and tractor engines must comply. Engine fuel consumption credits generated under ยง 535.7(d) for manufacturers complying early with the model year 2021 standards follow the temporary extended credit life allowance in ยง 535.7(d)(9).
