
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.6 Measurement and calculation procedures.
###### Heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans.

(a)This section describes the method for determining the fuel consumption performance rates for test groups and for fleets of complete heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans each model year. The NHTSA heavy-duty pickup truck and van fuel consumption performance rates correspond to the same requirements for EPA as specified in 40 CFR 86.1819-14.

(1) For the Phase 1 program, if the manufacturer's fleet includes conventional vehicles (gasoline, diesel and alternative fueled vehicles) and advanced technology vehicles (hybrids with powertrain designs that include energy storage systems, vehicles with waste heat recovery, electric vehicles and fuel cell vehicles), it may divide its fleet into two separate fleets each with its own separate fleet average fuel consumption performance rate. For Phase 2, manufacturers may calculate their fleet average fuel consumption rates for a conventional fleet and separate advanced technology vehicle fleets. Advanced technology vehicle fleets should be separated into plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, electric vehicles and fuel cell vehicles.

(2) Vehicles in each fleet should be selected and divided into test groups or subconfigurations according to EPA in 40 CFR 86.1819-14(d).

(3) Use the EPA COemissions test results for each test group, in grams per mile, for the selected vehicles.

(i) Use COemissions test results for vehicles fueled by conventional and alternative fuels, including dedicated and dual-fueled (multi-fuel and flexible-fuel) vehicles using each fuel type as specified in 40 CFR 86.1819-14(d)(10).

(ii) Use COemissions test results for dual-fueled vehicles using a weighted average of the manufacturer's emission results as specified in 40 CFR 600.510-12(k) for light-duty trucks.

(iii) All electric vehicles are deemed to have zero emissions of CO, CH, and NO. No emission testing is required for such electric vehicles. Assign the fuel consumption test group result to a value of zero gallons per 100 miles in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(iv) Use COemissions test results for cab-complete and incomplete vehicles based upon the applicable complete sister vehicles as determined in 40 CFR 1819-14(j)(2).

(v) Use COemissions test results for loose engines using applicable complete vehicles as determined in 40 CFR 86.1819-14(k)(8).

(vi) Manufacturers can choose to analytically derive COemission rates (ADCs) for test groups or subconfigurations. Use ADCs for test groups or subconfigurations in accordance with 40 CFR 86.1819-14 (d) and (g).

(4) Calculate equivalent fuel consumption results for all test groups, in gallons per 100 miles, from COemissions test group results, in grams per miles, and round to the nearest 0.001 gallon per 100 miles.

(i) Calculate the equivalent fuel consumption test group results as follows for compression-ignition vehicles and alternative fuel compression-ignition vehicles. COemissions test group result (grams per mile)/10,180 grams per gallon of diesel fuel) x (10) = Fuel consumption test group result (gallons per 100 mile).

(ii) Calculate the equivalent fuel consumption test group results as follows for spark-ignition vehicles and alternative fuel spark-ignition vehicles. COemissions test group result (grams per mile)/((8,887 grams per gallon of gasoline fuel) x (10)) = Fuel consumption test group result (gallons per 100 mile).

(5) Calculate the fleet average fuel consumption result, in gallons per 100 miles, from the equivalent fuel consumption test group results and round the fuel consumption result to the nearest 0.001 gallon per 100 miles. Calculate the fleet average fuel consumption result using the following equation.

(6) Compare the fleet average fuel consumption standard to the fleet average fuel consumption performance. The fleet average fuel consumption performance must be less than or equal to the fleet fuel consumption standard to comply with standards in ยง 535.5(a).
