
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.6 Measurement and calculation procedures.
###### Heavy-duty vocational vehicles and tractors.

(b)This section describes the method for determining the fuel consumption performance rates for vehicle families of heavy-duty vocational vehicles and tractors. The NHTSA heavy-duty vocational vehicle and tractor fuel consumption performance rates correspond to the same requirements for EPA as specified in 40 CFR 1037, subpart F.

(1) Select vehicles and vehicle family configurations to test as specified in 40 CFR 1037.230 for vehicles that make up each of the manufacturer's regulatory subcategories of vocational vehicles and tractors. For the Phase 2 program, select powertrain, axle and transmission families in accordance with 40 CFR 1037.231 and 1037.232.

(2) Follow the EPA testing requirements in 40 CFR 1037.230 and 1037.501 to derive inputs for the Greenhouse gas Emissions Model (GEM).

(3) Enter inputs into GEM, in accordance with 40 CFR 1037.520, to derive the emissions and fuel consumption performance results for all vehicles (conventional, alternative fueled and advanced technology vehicles).

(4) For Phase 1 and 2, all of the following GEM inputs apply for vocational vehicles and other tractor regulatory subcategories, as follows:

(i) Model year and regulatory subcategory (see ยง 535.3 and 40 CFR 1037.230).

(ii) Coefficient of aerodynamic drag or drag area, as described in 40 CFR 1037.520(b) (tractors only for Phase 1).

(iii) Steer and drive tire rolling resistance, as described in 40 CFR 1037.520(c).

(iv) Vehicle speed limit, as described in 40 CFR 1037.520(d) (tractors only).

(v) Vehicle weight reduction, as described in 40 CFR 1037.520(e) (tractors only for Phase 1).

(vi) Automatic engine shutdown systems, as described in 40 CFR 1037.660 (only for Phase 1 Class 8 sleeper cabs). For Phase 1, enter a GEM input value of 5.0 g/ton-mile, or an adjusted value as specified in 40 CFR 1037.660.

(5) For Phase 2 vehicles, the GEM inputs described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (v) of this section continue to apply. Note that the provisions related to vehicle speed limiters and automatic engine shutdown systems are available for vocational vehicles in Phase 2. The additional GEM inputs that apply for vocational vehicles and other tractor regulatory subcategories for demonstrating compliance with Phase 2 standards are as follows:
