
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.6 Measurement and calculation procedures.
###### Heavy-duty trailers.

(e)This section describes the method for determining the fuel consumption performance rates for trailers. The NHTSA heavy-duty trailers fuel consumption performance rates correspond to the same requirements for EPA as specified in 40 CFR part 1037, subpart F.

(1) Select trailer family configurations that make up each of the manufacturer's regulatory subcategories of heavy-duty trailers in 40 CFR 1037.230 and ยง 535.4.

(2) Obtain preliminary approvals for trailer aerodynamic devices from EPA in accordance with 40 CFR 1037.150.

(3) For manufacturers voluntarily complying in model years 2018 through 2020, and for trailers complying with mandatory standards in model years 2021 and later, determine the COemissions and fuel consumption results for partial- and full-aero trailers using the equations and technologies specified in 40 CFR part 1037, subpart F. Use testing to determine input values in accordance with 40 CFR 1037.515.

(4) From the equation results, use the COfamily emissions level (FEL) to calculate equivalent fuel consumption FELs are expressed to the nearest 0.0001 gallons per 1000 ton-mile.

(i) For families containing multiple subfamilies, identify the FELs for each subfamily.

(ii) Calculate equivalent fuel consumption FEL values for trailer families. COFEL value (grams per 1000 ton-mile)/10,180 grams per 1000 ton-mile of diesel fuel) x (10) = Fuel consumption FEL value. The equivalent fuel consumption FELs are expressed to the nearest 0.0001 gallons per 1000 ton-mile.
