
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 37 - TRANSPORTATION SERVICES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES (ADA)
#### Subpart B - Applicability
##### ยง 37.37 Other applications.

(a) A private entity does not become subject to the requirements of this part for public entities, because it receives an operating subsidy from, is regulated by, or is granted a franchise or permit to operate by a public entity.

(b) Shuttle systems and other transportation services operated by privately-owned hotels, car rental agencies, historical or theme parks, and other public accommodations are subject to the requirements of this part for private entities not primarily engaged in the business of transporting people. Either the requirements for demand responsive or fixed route service may apply, depending upon the characteristics of each individual system of transportation.

(c) Conveyances used by members of the public primarily for recreational purposes rather than for transportation (e.g., amusement park rides, ski lifts, or historic rail cars or trolleys operated in museum settings) are not subject to the requirements of this part. Such conveyances are subject to Department of Justice regulations implementing title II or title III of the ADA (28 CFR part 35 or 36), as applicable.

(d) Transportation services provided by an employer solely for its own employees are not subject to the requirements of this part. Such services are subject to the regulations of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under title I of the ADA (29 CFR part 1630) and, with respect to public entities, the regulations of the Department of Justice under title II of the ADA (28 CFR part 35).

(e) Transportation systems operated by private clubs or establishments exempted from coverage under title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000-a(e)) or religious organizations or entities controlled by religious organizations are not subject to the requirements of this part.

(f) If a parent private company is not primarily engaged in the business of transporting people, or is not a place of public accommodation, but a subsidiary company or an operationally distinct segment of the company is primarily engaged in the business of transporting people, the transportation service provided by the subsidiary or segment is subject to the requirements of this part for private entities primarily engaged in the business of transporting people.

(g) High-speed rail systems operated by public entities are subject to the requirements of this part governing intercity rail systems.

(h) Private rail systems providing fixed route or specified public transportation service are subject to the requirements of ยง 37.107 with respect to the acquisition of rail passenger cars. Such systems are subject to the requirements of the regulations of the Department of Justice implementing title III of the ADA (28 CFR part 36) with respect to stations and other facilities.
