
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.6 Measurement and calculation procedures.
###### Heavy-duty engines.

(d)This section describes the method for determining equivalent fuel consumption family certification level (FCL) values for engine families of heavy-duty truck tractors and vocational vehicles. The NHTSA heavy-duty engine fuel consumption FCLs are determined from the EPA FCLs tested in accordance with 40 CFR 1036, subpart F. Each engine family must use the same primary intended service class as designated for EPA in accordance with 40 CFR 1036.140.

(1) Manufacturers must select emission-data engines representing the tested configuration of each engine family specified in 40 CFR part 86 and 40 CFR 1036.235 for engines in heavy-duty truck tractors and vocational vehicles that make up each of the manufacture's regulatory subcategories.

(2) Standards in ยง 535.5(d) apply to the COemissions rates for each emissions-data engine in an engine family subject to the procedures and equipment specified in 40 CFR part 1036, subpart F. Determine equivalent fuel consumptions rates using COemissions rates in grams per hp-hr measured to at least one more decimal place than that of the applicable EPA standard in 40 CFR 1036.108.

(i) Use the COemissions test results for engines running on each fuel type for conventional, dedicated, multi-fueled (dual-fuel, and flexible-fuel) engines as specified in 40 CFR part 1036, subpart F.

(ii) Use the COemissions result for multi-fueled engines using the same weighted fuel mixture emission results as specified in 40 CFR 1036.235 and 40 CFR part 1036, subpart F.

(iii) Use the COemissions test results for hybrid engines as described in 40 CFR 1036.525.

(iv) All electric vehicles are deemed to have zero emissions of COand zero fuel consumption. No emission or fuel consumption testing is required for such electric vehicles.

(3) Use the COemissions test results for tractor engine families in accordance with 40 CFR 1036.501 and for vocational vehicle engine families in accordance with 40 CFR part 86, subpart N, for each heavy-duty engine regulatory subcategory for each model year.

(i) If a manufacturer certifies an engine family for use both as a vocational engine and as a tractor engine, the manufacturer must split the family into two separate subfamilies in accordance with 40 CFR 1036.230. The manufacturer may assign the numbers and configurations of engines within the respective subfamilies at any time prior to the submission of the end-of-year report required by 40 CFR 1036.730 and ยง 535.8. The manufacturer must track into which type of vehicle each engine is installed, although EPA may allow the manufacturer to use statistical methods to determine this for a fraction of its engines.

(ii) The following engines are excluded from the engine families used to determine fuel consumption FCL values and the benefit for these engines is determined as an advanced technology credit under the ABT provisions provided in ยง 535.7(e); these provisions apply only for the Phase 1 program:

(A) Engines certified as hybrid engines or power packs.

(B) Engines certified as hybrid engines designed with PTO capability and that are sold with the engine coupled to a transmission.

(C) Engines with Rankine cycle waste heat recovery.

(4) Manufacturers generating COemissions rates to demonstrate compliance to EPA vehicle standards for model years 2021 and later, using engine fuel maps determined in accordance with 40 CFR 1036.535 and 1036.540 or engine powertrain results configuration, must use the same compliance pathway and model years for certifying under the NHTSA program. Manufacturers may omit providing equivalent fuel consumption FCLs under this section if all of its engines will be installed in vehicles that are certified based on powertrain testing as described in 40 CFR 1037.550.

(5) Calculate equivalent fuel consumption values from the emissions COFCLs levels for certified engines, in gallons per 100 hp-hr and round each fuel consumption value to the nearest 0.0001 gallon per 100 hp-hr.

(i) Calculate equivalent fuel consumption FCL values for compression-ignition engines and alternative fuel compression-ignition engines. COFCL value (grams per hp-hr)/10,180 grams per gallon of diesel fuel) x (10) = Fuel consumption FCL value (gallons per 100 hp-hr).

(ii) Calculate equivalent fuel consumption FCL values for spark-ignition engines and alternative fuel spark-ignition engines. COFCL value (grams per hp-hr)/((8,887 grams per gallon of gasoline fuel) x (10)) = Fuel consumption FCL value (gallons per 100 hp-hr).

(iii) Manufacturers may carryover fuel consumption data from a previous model year if allowed to carry over emissions data for EPA in accordance with 40 CFR 1036.235.

(iv) If a manufacturer uses an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and subsequently the data is rejected by EPA, NHTSA will also reject the data.
