
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### § 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### Averaging.

(2)Averaging is the summing of a manufacturer's positive and negative FCCs for engines or vehicle families or fleets within an averaging set. The principle averaging sets are defined in § 535.4.

(i) A credit surplus occurs when the net sum of the manufacturer's generated credits for engines or vehicle families or fleets within an averaging set is positive (a zero credit balance is when the sum equals zero).

(ii) A credit deficit occurs when the net sum of the manufacturer's generated credits for engines or vehicle families or fleets within an averaging set is negative.

(iii) Positive credits, other than advanced technology credits, generated and calculated within an averaging set may only be used to offset negative credits within the same averaging set.

(iv) Manufacturers may certify one or more vehicle families (or subfamilies) to an FEL above the applicable fuel consumption standard, subject to any applicable FEL caps and other provisions allowed by EPA in 40 CFR parts 1036 and 1037, if the manufacturer shows in its application for certification to EPA that its projected balance of all FCC transactions in that model year is greater than or equal to zero or that a negative balance is allowed by EPA under 40 CFR 1036.745 and 1037.745.

(v) If a manufacturer certifies a vehicle family to an FEL that exceeds the otherwise applicable standard, it must obtain enough FCC to offset the vehicle family's deficit by the due date of its final report required in § 535.8. The emission credits used to address the deficit may come from other vehicle families that generate FCCs in the same model year (or from the next three subsequent model years), from banked FCCs from previous model years, or from FCCs generated in the same or previous model years that it obtained through trading. Note that the option for using banked or traded credits does not apply for trailers.

(vi) Manufacturers may certify a vehicle or engine family using an FEL (as described in § 535.6) below the fuel consumption standard (as described in § 535.5) and choose not to generate conventional fuel consumption credits for that family. Manufacturers do not need to calculate fuel consumption credits for those families and do not need to submit or keep the associated records described in § 535.8 for these families. Manufacturers participating in NHTSA's FCC program must provide reports as specified in § 535.8.
