
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### FCC credit plan.

(6)(i) Each model year manufacturers submit credit plan in their certificates of conformity as required in 40 CFR 1036.725(b)(2) and 40 CFR 1037.725(b)(2). The plan is required to contain equivalent fuel consumption information in accordance ยง 535.8(c). The plan must include:

(A) Detailed calculations of projected emission and fuel consumption credits (positive or negative) based on projected U.S.-directed production volumes. The agencies may require a manufacturer to include similar calculations from its other engine or vehicle families to project its net credit balances for the model year. If a manufacturer projects negative emission and/or fuel consumption credits for a family, it must state the source of positive emission and/or fuel consumption credits it expects to use to offset the negative credits demonstrating how it plans to resolve any credit deficits that might occur for a model year within a period of up to three model years after that deficit has occurred.

(B) Actual emissions and fuel consumption credit balances, credit transactions, and credit trades.

(ii) Manufacturers are required to provide updated credit plans after receiving their final verified reports from EPA and NHTSA after the end of each model year.

(iii) The agencies may determine that a manufacturer's plan is unreasonable or unrealistic based on a consideration of past and projected use of specific technologies, the historical sales mix of its vehicle models, subsequent failure to follow any submitted plans, and limited expected access to traded credits.

(iv) The agencies may also consider the plan unreasonable if the manufacturer's credit deficit increases from one model year to the next. The agencies may require that the manufacturers must send interim reports describing its progress toward resolving its credit deficit over the course of a model year.

(v) If NHTSA determines that a manufacturers plan is unreasonable or unrealistic, the manufacturer is deemed as not comply with fuel consumption standards as specified in ยง 535.10(c) and the manufacturer may be liable for civil penalties.
