
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### Trading.

(4)Trading is a transaction that transfers banked FCCs between manufacturers or other entities in the same averaging set. A manufacturer may use traded FCCs for averaging, banking, or further trading transactions.

(i) Manufacturers may only trade banked credits to other manufacturers to use for compliance with fuel consumption standards. Traded FCCs, other than advanced technology credits, may be used only within the averaging set in which they were generated. Manufacturers may only trade credits to other entities for the purpose of expiring credits.

(ii) Advanced technology credits can be traded across different averaging sets.

(iii) The agencies may revoke traded FCCs at any time if they are unable to verify them after reviewing the manufacturer's reports or auditing its records.

(iv) If a negative FCC balance results from a transaction, both the buyer and seller are liable, except in cases the agencies deem to involve fraud. See ยง 535.9 for cases involving fraud. EPA also may void the certificates of all vehicle families participating in a trade that results in a manufacturer having a negative balance of emission credits. See 40 CFR 1037.745.

(v) Trailer manufacturers generating credits in paragraph (e) of this section starting in model year 2027 may not bank or trade credits. These manufacturers may only use credits for the purpose of averaging.

(vi) Manufacturers with deficits or projecting deficits before or during a production model year may not trade credits until its available credits exceed the deficit. Manufacturers with a deficit may not trade credits if the deadline to offset that credit deficit has passed.
