
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### Banking.

(3)Banking is the retention of surplus FCC in an averaging set by the manufacturer for use in future model years for the purpose of averaging or trading.

(i) Surplus credits may be banked by the manufacturer for use in future model years, or traded, given the restriction that the credits have an expiration date of five model years after the year in which the credits are generated. For example, banked credits earned in model year 2014 may be utilized through model year 2019. Surplus credits will become banked credits unless a manufacturer contacts NHTSA to expire its credits.

(ii) Surplus credits become earned or usable banked FCCs when the manufacturer's final report is approved by both agencies. However, the agencies may revoke these FCCs at any time if they are unable to verify them after reviewing the manufacturer's reports or auditing its records.

(iii) Banked FCC retain the designation from the averaging set and model year in which they were generated.

(iv) Banked credits retain the designation of the averaging set in which they were generated.

(v) Trailer manufacturers generating credits in paragraph (e) of this section may not bank credits except to resolve credit deficits in the same model year or from up to three prior model years.
