
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### ABT provisions for trailers.

(e)(1) Manufacturers cannot use averaging for non-box trailers, partial-aero trailers, or non-aero trailers or cannot use fuel consumption credits for banking or trading. Starting in model year 2027, full aero box van manufactures may average, credits.

(2) Calculate the fuel consumption credits in a model year for each participating family or subfamily consisting of full aero box trailers (vehicles) in each averaging set (as defined in ยง 535.4) using the equation in this section. Each designated vehicle family or subfamily has a "family emissions limit" (FEL) which is compared to the associated regulatory subcategory standard. An FEL that falls below the regulatory subcategory standard creates "positive credits," while fuel consumption level of a family group above the standard creates a "negative credits." The value of credits generated for each family or subfamily in a model year is calculated as follows and must be rounded to nearest whole number:

(3) Trailer manufacturers may not generate advanced technology credits.

(4) Manufacturers shall sum all negative and positive credits for each vehicle family within the applicable averaging set to obtain the total credit balance for the model year before rounding. Calculate the total credits generated in a model year for each averaging set using the following equation:

(5) Trailer manufacturers may not bank credits within an averaging set but surplus fuel consumption credits from a given model year may be used to offset deficits from earlier model years.
