
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### ABT provisions for heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans.

(b)(1) Calculate fuel consumption credits in a model year for one fleet of conventional heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans and if designated by the manufacturer another consisting of advance technology vehicles for the averaging set as defined in ยง 535.4. Calculate credits for each fleet separately using the following equation:

(2) Adjust the fuel consumption performance of subconfigurations with advanced technology for determining the fleet average actual fuel consumption value as specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section and 40 CFR 86.1819-14(d)(7). Advanced technology vehicles can be separated in a different fleet for the purpose of applying credit incentives as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(3) Adjust the fuel consumption performance for subconfigurations with innovative technology. A manufacturer is eligible to increase the fuel consumption performance of heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans in accordance with procedures established by EPA set forth in 40 CFR part 600. The eligibility of a manufacturer to increase its fuel consumption performance through use of an off-cycle technology requires an application request made to EPA and NHTSA in accordance with 40 CFR 86.1869-12 and an approval granted by the agencies. For off-cycle technologies that are covered under 40 CFR 86.1869-12, NHTSA will collaborate with EPA regarding NHTSA's evaluation of the specific off-cycle technology to ensure its impact on fuel consumption and the suitability of using the off-cycle technology to adjust fuel consumption performance. NHTSA will provide its views on the suitability of the technology for that purpose to EPA. NHTSA will apply the criteria in section (f) of this section in granting or denying off-cycle requests.

(4) Fuel consumption credits may be generated for vehicles certified in model year 2013 to the model year 2014 standards in ยง 535.5(a). If a manufacturer chooses to generate COemission credits under EPA's provisions in 40 CFR part 86, it may also voluntarily generate early credits under the NHTSA fuel consumption program. To do so, a manufacturer must certify its entire U.S.-directed production volume of vehicles in its fleet. The same production volume restrictions specified in 40 CFR 1037.150(a)(2) relating to when test groups are certified apply to the NHTSA early credit provisions. Credits are calculated as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section relative to the fleet standard that would apply for model year 2014 using the model year 2013 production volumes. Surplus credits generated under this paragraph (b)(4) are available for banking or trading. Credit deficits for an averaging set prior to model year 2014 do not carry over to model year 2014. These credits may be used to show compliance with the standards of this part for 2014 and later model years. Once a manufacturer opts into the NHTSA program they must stay in the program for all of the optional model years and remain standardized with the same implementation approach being followed to meet the EPA COemission program.

(5) Calculate the averaging set credit value by summing together the fleet credits for conventional and advanced technology vehicles including any adjustments for innovative technologies. Manufacturers may sum conventional and innovative technology credits before adding any advanced technology credits in each averaging set.

(6) For credits that manufacturers calculate based on a useful life of 120,000 miles, multiply any banked credits carried forward for use in model year 2021 and later by 1.25. For credit deficits that a manufacturer calculates based on a useful life of 120,000 miles and that it offsets with credits originally earned in model year 2021 and later, it multiplies the credit deficit by 1.25.
