
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### Additional credit provisions,Advanced technology credits.

(f)-(1)(i) For the Phase 1 program, manufacturers of heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans, vocational vehicles, tractors and the associated engines showing improvements in COemissions and fuel consumption using hybrid vehicles with regenerative braking, vehicles equipped with Rankine-cycle engines, electric vehicles and fuel cell vehicles are eligible for advanced technology credits. Manufacturers shall use sound engineering judgment to determine the performance of the vehicle or engine with advanced technology. Advanced technology credits for vehicles or engines complying with Phase 1 standards may be increased by a 1.5 multiplier. Manufacturers may not apply this multiplier in addition to any early-credit multipliers. The maximum amount of credits a manufacturer may bring into the service class group that contains the heavy-duty pickup and van averaging set is 5.89 &#xB7; 10gallons (for advanced technology credits based upon compression-ignition engines) or 6.76 &#xB7; 10gallons (for advanced technology credits based upon spark-ignition engines) per model year as specified in 40 CFR part 86 for heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans, 40 CFR 1036.740 for engines and 40 CFR 1037.740 for tractors and vocational vehicles. The specified limit does not cap the amount of advanced technology credits that can be used across averaging sets within the same service class group. Advanced technology credits can be used to offset negative credits in the same averaging set or other averaging sets. A manufacturer must first apply advanced technology credits to any deficits in the same averaging set before applying them to other averaging.
