
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### Credits for small business manufacturers.

(9)Small manufacturers may generate fuel consumption credits for natural gas-fueled vocational vehicles as follows:

(i) Small manufacturers may certify their vehicles instead of relying on the exemption of ยง 535.3.

(ii) Use Phase 1 GEM to determine a fuel consumption level for vehicle, then multiply this value by the engine's FCL for fuel consumption and divide by the engine's applicable fuel consumption standard.

(iii) Use the value determined in paragraph (ii) in the credit equation specified in part (c) of this section in place of the term (Std - FEL).

(iv) The following provisions apply uniquely to small businesses under the custom-chassis standards of ยง 535.5(b)(6):

(A) Manufacturers may use fuel consumption credits generated under paragraph (c) of this section, including banked or traded credits from any averaging set. Such credits remain subject to other limitations that apply under this part.

(B) Manufacturers may produce up to 200 drayage tractors in a given model year to the standards described in ยง 535.5(b)(6) for "other buses". Treat these drayage tractors as being in their own averaging set.
