
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### § 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### ABT provisions for vocational vehicles and tractors.

(c)(1) Calculate the fuel consumption credits in a model year for each participating family or subfamily consisting of conventional vehicles in each averaging set (as defined in § 535.4) using the equation in this section. Each designated vehicle family or subfamily has a "family emissions limit" (FEL) that is compared to the associated regulatory subcategory standard. An FEL that falls below the regulatory subcategory standard creates "positive credits," while fuel consumption level of a family group above the standard creates a "negative credits." The value of credits generated for each family or subfamily in a model year is calculated as follows and must be rounded to nearest whole number:

(i) Calculate the value of credits generated in a model year for each family or subfamily consisting of vehicles with advanced technology vehicles in each averaging set using the equation above and the guidelines provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Manufacturers may generate credits for advanced technology vehicles using incentives specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(ii) Calculate the value of credits generated in a model year for each family or subfamily consisting of vehicles with off-cycle technology vehicles in each averaging set using the equation above and the guidelines provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(2) Manufacturers must sum all negative and positive credits for each vehicle family within each applicable averaging set to obtain the total credit balance for the model year before rounding. The sum of fuel consumptions credits must be rounded to the nearest gallon. Calculate the total credits generated in a model year for each averaging set using the following equation:

(3) Manufacturers can sum conventional and innovative technology credits before adding any advanced technology credits in each averaging set.

(4) If a manufacturer chooses to generate COemission credits under EPA provisions of 40 CFR 1037.150(a), it may also voluntarily generate early credits under the NHTSA fuel consumption program as follows:

(i) Fuel consumption credits may be generated for vehicles certified in model year 2013 to the model year 2014 standards in § 535.5(b) and (c). To do so, a manufacturer must certify its entire U.S.-directed production volume of vehicles. The same production volume restrictions specified in 40 CFR 1037.150(a)(1) relating to when test groups are certified apply to the NHTSA early credit provisions. Credits are calculated as specified in paragraph (c)(11) of this section relative to the standards that would apply for model year 2014. Surplus credits generated under this paragraph (c)(4) may be increased by a factor of 1.5 for determining total available credits for banking or trading. For example, if a manufacturer has 10 gallons of surplus credits for model year 2013, it may bank 15 gallons of credits. Credit deficits for an averaging set prior to model year 2014 do not carry over to model year 2014. These credits may be used to show compliance with the standards of this part for 2014 and later model years. Once a manufacturer opts into the NHTSA program they must stay in the program for all of the optional model years and remain standardized with the same implementation approach being followed to meet the EPA COemission program.

(ii) A tractor manufacturer may generate fuel consumption credits for the number of additional SmartWay designated tractors (relative to its MY 2012 production), provided that credits are not generated for those vehicles under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Calculate credits for each regulatory sub-category relative to the standard that would apply in model year 2014 using the equations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Use a production volume equal to the number of verified model year 2013 SmartWay tractors minus the number of verified model year 2012 SmartWay tractors. A manufacturer may bank credits equal to the surplus credits generated under this paragraph multiplied by 1.50. A manufacturer's 2012 and 2013 model years must be equivalent in length. Once a manufacturer opts into the NHTSA program they must stay in the program for all of the optional model years and remain standardized with the same implementation approach being followed to meet the EPA COemission program.

(5) If a manufacturer generates credits from vehicles certified for advanced technology in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a multiplier of 1.5 can be used, but this multiplier cannot be used on the same credits for which the early credit multiplier is used.

(6) For model years 2012 and later, manufacturers may generate or use fuel consumption credits for averaging to demonstrate compliance with the alternative standards as described in § 535.5(b)(6) of this part. Manufacturers can specify a Family Emission Limit (FEL) for fuel consumption for each vehicle subfamily. The FEL may not be less than the result of emissions and fuel consumption modeling as described in 40 CFR 1037.520 and § 535.6. These FELs serve as the fuel consumption standards for the vehicle subfamily instead of the standards specified in this § 535.5(b)(6). Manufacturers may not use averaging for motor homes, coach buses, emergency vehicles or concrete mixers meeting standards under § 535.5(b)(5).

(7) Manufacturers may not use averaging for vehicles meeting standards § 535.5(b)(6)(iv) through (vi), and manufacturers may not use fuel consumption credits for banking or trading for any vehicles certified under § 535.5(b)(6).

(8) Manufacturers certifying any vehicles under § 535.5(b)(6) must consider each separate vehicle type (or group of vehicle types) as a separate averaging set.
