
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### Transition to Phase 2 standards.

(8)The following provisions allow for enhanced use of fuel consumption credits from Phase 1 tractors and vocational vehicles for meeting the Phase 2 standards:

(i) Fuel consumption credits a manufacturer generates for light and medium heavy-duty vocational vehicles in model years 2018 through 2021 may be used through model year 2027, instead of being limited to a five-year credit life as specified in this part.

(ii) The manufacturer may use the off-cycle provisions of paragraph (f) of this section to apply technologies to Phase 1 vehicles as follows:

(A) A manufacturer may apply an improvement factor of 0.988 for tractors and vocational vehicles with automatic tire inflation systems on all axles.

(B) For vocational vehicles with automatic engine shutdown systems that conform with 40 CFR 1037.660, a manufacturer may apply an improvement factor of 0.95.

(C) For vocational vehicles with stop-start systems that conform with 40 CFR 1037.660, a manufacturer may apply an improvement factor of 0.92.

(D) For vocational vehicles with neutral-idle systems conforming with 40 CFR 1037.660, manufacturers may apply an improvement factor of 0.98. Manufacturers may adjust this improvement factor if we approve a partial reduction under 40 CFR 1037.660(a)(2); for example, if the manufacturer's design reduces fuel consumption by half as much as shifting to neutral, it may apply an improvement factor of 0.99.
