
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### § 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### ABT provisions for heavy-duty engines.

(d)(1) Calculate the fuel consumption credits in a model year for each participating family or subfamily consisting of engines in each averaging set (as defined in § 535.4) using the equation in this section. Each designated engine family has a "family certification level" (FCL) which is compared to the associated regulatory subcategory standard. A FCL that falls below the regulatory subcategory standard creates "positive credits," while fuel consumption level of a family group above the standard creates a "credit shortfall." The value of credits generated in a model year for each engine family or subfamily is calculated as follows and must be rounded to nearest whole number:

(i) Calculate the value of credits generated in a model year for each family or subfamily consisting of engines with advanced technology vehicles in each averaging set using the equation above and the guidelines provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Manufacturers may generate credits for advanced technology vehicles using incentives specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(ii) Calculate the value of credits generated in a model year for each family or subfamily consisting of engines with off-cycle technology vehicles in each averaging set using the equation above and the guidelines provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(2) Manufacturers shall sum all negative and positive credits for each engine family within the applicable averaging set to obtain the total credit balance for the model year before rounding. The sum of fuel consumptions credits should be rounded to the nearest gallon.

Calculate the total credits generated in a model year for each averaging set using the following equation:

(3) The provisions of this section apply to manufacturers utilizing the compression-ignition engine voluntary alternate standard provisions specified in § 535.5(d)(4) as follows:

(i) Manufacturers may not certify engines to the alternate standards if they are part of an averaging set in which they carry a balance of banked credits. For purposes of this section, manufacturers are deemed to carry credits in an averaging set if they carry credits from advance technology that are allowed to be used in that averaging set.

(ii) Manufacturers may not bank fuel consumption credits for any engine family in the same averaging set and model year in which it certifies engines to the alternate standards. This means a manufacturer may not bank advanced technology credits in a model year it certifies any engines to the alternate standards.

(iii) Note that the provisions of paragraph (d)(10) of this section apply with respect to credit deficits generated while utilizing alternate standards.

(4) Where a manufacturer has chosen to comply with the EPA alternative compression-ignition engine phase-in standard provisions in 40 CFR 1036.150(e), and has optionally decided to follow the same path under the NHTSA fuel consumption program, it must certify all of its model year 2013 compression-ignition engines within a given averaging set to the applicable alternative standards in § 535.5(d)(5). Engines certified to these standards are not eligible for early credits under paragraph (d)(14) of this section. Credits are calculated using the same equation provided in paragraph (d)(11) of this section.

(5) If a manufacturer chooses to generate early COemission credits under EPA provisions of 40 CFR 1036.150, it may also voluntarily generate early credits under the NHTSA fuel consumption program. Fuel consumption credits may be generated for engines certified in model year 2013 (2015 for spark-ignition engines) to the standards in § 535.5(d). To do so, a manufacturer must certify its entire U.S.-directed production volume of engines except as specified in 40 CFR 1036.150(a)(2). Credits are calculated as specified in paragraph (d)(11) of this section relative to the standards that would apply for model year 2014 (2016 for spark-ignition engines). Surplus credits generated under this paragraph (d)(3) may be increased by a factor of 1.5 for determining total available credits for banking or trading. For example, if a manufacturer has 10 gallons of surplus credits for model year 2013, it may bank 15 gallons of credits. Credit deficits for an averaging set prior to model year 2014 (2016 for spark-ignition engines) do not carry over to model year 2014 (2016 for spark-ignition engines). These credits may be used to show compliance with the standards of this part for 2014 and later model years. Once a manufacturer opts into the NHTSA program they must stay in the program for all of the optional model years and remain standardized with the same implementation approach being followed to meet the EPA COemission program.

(6) Manufacturers may generate fuel consumption credits from an engine family subject to spark-ignition standards for exchanging with other engine families only if the engines in the family are gasoline-fueled.

(7) Engine credits generated for compression-ignition engines in the 2020 and earlier model years may be used in model year 2021 and later only if the credit-generating engines were certified to the tractor standards in § 535.5(d) and 40 CFR 1036.108. Manufacturers may otherwise use fuel consumption credits generated in one model year without adjustment for certifying vehicles in a later model year, even if fuel consumption standards are different.

(8) Engine families manufacturers certify with a nonconformance penalty under 40 CFR part 86, subpart L, and may not generate fuel consumption credits.
