
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### 2

() Whether or not the technology has a fail-safe provision. If no fail-safe provision exists, the manufacturer must explain why not and whether a failure of the innovative technology would affect the safety of the vehicle.

(C) Manufacturers requesting approval for innovative technology credits are required to provide documentation in accordance with 40 CFR 86.1869-12, 1036.610, and 1037.610.

(D) Credits will be accepted on a one-for-one basis expressed in terms of gallons in comparison to those approved by EPA.

(E) For the heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans, the average fuel consumption will be calculated as a separate credit amount (rounded to the nearest whole number) using the following equation:

(F) NHTSA will not approve innovative technology credits for technology that is related to crash-avoidance technologies, safety critical systems or systems affecting safety-critical functions, or technologies designed for the purpose of reducing the frequency of vehicle crashes.

(iv) Manufacturers normally may not calculate off-cycle credits or improvement factors under this section for technologies represented by GEM, but the agencies may allow a manufacturer to do so by averaging multiple GEM runs for special technologies for which a single GEM run cannot accurately reflect in-use performance. For example, if a manufacturer use an idle-reduction technology that is effective 80 percent of the time, the agencies may allow a manufacturer to run GEM with the technology active and with it inactive, and then apply an 80% weighting factor to calculate the off-cycle credit or improvement factor. A may need to perform testing to establish proper weighting factors or otherwise quantify the benefits of the special technologies.

(v) A manufacturer may apply the off-cycle provisions of this paragraph (2) and 40 CFR 1037.610 to trailers as early as model year 2018 as follows:

(A) A manufacturer may account for weight reduction based on measured values instead of using the weight reductions specified in 40 CFR 1037.515. Quantify the weight reduction by measuring the weight of a trailer in a certified configuration and comparing it to the weight of an equivalent trailer without weight-reduction technologies. This qualifies as A to B testing this part. Use good engineering judgment to select an equivalent trailer representing a baseline configuration. Use the calculated weight reduction in the equation specified in 40 CFR 1037.515 to calculate the trailer's COemission rate and calculate an equivalent fuel consumption rate.

(B) If a manufacturer's off-cycle technology reduces emissions and fuel consumption in a way that is proportional to measured rates as described in 40 CFR 1037.610(b)(1), multiply the trailer's COfuel consumption rate by the appropriate improvement factor.

(C) If a manufacturer's off-cycle technology does not yield emission and fuel consumption reductions that are proportional to measured rates, as described in 40 CFR 1037.610(b)(2), calculate an adjusted COfuel consumption rate for trailers by subtracting the appropriate off-cycle credit.
