
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.7 Averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) credit program.
###### Innovative and off-cycle technology credits.

(2)This provision allows fuel saving innovative and off-cycle engine and vehicle technologies to generate fuel consumption credits comparable to COemission credits consistent with the provisions of 40 CFR 86.1819-14(d)(13) (for heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans), 40 CFR 1036.610 (for engines), and 40 CFR 1037.610 (for vocational vehicles and tractors).

(i) For model years 2013 through 2020, manufacturers may generate innovative technology credits for introducing technologies that were not in-common use for heavy-duty tractor, vocational vehicles or engines before model year 2010 and that are not reflected in the EPA specified test procedures. Upon identification and joint approval with EPA, NHTSA will allow equivalent fuel consumption credits into its program to those allowed by EPA for manufacturers seeking to obtain innovative technology credits in a given model year. Such credits must remain within the same regulatory subcategory in which the credits were generated. NHTSA will adopt fuel consumption credits depending upon whether-

(A) The technology has a direct impact upon reducing fuel consumption performance; and

(B) The manufacturer has provided sufficient information to make sound engineering judgments on the impact of the technology in reducing fuel consumption performance.

(ii) For model years 2021 and later, manufacturers may generate off-cycle technology credits for introducing technologies that are not reflected in the EPA specified test procedures. Upon identification and joint approval with EPA, NHTSA will allow equivalent fuel consumption credits into its program to those allowed by EPA for manufacturers seeking to obtain innovative technology credits in a given model year. Such credits must remain within the same regulatory subcategory in which the credits were generated. NHTSA will adopt fuel consumption credits depending upon whether-

(A) The technology meets paragraph (f)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(B) For heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans, manufacturers using the 5-cycle test to quantify the benefit of a technology are not required to obtain approval from the agencies to generate results.

(iii) The following provisions apply to all innovative and off-cycle technologies:

(A) Technologies found to be defective, or identified as a part of NHTSA's safety defects program, and technologies that are not performing as intended will have the values of approved off-cycle credits removed from the manufacturer's credit balance.

(B) Approval granted for innovative and off-cycle technology credits under NHTSA's fuel efficiency program does not affect or relieve the obligation to comply with the Vehicle Safety Act (49 U.S.C. Chapter 301), including the "make inoperative" prohibition (49 U.S.C. 30122), and all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards issued thereunder (FMVSSs) (49 CFR part 571). In order to generate off-cycle or innovative technology credits manufacturers must state-
