
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.8 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
###### Contents.

(2)Each EOY and final report must be submitted including the following fuel consumption information for each model year. EOY reports contain preliminary final estimates and final reports must include the manufacturer's final compliance information.

(i) Engine and vehicle family designations and averaging sets.

(ii) Engine and vehicle regulatory subcategory and fuel consumption standards including any alternative standards used.

(iii) Engine and vehicle family FCLs and FELs in terms of fuel consumption.

(iv) Production volumes for engines and vehicles.

(v) A summary as specified in paragraph (g)(7) of this section describing the vocational vehicles and vocational tractors that were exempted as heavy-duty off-road vehicles. This applies to manufacturers participating and not participating in the ABT program.

(vi) A summary describing any advanced or innovative technology engines or vehicles including alternative fueled vehicles that were produced for the model year identifying the approaches used to determinate compliance and the production volumes.

(vii) A list of each unique subconfiguration included in a manufacturer's fleet of heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans identifying the attribute based-values (GVWR, GCWR, Curb Weight, and drive configurations) and standards. This provision applies only to manufacturers producing heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans.

(viii) The fuel consumption fleet average standard derived from the unique vehicle configurations. This provision applies only to manufacturers producing heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans.

(ix) The subconfiguration and test group production volumes. This provision applies only to manufacturers producing heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans.

(x) The fuel consumption test group results and fleet average performance. This provision applies only to manufacturers producing heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans.

(xi) Manufacturers may correct errors in EOY and final reports as follows:

(A) Manufacturers may correct any errors in their end-of-year report when preparing the final report, as long as manufacturers send us the final report by the time it is due.

(B) If manufacturers or the agencies determine within 270 days after the end of the model year that errors mistakenly decreased he manufacturer's balance of fuel consumption credits, manufacturers may correct the errors and recalculate the balance of its fuel consumption credits. Manufacturers may not make any corrections for errors that are determined more than 270 days after the end of the model year. If manufacturers report a negative balance of fuel consumption credits, NHTSA may disallow corrections under this paragraph (d)(2)(xi)(B).

(C) If manufacturers or the agencies determine any time that errors mistakenly increased its balance of fuel consumption credits, manufacturers must correct the errors and recalculate the balance of fuel consumption credits.

(xii) Under limited conditions, NHTSA may also ask a manufacturer to provide additional information directly to the Administrator if necessary to verify the fuel consumption requirements of this regulation.
