
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.8 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
###### Contents.

(2)Each application for certificates of conformity submitted to EPA must include the following equivalent fuel consumption.

(i) Equivalent fuel consumption values for emissions COFCLs values used to certify each engine family in accordance with 40 CFR 1036.205(e). This provision applies only to manufacturers producing heavy-duty engines.

(ii) Equivalent fuel consumption values for emission COdata engines used to comply with emission standards in 40 CFR 1036.108. This provision applies only to manufacturers producing heavy-duty engines.

(iii) Equivalent fuel consumption values for emissions COFELs values used to certify each vehicle families or subfamilies in accordance with 40 CFR 1037.205(k). This provision applies only to manufacturers producing vocational vehicles and tractors.

(iv) Report modeling results for ten configurations in terms of COemissions and equivalent fuel consumption results in accordance with 40 CFR 1037.205(o). Include modeling inputs and detailed descriptions of how they were derived. This provision applies only to manufacturers producing vocational vehicles and tractors.

(v) Credit plans including the fuel consumption credit plan described in ยง 535.7(a).
