
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### ยง 535.8 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
###### Recordkeeping.

(j)NHTSA has the same recordkeeping requirements as the EPA, specified in 40 CFR 86.1865-12(k), 1036.250, 1036.735, 1036.825, 1037.250, 1037.735, and 1037.825. The agencies each reserve the right to request information contained in reports separately.

(1) Manufacturers must organize and maintain records for NHTSA as described in this section. NHTSA in conjunction or separately from EPA may review a manufacturers records at any time.

(2) Keep the records required by this section for at least eight years after the due date for the end-of-year report. Manufacturers may not use fuel consumption credits for any engines if it does not keep all the records required under this section. Manufacturers must therefore keep these records to continue to bank valid credits. Store these records in any electronic format and on any media, as long as the manufacturer can promptly send the agencies organized records in English if the agencies ask for them. Manufacturers must keep these records readily available. NHTSA may review them at any time.

(3) Keep a copy of the reports required in ยง 535.8 and 40 CFR 1036.725,1036.730, 1037.725 and 1037.730.

(4) Keep records of the vehicles and engine identification number (usually the serial number) for each vehicle and engine produced that generates or uses fuel consumption credits under the ABT program. Manufacturers may identify these numbers as a range. If manufacturers change the FEL after the start of production, identify the date started using each FEL/FCL and the range of vehicles or engine identification numbers associated with each FEL/FCL. Manufacturers must also identify the purchaser and destination for each vehicle and engine produced to the extent this information is available.

(5) The agencies may require manufacturers to keep additional records or to send relevant information not required by this section in accordance with each agency's authority.

(6) If collected separately and NHTSA finds that information is provided fraudulent or grossly negligent or otherwise provided in bad faith, the manufacturer may be liable to civil penalties in accordance with each agency's authority.
