
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 535 - MEDIUM- AND HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLE FUEL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
##### § 535.10 How do manufacturers comply with fuel consumption standards?
###### End-of-the-year process.

(c)Manufacturers comply with fuel consumption standards after the end of each model year, if-

(1) For heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans, the manufacturer's fleet average performance, as determined in § 535.6, is less than the fleet average standard; or

(2) For truck tractors, vocational vehicles, engines and box trailers the manufacturer's fuel consumption performance for each vehicle or engine family (or sub-family), as determined in § 535.6, is lower than the applicable regulatory subcategory standards in § 535.5.

(3) For non-box and non-aero trailers, a manufacturer is considered in compliance with fuel consumption standards if all trailers meet the specified standards in § 535.5(e)(1)(i).

(4) NHTSA will use the EPA final verified values as specified in 40 CFR 86.1819, 40 CFR 1036.755, and 1037.755 for making final determinations on whether vehicles and engines comply with fuel consumption standards.

(5) A manufacturer fails to comply with fuel consumption standards if its final reports are not provided in accordance with § 535.8 and 40 CFR 86.1865, 1036.730, and 1037.730. Manufacturers not providing complete or accurate final reports or any plans by the required deadlines do not comply with fuel consumption standards. A manufacturer that is unable to provide any emissions results along with comparable fuel consumption values must obtain permission for EPA to exclude the results prior to the deadline for submitting final reports.

(6) A manufacturer that would otherwise fail to directly comply with fuel consumption standards as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section may use one or more of the credit flexibilities provided under the NHTSA averaging, banking and trading program, as specified in § 535.7, but must offset all credit deficits in its averaging sets to achieve compliance.

(7) A manufacturer failing to comply with the provisions specified in this part may be liable to pay civil penalties in accordance with § 535.9.

(8) A manufacturer may also be liable to pay civil penalties if found by EPA or NHTSA to have provided false information as identified through NHTSA or EPA enforcement audits or new vehicle verification testing as specified in § 535.9 and 40 CFR parts 86, 1036, and 1037.
