
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 537 - AUTOMOTIVE FUEL ECONOMY REPORTS
##### ยง 537.7 Pre-model year and mid-model year reports.
###### Model type and configuration fuel economy and technical information.

(c)(1) For each model type of the manufacturer's automobiles, the manufacturers must provide the information specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section in tabular form. List the model types in order of increasing average inertia weight from top to bottom down the left side of the table and list the information categories in the order specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section from left to right across the top of the table. For model year 2023 and later, CAFE reports required by this part, shall for each model type of the manufacturer's automobiles, provide the information in specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section in accordance with the NHTSA CAFE Projections Reporting Template (OMB Control No. 2127-0019, NHTSA Form 1474) and list the model types in order of increasing average inertia weight from top to bottom.

(2)(i) Combined fuel economy; and

(ii) Projected sales for the current model year and total sales of all model types.

(3) For pre-model year reports only through model year 2022, for each vehicle configuration whose fuel economy was used to calculate the fuel economy values for a model type under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, manufacturers must provide the information specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section in accordance with the NHTSA CAFE Projections Reporting Template (OMB Control No. 2127-0019, NHTSA Form 1474).

(4)(i) Loaded vehicle weight;

(ii) Equivalent test weight;

(iii) Engine displacement, liters;

(iv) Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) net rated power, kilowatts;

(v) SAE net horsepower;

(vi) Engine code;

(vii) Fuel system (number of carburetor barrels or, if fuel injection is used, so indicate);

(viii) Emission control system;

(ix) Transmission class;

(x) Number of forward speeds;

(xi) Existence of overdrive (indicate yes or no);

(xii) Total drive ratio (N/V);

(xiii) Axle ratio;

(xiv) Combined fuel economy;

(xv) Projected sales for the current model year;

(xvi)(A) In the case of passenger automobiles:
