
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 537 - AUTOMOTIVE FUEL ECONOMY REPORTS
##### § 537.7 Pre-model year and mid-model year reports.
###### Projected average and required fuel economy.

(b)(1) Manufacturers must state the projected average fuel economy for the manufacturer's automobiles determined in accordance with § 537.9 and based upon the fuel economy values and projected sales figures provided under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) Manufacturers must state the projected final average fuel economy that the manufacturer anticipates having if changes implemented during the model year will cause that average to be different from the average fuel economy projected under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) Manufacturers must state the projected required fuel economy for the manufacturer's passenger automobiles and light trucks determined in accordance with §§ 531.5(c) and 533.5 of this chapter and based upon the projected sales figures provided under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. For each unique model type and footprint combination of the manufacturer's automobiles, the manufacturer must provide the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section in tabular form. The manufacturer must list the model types in order of increasing average inertia weight from top to bottom down the left side of the table and list the information categories in the order specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section from left to right across the top of the table. Other formats, such as those accepted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which contain all the information in a readily identifiable format are also acceptable. For model year 2023 and later, for each unique model type and footprint combination of the manufacturer's automobiles, the manufacturer must provide the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section in accordance with the CAFE Projections Reporting Template (OMB Control No. 2127-0019, NHTSA Form 1474).

(i) In the case of passenger automobiles, manufacturers must report the following:

(A) Beginning model year 2013, base tire as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;

(B) Beginning model year 2013, front axle, rear axle, and average track width as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;

(C) Beginning model year 2013, wheelbase as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;

(D) Beginning model year 2013, footprint as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter; and

(E) The fuel economy target value for each unique model type and footprint entry listed in accordance with the equation provided in part 531 of this chapter.

(ii) In the case of light trucks, manufacturers must report the following:

(A) Beginning model year 2013, base tire as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;

(B) Beginning model year 2013, front axle, rear axle, and average track width as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;

(C) Beginning model year 2013, wheelbase as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;

(D) Beginning model year 2013, footprint as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter; and

(E) The fuel economy target value for each unique model type and footprint entry listed in accordance with the equation provided in part 533 of this chapter.

(4) Manufacturers must state the projected final required fuel economy that the manufacturer anticipates having if changes implemented during the model year will cause the targets to be different from the target fuel economy projected under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(5) Manufacturers must state whether the manufacturer believes that the projections it provides under paragraphs (b)(2) and (4) of this section, or if it does not provide an average or target under paragraphs (b)(2) and (4), the projections it provides under paragraphs (b)(1) and (3) of this section, sufficiently represent the manufacturer's average and target fuel economy for the current model year for purposes of the Act. In the case of a manufacturer that believes that the projections are not sufficiently representative for the purpose of determining the projected average fuel economy for the manufacturer's automobiles, the manufacturers must state the specific nature of any reason for the insufficiency and the specific additional testing or derivation of fuel economy values by analytical methods believed by the manufacturer necessary to eliminate the insufficiency and any plans of the manufacturer to undertake that testing or derivation voluntarily and submit the resulting data to the EPA under 40 CFR 600.509-12.
