
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 537 - AUTOMOTIVE FUEL ECONOMY REPORTS
##### ยง 537.7 Pre-model year and mid-model year reports.
###### Report submission requirements.

(a)(1) Manufacturers must provide a report with the information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for each domestic and import passenger automobile fleet, as specified in part 531 of this chapter, for the current model year.

(2) Manufacturers must provide a report with the information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for each light truck fleet, as specified in part 533 of this chapter, for the current model year.

(3) For model year 2023 and later, for passenger cars specified in part 531 and light trucks specified in part 533 of this chapter, manufacturers must provide the information for pre-model and mid-model year reports in accordance with the NHTSA CAFE Projections Reporting Template (OMB Control No. 2127-0019, NHTSA Form 1474). The required reporting template can be downloaded from NHTSA's website.

(i) Manufacturers are only required to provide the actual information on vehicles and technologies in production at the time the pre- and mid-model year reports are required. Otherwise, manufacturers must provide reasonable estimates or updated estimates where possible for pre-and mid-model year reports.

(ii) Manufacturers should attempt not to omit data which should only be the done for products pending production and with unknown information at the time CAFE reports are prepared.
