
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 537 - AUTOMOTIVE FUEL ECONOMY REPORTS
##### ยง 537.7 Pre-model year and mid-model year reports.
###### 5

() Front and rear axle clearances of not less than 18 centimeters each.

(6) Manufacturers must determine the fuel economy values provided under paragraphs (c)(2) and (4) of this section in accordance with ยง 537.9.

(7) Manufacturers must identify any air-conditioning (AC), off-cycle and full-size pick-up truck technologies used each model year to calculate the average fuel economy specified in 40 CFR 600.510-12.

(i) Provide a list of each air conditioning efficiency improvement technology utilized in your fleet(s) of vehicles for each model year. For each technology identify vehicles by make and model types that have the technology, which compliance category those vehicles belong to and the number of vehicles for each model equipped with the technology. For each compliance category (domestic passenger car, import passenger car, and light truck), report the air conditioning fuel consumption improvement value in gallons/mile in accordance with the equation specified in 40 CFR 600.510-12(c)(3)(i).

(ii) Manufacturers must provide a list of off-cycle efficiency improvement technologies utilized in its fleet(s) of vehicles for each model year that is pending or approved by the EPA. For each technology, manufacturers must identify vehicles by make and model types that have the technology, which compliance category those vehicles belong to, the number of vehicles for each model equipped with the technology, and the associated off-cycle credits (grams/mile) available for each technology. For each compliance category (domestic passenger car, import passenger car, and light truck), manufacturers must calculate the fleet off-cycle fuel consumption improvement value in gallons/mile in accordance with the equation specified in 40 CFR 600.510-12(c)(3)(ii).

(iii) Manufacturers must provide a list of full-size pickup trucks in its fleet that meet the mild and strong hybrid vehicle definitions in 40 CFR 86.1803-01. For each mild and strong hybrid type, manufacturers must identify vehicles by make and model types that have the technology, the number of vehicles produced for each model equipped with the technology, the total number of full-size pickup trucks produced with and without the technology, the calculated percentage of hybrid vehicles relative to the total number of vehicles produced, and the associated full-size pickup truck credits (grams/mile) available for each technology. For the light truck compliance category, manufacturers must calculate the fleet pickup truck fuel consumption improvement value in gallons/mile in accordance with the equation specified in 40 CFR 600.510-12(c)(3)(iii).
