
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 541 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT PREVENTION STANDARD
##### ยง 541.5 Requirements for passenger motor vehicles.

(a) Each passenger motor vehicle subject to this standard must have an identifying number affixed or inscribed on each of the parts specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(18) inclusive, if the part is present on the passenger motor vehicle. In the case of passenger motor vehicles not originally manufactured to comply with applicable U.S. vehicle safety and bumper standards, each such motor vehicle subject to this standard must have an identifying number inscribed in a manner which conforms to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, on each of the parts specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(18), inclusive, if the part is present on the motor vehicle.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the number required to be inscribed or affixed by paragraph (a) shall be the VIN of the passenger motor vehicle.

(2) In place of the VIN, manufacturers who were marking engines and/or transmissions with a VIN derivative consisting of at least the last eight characters of the VIN on October 24, 1984, may continue to mark engines and/or transmissions with such VIN derivative.

(3) In the case of passenger motor vehicles not originally manufactured to comply with U.S. vehicle safety and bumper standards, the number required to be inscribed by paragraph (a) of this section shall be the original vehicle identification number assigned to the motor vehicle by its original manufacturer in the country where the motor vehicle was originally produced or assembled.

(c) The characteristics of the number required to be affixed or inscribed by paragraph (a) of this section shall satisfy the size and style requirements set forth for vehicle certification labels in ยง 567.4(g) of this chapter.

(d) The number required by paragraph (a) of this section must be affixed by means that comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section or inscribed by means that comply with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
