
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 541 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT PREVENTION STANDARD
##### ยง 541.5 Requirements for passenger motor vehicles.
###### Labels.

(1)(i) The number must be printed indelibly on a label, and the label must be permanently affixed to the passenger motor vehicle's part.

(ii) The number must be placed on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a location such that the number is, if practicable, on an interior surface of the part as installed on the vehicle and in a location where it:

(A) Will not be damaged by the use of any tools necessary to install, adjust, or remove the part and any adjoining parts, or any portions thereof;

(B) Is on a portion of the part not likely to be damaged in a collision; and

(C) Will not be damaged or obscured during normal dealer preparation operations (including rustproofing and undercoating).

(iii) The number must be placed on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a location that is visible without further disassembly once the part has been removed from the vehicle.

(iv) The number must be placed entirely within the target area specified by the original manufacturer for that part, pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(v) Removal of the label must-

(A) Cause the label to self-destruct by tearing or rendering the number on the label illegible, and

(B) Discernibly alter the appearance of that area of the part where the label was affixed by leaving residual parts of the label or adhesive in that area, so that investigators will have evidence that a label was originally present.

(vi) Alteration of the number on the label must leave traces of the original number or otherwise visibly alter the appearance of the label material.

(vii) The label and the number shall be resistant to counterfeiting.

(viii) The logo or some other unique identifier of the vehicle manufacturer must be placed in the material of the label in a manner such that alteration or removal of the logo visibly alters the appearance of the label.
