
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 541 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT PREVENTION STANDARD
##### ยง 541.5 Requirements for passenger motor vehicles.
###### Target areas.

(e)(1) Each manufacturer that is the original producer who installs or assembles the covered major parts on a line shall designate a target area for the identifying numbers to be marked on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section for each of its lines subject to this standard. The target area shall not exceed 50 percent of the surface area on the surface of the part on which the target area is located.

(2) Each manufacturer subject to paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall, not later than 30 days before the line is introduced into commerce, inform NHTSA in writing of the target areas designated for each line subject to this standard. In those instances where a manufacturer has submitted this target area information to NHTSA with a request for confidential treatment pursuant to 49 CFR part 512, the manufacturer must also submit a complete copy of the target area information within seven (7) days after the information becomes public, or the new line is released for sale to the public, whichever comes first. The information must be submitted to: Docket Management, Room W12-140, West Building, Ground Floor, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590 by any of the following methods. In all cases, the docket number for the submission, (Docket No. NHTSA-2009-0069) must be cited.
