
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 541 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT PREVENTION STANDARD
##### Appendix C to Part 541 - Criteria for Selecting Light Duty Truck Lines Likely To Have High Theft Rates

These criteria specify the factors the Administrator will take into account in determining whether a new line is likely to have a high theft rate, and, therefore, whether such line will be subject to the requirements of this theft prevention standard.

The purpose of these criteria is to enable the Administrator to select, by agreement with the manufacturer, if possible, those new lines which are likely to have high theft rates.

These criteria apply to lines of passenger motor vehicles initially introduced into commerce on or after September 1, 2006.

These criteria will be applied to each line initially introduced into commerce on or after September 1, 2006. The likely theft rate for such lines will be determined in relation to the national median theft rate for 1990 and 1991. If the line is determined to be likely to have a theft rate above the national median, the Administrator will select such line for coverage under this theft prevention standard.

1. Retail price of the vehicle line.

2. Vehicle image or marketing strategy.

3. Vehicle lines with which the new line is intended to compete, and the theft rates of such lines.

4. Vehicle line(s), if any, which the new line is intended to replace, and the theft rate(s) of such line(s).

5. Presence or absence of any new theft prevention devices or systems.

6. Preliminary theft rate for the line, if it can be determined on the basis of currently available data.
