
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 541 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT PREVENTION STANDARD
##### ยง 541.6 Requirements for replacement parts.
###### Target areas.

(e)(1) Each manufacturer that is the original producer or assembler of the vehicle for which the replacement part is designed shall designate a target area for the identifying symbols to be marked on each replacement part subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. Such target areas shall not exceed 25 percent of the surface area of the surface on which the replacement part marking will appear.

(2) The boundaries of the target area designated under paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be at least 10 centimeters at all points from the nearest boundaries of the target area designated for that part under ยง 541.5(e) of this part.

(3) Each manufacturer subject to paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall inform NHTSA in writing of the target areas designated for each replacement part subject to paragraph (a) of this section, at the same time as it informs the agency of the target area designated for the original equipment parts of the line, pursuant to ยง 541.5(e)(2) of this part. In those instances where a manufacturer has submitted this target area information to NHTSA with a request for confidential treatment under 49 CFR part 512, the manufacturer shall also submit a complete copy of the target area information within seven (7) days after the information has become public or the new line has been released for sale to the public, whichever comes first. The information should be submitted to: Docket Management, Room W12-140, Ground Floor, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590 by any of the following methods. In all cases, the docket number for the submission, (Docket No. NHTSA-2009-0069) must be cited.
