
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 542 - PROCEDURES FOR SELECTING LIGHT DUTY TRUCK LINES TO BE COVERED BY THE THEFT PREVENTION STANDARD
##### ยง 542.1 Procedures for selecting new light duty truck lines that are likely to have high or low theft rates.

(a) Scope. This section sets forth the procedures for motor vehicle manufacturers and NHTSA to follow in the determination of whether any new light duty truck line is likely to have a theft rate above or below the 1990/91 median theft rate.

(b) Application. These procedures apply to each manufacturer that plans to introduce a new light duty truck line into commerce in the United States on or after September 1, 2006, and to each of those new lines.

(c) Procedures. (1) Each manufacturer shall use the criteria in appendix C of part 541 of this chapter to evaluate each new light duty truck line and to conclude whether the new line is likely to have a theft rate above or below the 1990/91 median theft rate.

(2) For each new light duty truck line, the manufacturer shall submit its evaluations and conclusions made under paragraph (c) of this section, together with the underlying factual information, to NHTSA not less than 15 months before the date of introduction. The manufacturer may request a meeting with the agency during this period to further explain the bases for its evaluations and conclusions.

(3) Within 90 days after its receipt of the manufacturer's submission under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the agency independently evaluates the new light duty truck line using the criteria in appendix C of part 541 of this chapter and, on a preliminary basis, determines whether the new line should or should not be subject to ยง 541.2 of this chapter. NHTSA informs the manufacturer by letter of the agency's evaluations and determinations, together with the factual information considered by the agency in making them.

(4) The manufacturer may request the agency to reconsider any of its preliminary determinations made under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The manufacturer shall submit its request to the agency within 30 days of its receipt of the letter under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The request shall include the facts and arguments underlying the manufacturer's objections to the agency's preliminary determinations. During this 30-day period, the manufacturer may also request a meeting with the agency to discuss those objections.

(5) Each of the agency's preliminary determinations under paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall become final 45 days after the agency sends the letter specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section unless a request for reconsideration has been received in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If such a request has been received, the agency makes its final determinations within 60 days of its receipt of the request. NHTSA informs the manufacturer by letter of those determinations and its response to the request for reconsideration.
