
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 543 - EXEMPTION FROM VEHICLE THEFT PREVENTION STANDARD
##### § 543.10 Terminating or modifying an exemption.

(a) On its own initiative or in response to a petition, NHTSA may commence a proceeding to terminate or modify any exemption granted under this part.

(b) Any interested person may petition the agency to commence a proceeding to terminate or modify an exemption.

(c)(1) In a petition to terminate an exemption, the petitioner must:

(i) Identify the vehicle line or lines that are the subject of the exemption;

(ii) State the reasons for petitioner's belief that the standard equipment antitheft device installed under the exemption is not as effective as compliance with the parts-marking requirements of part 541 in reducing and deterring motor vehicle theft;

(iii) Comply with § 543.5, paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) and (7).

(2) In a petition to modify an exemption, the petitioner must:

(i) Identify the vehicle line or lines that are the subject of the exemption;

(ii) Request permission to use an antitheft device similar to, but different from the standard equipment antitheft device which is installed under the exemption;

(iii) Comply with § 543.5, paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) and (7); and

(iv) Provide the same information for the modified device that is required under § 543.6 for a new device, except that the information specified by § 543.6(a)(3) need by provided only to the extent that the modified device differs from the standard equipment antitheft device installed under the exemption.

(d) NHTSA processes any complete petition. If a person submits a petition under this section that does not contain all the information required by it, NHTSA informs the manufacturer of the areas of insufficiency and advises the manufacturer that the agency does not process the petition until it receives the required information.

(e) If NHTSA denies a petition requesting a proceeding to terminate or modify an exemption, the agency notifies the petitioner by letter.

(f) If NHTSA commences a termination proceeding on its own initiative or in response to a petition, the agency provides the manufacturer of the exempted line with a copy of the petition, if any, a written statement of NHTSA's reasons for commencing the proceeding, and an opportunity to present its written views.

(g)(1) The agency terminates an exemption if it determines that the antitheft device installed under the exemption has not been as effective as parts-marking in reducing and deterring motor vehicle theft.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, a decision to terminate an exemption under this section takes effect on the later of the following dates:

(i) The last day of the model year in which NHTSA issues the termination decision, or

(ii) Six months after the manufacturer receives written notice of the termination.

(3) If a manufacturer shows good cause why terminating its exemption effective on a date later than the one specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section is consistent with the public interest and the purposes of the Act, the agency may set such later date.

(h)(1) The agency modifies an exemption if it determines, based on substantial evidence, that the modified antitheft device described in the petition is likely to be as effective in reducing and deterring motor vehicle theft as compliance with the parts-marking requirements of part 541.

(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section, a decision to modify an exemption under this section takes effect on the first day of the model year following the model year in which NHTSA issued the modification decision.

(ii) If a manufacturer shows good cause why modifying its exemption effective on a date earlier than the one specified in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section is consistent with the public interest and the purposes of the Act, the agency may set such earlier date.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) NHTSA publishes notice in theof any agency decision terminating or modifying an exemption, and notifies the affected manufacturer in writing.
