
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 37 - TRANSPORTATION SERVICES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES (ADA)
#### Subpart D - Acquisition of Accessible Vehicles By Public Entities
##### ยง 37.87 Purchase or lease of used intercity and commuter rail cars.

(a) Except as provided elsewhere in this section, Amtrak or a commuter authority purchasing or leasing a used intercity or commuter rail car after August 25, 1990, shall ensure that the car is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities, including individuals who use wheelchairs.

(b) Amtrak or a commuter authority may purchase or lease a used intercity or commuter rail car that is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals if, after making demonstrated good faith efforts to obtain an accessible vehicle, it is unable to do so.

(c) Good faith efforts shall include at least the following steps:

(1) An initial solicitation for used vehicles specifying that all used vehicles accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities;

(2) A nationwide search for accessible vehicles, involving specific inquiries to used vehicle dealers and other transit providers; and

(3) Advertising in trade publications and contacting trade associations.

(d) When Amtrak or a commuter authority leases a used intercity or commuter rail car for a period of seven days or less, Amtrak or the commuter authority may make and document good faith efforts as provided in this paragraph instead of in the ways provided in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) By having and implementing, in its agreement with any intercity railroad or commuter authority that serves as a source of used intercity or commuter rail cars for a lease of seven days or less, a provision requiring that the lessor provide all available accessible rail cars before providing any inaccessible rail cars.

(2) By documenting that, when there is more than one source of intercity or commuter rail cars for a lease of seven days or less, the lessee has obtained all available accessible intercity or commuter rail cars from all sources before obtaining inaccessible intercity or commuter rail cars from any source.

(e) Amtrak and commuter authorities purchasing or leasing used intercity or commuter rail cars that are not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities shall retain documentation of the specific good faith efforts that were made for three years from the date the cars were purchased. These records shall be made available, on request, to the Federal Railroad Administration or FTA Administrator, as applicable. These records shall be made available to the public, on request.
