
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 555 - TEMPORARY EXEMPTION FROM MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY AND BUMPER STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 555.8 Termination of temporary exemptions.

(a) A temporary exemption from a standard granted on the basis of substantial economic hardship terminates according to its terms but not later than 3 years after the date of issuance unless terminated sooner pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) A temporary exemption from a standard granted on a basis other than substantial economic hardship terminates according to its terms but not later than 2 years after the date of issuance unless terminated sooner pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) Any interested person may petition for the termination or modification of an exemption granted under this part. The petition will be processed in accordance with the procedures of part 552 of this chapter.

(d) The Administrator terminates or modifies a temporary exemption if he determines that-

(1) The temporary exemption is no longer consistent with the public interest and the objectives of the Act; or

(2) The temporary exemption was granted on the basis of false, fraudulent, or misleading representations or information.

(e) If an application for renewal of a temporary exemption that meets the requirements of ยง 555.5 has been filed not later than 60 days before the termination date of an exemption, the exemption does not terminate until the Administrator grants or denies the application for renewal.

(f) The Administrator publishes in thea notice of:

(1) An application for termination or modification of an exemption and the action taken in response to it; and

(2) Any termination or modification of an exemption pursuant to the Administrator's own motion.
