
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 564 - REPLACEABLE LIGHT SOURCE AND SEALED BEAM HEADLAMP INFORMATION
##### Appendix A to Part 564 - Information to be Submitted for Replaceable Light Sources

A. Lower beam filament dimensions or filament tolerance box dimensions and relation of these to the bulb base reference plane and centerline.

1. Axial location of the filament centerline or the filament tolerance box relative to the bulb base reference plane.

2. Vertical location of the filament centerline or the filament tolerance box relative to the bulb base centerline.

3. Transverse location of the filament centerline or the filament tolerance box relative to the bulb base centerline.

4. Filament tolerance box dimensions, if used.

B. Upper beam filament dimensions or the filament tolerance box dimensions, and relation of these to the bulb base reference plane and centerline.

1. Axial location of the filament centerline or the filament tolerance box relative to the bulb base reference plane.

2. Vertical location of the filament centerline or the filament tolerance box relative to the bulb base centerline.

3. Transverse location of the filament centerline or the filament tolerance box relative to the bulb base centerline.

4. Filament tolerance box dimensions, if used.

C. If the replaceable light source has both a lower beam and an upper beam filament, the dimensional relationship between the two filament centerlines or the filament tolerance boxes may be provided instead of referencing the upper beam filament centerline or filament tolerance box to the bulb base centerline or reference plane.

D. For a light source using excited gas mixtures as a filament, necessary fiducial information and specifications including electrode position dimensions and tolerance information that provide similar location and characteristics information required by paragraphs A, B, and C of this section I for light sources using a resistive type filament.

A. Maximum length from bulb base reference plane to tip of filament capsule.

B. Maximum radial distances from bulb base centerline to periphery of filament capsule and/or supports.

C. Location of black cap relative to low beam filament centerline, filament tolerance box or other to-be-specified reference.

D. Size, length, shape, or other pertinent features and dimensions for providing undistorted walls for the filament capsule.

A. Angular locations, diameters, key/keyway sizes, and any other interchangeability dimensions for indexing the bulb base in the bulb holder.

B. Diameter, width, depth, and surface finish of seal groove, surface, or other pertinent sealing features.

C. Diameter of the bulb base at the interface of the base and its perpendicular reference surface.

D. Dimensions of features related to retention of the bulb base in the bulb holder such as tabs, keys, keyways, surfaces, etc.

A. Mating angular locations, diameters, key/keyway sizes, and any other interchangeability dimensions for indexing the bulb base in the bulb holder.

B. Mating diameter, width, depth, and surface finish of seal groove, surface, or other pertinent sealing features.

C. Mating diameter of the bulb holder at the interface of the bulb base aperture and its perpendicular reference surface.

D. Mating dimensions of features related to retention of the bulb base in the bulb holder such as tabs, keys, keyways, surfaces, etc.

A. Maximum depth of harness connector insertion into bulb base.

B. Location of electrical pins in bulb base.

C. Dimensions of electrical pins in bulb base-length, diameter, width, thickness and etc.

D. Fit of harness connector into bulb base providing all necessary dimensions, key/keyway controls, and dimensions, tapers etc.

E. Dimensions and location of locking features for wiring harness connector to bulb base.

F. Identification of upper beam, lower beam, and common terminals.

A. Type.

B. Material.

C. Dimensions.

A. Maximum power (in watts).
