
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 564 - REPLACEABLE LIGHT SOURCE AND SEALED BEAM HEADLAMP INFORMATION
##### Appendix B to Part 564 - Information to be Submitted for Long Life Replaceable Light Sources of Limited Definition

A. Lower beam filament or discharge arc dimensions or filament or discharge arc tolerance box dimensions and relation of these to the bulb base reference plane and centerline.

1. Axial location of the filament or discharge arc centerline or the filament or discharge arc tolerance box relative to the bulb base reference plane.

2. Vertical location of the filament or discharge arc centerline or the filament or discharge arc tolerance box relative to the bulb base centerline.

3. Transverse location of the filament or discharge arc centerline or the filament or discharge arc tolerance box relative to the bulb base centerline.

4. Filament or discharge arc tolerance box dimensions, if used.

B. Upper beam filament or discharge arc dimensions or the filament or discharge arc tolerance box dimensions and relation of these to the bulb base reference plane and centerline.

1. Axial location of the filament or discharge arc centerline or the filament or discharge arc tolerance box relative to the bulb base reference plane.

2. Vertical location of the filament or discharge arc centerline or the filament or discharge arc tolerance box relative to the bulb base centerline.

3. Transverse location of the filament or discharge arc centerline or the filament or discharge arc tolerance box relative to the bulb base centerline.

4. Filament or discharge arc tolerance box dimensions, if used.

C. If the replaceable light source has both a lower beam and upper beam filament or discharge arc, the dimensional relationship between the two filament or discharge arc centerlines or the filament or discharge arc tolerance boxes may be provided instead of referencing the upper beam filament or discharge arc centerline or filament or discharge arc tolerance box to the bulb base centerline or reference plane.

D. For a light source using excited gas mixtures as a filament, necessary fiducial information and specifications including electrode position dimensions, and tolerance information that provide similar location and characteristics information required by paragraphs A, B, and C of this section I for light sources using a resistive type filament.

A. Angular locations, diameters, key/keyway sizes, and any other interchangeability dimensions for indexing the bulb base in the bulb holder.

B. Diameter, width, depth, and surface finish of seal groove, surface, or other pertinent sealing features.

C. Diameter of the bulb base at the interface of the base and its perpendicular reference surface.

D. Dimensions of features related to retention of the bulb base in the bulb holder such as tabs, keys, keyways, surface, etc.

A. Mating angular locations, diameters, key/keyway sizes, any other interchangeability dimensions for indexing the bulb base in the bulb holder.

B. Mating diameter, width, depth, and surface, or other pertinent sealing features.

C. Mating diameter of the bulb holder at the interface of the bulb base aperture and its perpendicular reference surface.

D. Mating dimensions of features related to retention of the bulb base in the bulb holder such as tabs, keys, keyways, surface, or any other characteristics necessary for mating dimensions.

A. Maximum power (in watts).

B. Luminous Flux (in lumens).

C. Rated laboratory life of the light source/ballast combination (not less than 2,000 hours).

A. Manufacturer's part number for the ballast.

B. Any other characteristics necessary for system operation.
