
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 566 - MANUFACTURER IDENTIFICATION
##### ยง 566.5 Requirements.
###### https://vpic.nhtsa.dot.gov/,https://vpic.nhtsa.dot.gov/

Each manufacturer of a motor vehicle (other than a replica motor vehicle), and each manufacturer of covered equipment, shall furnish the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section toor to: Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590. Manufacturers of replica motor vehicles shall furnish the information by using the portal at.

(a) Full individual, partnership, or corporate name of the manufacturer.

(b) Residence address of the manufacturer and State of incorporation if applicable.

(c) Description of each type of motor vehicle or of covered equipment manufactured by the manufacturer, including, for motor vehicles, the approximate ranges of gross vehicle weight ratings for each type.

(1) Except as noted below, the description may be of general types, such as "passenger cars" or "brake fluid."

(2) In the case of multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks, and trailers, the description shall be specific enough also to indicate the types of use for which the vehicles are intended, such as "tank trailer," "motor home," or "cargo van."

(3) In the case of motor vehicles produced in two or more stages, if the manufacturer is an incomplete vehicle manufacturer, the description shall so state and include a description indicating the stage of completion of the vehicle and, where known, the types of use for which the vehicle is intended.

(4) In the case of replica motor vehicles, the manufacturer shall include, in the description of each type of motor vehicle it manufactures, a designation that the vehicle is a replica motor vehicle.
