
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 567 - CERTIFICATION
##### ยง 567.5 Requirements for manufacturers of vehicles manufactured in two or more stages.
###### Intermediate manufacturers.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section and notwithstanding the certification of a final-stage manufacturer under ยง 567.5(d)(2)(v), each intermediate manufacturer of a vehicle manufactured in two or more stages assumes legal responsibility for all certification-related duties and liabilities under the Vehicle Safety Act with respect to:

(i) Components and systems it installs or supplies for installation on the incomplete vehicle, unless changed by a subsequent manufacturer;

(ii) The vehicle as further manufactured or completed by an intermediate or final-stage manufacturer, to the extent that the vehicle is completed in accordance with the addendum to the IVD furnished by the intermediate vehicle manufacturer;

(iii) Any work done by the intermediate manufacturer on the incomplete vehicle that was not performed in accordance with the IVD or an addendum of a prior intermediate manufacturer; and

(iv) The accuracy of the information in any addendum to the IVD furnished by the intermediate vehicle manufacturer.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, each intermediate manufacturer of an incomplete vehicle shall affix an information label, in a manner that does not obscure the labels applied by previous stage manufacturers, to each incomplete vehicle, which contains the following statements:

(i) Name of intermediate manufacturer, preceded by the words "INTERMEDIATE MANUFACTURE BY" or "INTERMEDIATE MFR".

(ii) Month and year in which the intermediate manufacturer performed its last manufacturing operation on the incomplete vehicle. This may be spelled out, as "JUNE 2000", or expressed as numerals, as "6/00". No preface is required.

(iii) "Gross Vehicle Weight Rating" or "GVWR", followed by the appropriate value in kilograms and (pounds), if different from that identified by the incomplete vehicle manufacturer.

(iv) "Gross Axle Weight Rating" or "GAWR" followed by the appropriate value in kilograms and (pounds), if different from that identified by the incomplete vehicle manufacturer.

(v) Vehicle identification number.
