
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 567 - CERTIFICATION
##### ยง 567.5 Requirements for manufacturers of vehicles manufactured in two or more stages.
###### Incomplete vehicle manufacturers.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section and notwithstanding the certification of a final-stage manufacturer under 49 CFR 567.5(d)(2)(v), each manufacturer of an incomplete vehicle assumes legal responsibility for all certification-related duties and liabilities under the Vehicle Safety Act with respect to:

(i) Components and systems it installs or supplies for installation on the incomplete vehicle, unless changed by a subsequent manufacturer;

(ii) The vehicle as further manufactured or completed by an intermediate or final-stage manufacturer, to the extent that the vehicle is completed in accordance with the IVD; and

(iii) The accuracy of the information contained in the IVD.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, each incomplete vehicle manufacturer shall affix an information label to each incomplete vehicle that contains the following statements:

(i) Name of incomplete vehicle manufacturer preceded by the words "incomplete vehicle MANUFACTURED BY" or "incomplete vehicle MFD BY".

(ii) Month and year of manufacture of the incomplete vehicle. This may be spelled out, as in "JUNE 2000", or expressed in numerals, as in "6/00". No preface is required.

(iii) "Gross Vehicle Weight Rating" or "GVWR" followed by the appropriate value in kilograms and (pounds), which shall not be less than the sum of the unloaded vehicle weight, rated cargo load, and 150 pounds times the number of the vehicle's designated seating positions, if known. However, for school buses the minimum occupant weight allowance shall be 120 pounds per passenger and 150 pounds for the driver.

(iv) "Gross Axle Weight Rating" or "GAWR," followed by the appropriate value in kilograms and (pounds) for each axle, identified in order from front to rear (e.g., front, first intermediate, second intermediate, rear). The ratings for any consecutive axles having identical gross axle weight ratings when equipped with tires having the same tire size designation may be stated as a single value, with the label indicating to which axles the ratings apply.

(v) Vehicle Identification Number.
