
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 37 - TRANSPORTATION SERVICES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES (ADA)
#### Subpart F - Paratransit as a Complement to Fixed Route Service
##### § 37.135 Submission of paratransit plan.
###### Annual Updates.

(c)Except as provided in this paragraph, each entity shall submit an annual update to its plan on January 26 of each succeeding year.

(1) If an entity has met and is continuing to meet all requirements for complementary paratransit in §§ 37.121-37.133 of this part, the entity may submit to FTA an annual certification of continued compliance in lieu of a plan update. Entities that have submitted a joint plan under § 37.141 may submit a joint certification under this paragraph. The requirements of §§ 37.137 (a) and (b), 37.138 and 37.139 do not apply when a certification is submitted under this paragraph.

(2) In the event of any change in circumstances that results in an entity which has submitted a certification of continued compliance falling short of compliance with §§ 37.121-37.133, the entity shall immediately notify FTA in writing of the problem. In this case, the entity shall also file a plan update meeting the requirements of §§ 37.137-37.139 of this part on the next following January 26 and in each succeeding year until the entity returns to full compliance.

(3) An entity that has demonstrated undue financial burden to the FTA shall file a plan update meeting the requirements of §§ 37.137-37.139 of this part on each January 26 until full compliance with §§ 37.121-37.133 is attained.

(4) If FTA reasonably believes that an entity may not be fully complying with all service criteria, FTA may require the entity to provide an annual update to its plan.
