
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 570 - VEHICLE IN USE INSPECTION STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Vehicles With GVWR of More Than 10,000 Pounds
###### ยง 570.57 Air brake system and air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem.
####### Air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem integrity.

(c)The air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem shall demonstrate integrity by meeting the following requirements:

(1) The air brake system compressor shall increase the air pressure in the reservoir(s) from the level developed after the test prescribed in ยง 570.57(a)(1) to the initial pressure noted before the full brake application, with the engine running at the manufacturer's recommended number of revolutions per minute and the compressor governor in the cut-out position, in not more than 30 seconds for vehicles manufactured prior to March 1, 1975. For vehicles manufactured on or after March 1, 1975, the time for air pressure build up shall not exceed 45 seconds.

(2) The warning device (visual or audible) connected to the brake system air pressure source shall be activated when the air pressure is lowered to not less than 50 psi.

(3) The governor cut-in pressure shall be not lower than 80 psi, and the cut-out pressure shall not be higher than 135 psi, unless other values are recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.

(4) Air brake pressure shall not drop more than 2 psi in 1 minute for single vehicles or more than 3 psi in 1 minute for combination vehicles, with the engine stopped and service brakes released. Allow a 1-psi drop per minute for each additional towed vehicle.

(5) With the reservoir(s) fully charged, air pressure shall not drop more than 3 psi in 1 minute for single vehicles or more than 4 psi in 1 minute for combination vehicles, with the engine stopped and service brakes fully applied. Allow a 1-psi pressure drop in 1 minute for each additional towed vehicle.

(6) The compressor drive belt shall not be badly worn or frayed and belt tension shall be sufficient to prevent slippage.
