
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Stopping distance.

S5.1.1(a) The service brakes shall be capable of stopping each vehicle with a GVWR of less than 8,000 pounds, and each school bus with a GVWR between 8,000 pounds and 10,000 pounds in four effectiveness tests within the distances and from the speeds specified in S5.1.1.1, S5.1.1.2, S5.1.1.3, and S5.1.1.4.

(b) The service brakes shall be capable of stopping each vehicle with a GVWR of between 8,000 pounds and 10,000 pounds, other than a school bus, in three effectiveness tests within the distances and from the speeds specified in S5.1.1.1, S5.1.1.2, and S5.1.1.4.

(c) The service brakes shall be capable of stopping each vehicle with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds in two effectiveness tests within the distances and from the speeds specified in S5.1.1.2 and S5.1.1.3. Each school bus with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds manufactured after January 12, 1996 and before March 1, 1999 and which is equipped with an antilock brake system may comply with paragraph S5.1.1.2 and S5.5.1 rather than the first effectiveness test, as specified in S5.1.1.1. Each school bus with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds manufactured on or after March 1, 1999 shall be capable of meeting the requirements of S5.1.1 through S5.1.5, under the conditions prescribed in S6, when tested according to the procedures and in the sequence set forth in S7.

S5.1.1.1 In the first (preburnished) effectiveness test, the vehicle shall be capable of stopping from 30 mph and 60 mph within the corresponding distances specified in column I of table II.

S5.1.1.2 In the second effectiveness test, each vehicle with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less and each school bus with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds shall be capable of stopping from 30 mph and 60 mph, and each vehicle with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds (other than a school bus) shall be capable of stopping from 60 mph, within the corresponding distances specified in Column II of Table II. If the speed attainable in 2 miles is not less than 84 mph, a passenger car or other vehicle with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less shall also be capable of stopping from 80 mph within the corresponding distances specified in Column II of Table II.

S5.1.1.3 In the third effectiveness test the vehicle shall be capable of stopping at lightly loaded vehicle weight from 60 mph within the corresponding distance specified in column III of table II.

S5.1.1.4 In the fourth effectiveness test, a vehicle with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less shall be capable of stopping from 30 and 60 mph within the corresponding distances specified in column I of table II. If the speed attainable in 2 miles is not less than 84 mph, a passenger car, or other vehicle with a GVWR of 10,000 lbs., or less, shall also be capable of stopping from 80 mph within the corresponding distance specified in column I of table II.

If the speed attainable in 2 miles is not less than 99 mph, a passenger car shall, in addition, be capable of stopping from the applicable speed indicated below, within the corresponding distance specified in column I of table II.
