
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Service brake systems.

S5.1Each vehicle must be equipped with a service brake system acting on all wheels. Wear of the service brake must be compensated for by means of a system of automatic adjustment. Each passenger car and each multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck, and bus with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less must be capable of meeting the requirements of S5.1.1 through S5.1.6 under the conditions prescribed in S6, when tested according to the procedures and in the sequence set forth in S7. Each school bus with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds must be capable of meeting the requirements of S5.1.1 through S5.1.5, and S5.1.7 under the conditions specified in S6, when tested according to the procedures and in the sequence set forth in S7. Each multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck and bus (other than a school bus) with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds must be capable of meeting the requirements of S5.1.1, S5.1.2, S5.1.3, and S5.1.7 under the conditions specified in S6, when tested according to the procedures and in the sequence set forth in S7. Except as noted in S5.1.1.2 and S5.1.1.4, if a vehicle is incapable of attaining a speed specified in S5.1.1, S5.1.2, S5.1.3, or S5.1.6, its service brakes must be capable of stopping the vehicle from the multiple of 5 mph that is 4 to 8 mph less than the speed attainable in 2 miles, within distances that do not exceed the corresponding distances specified in Table II. If a vehicle is incapable of attaining a speed specified in S5.1.4 in the time or distance interval set forth, it must be tested at the highest speed attainable in the time or distance interval specified.
