
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Brake system indicator lamp.

S5.3Each vehicle shall have a brake system indicator lamp or lamps, mounted in front of and in clear view of the driver, which meet the requirements of S5.3.1 through S5.3.5. A vehicle with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less may have a single common indicator lamp. A vehicle with a GVWR of greater than 10,000 pounds may have an indicator lamp which is common for gross loss of pressure, drop in the level of brake fluid, or application of the parking brake, but shall have a separate indicator lamp for antilock brake system malfunction. However, the options provided in S5.3.1(a) shall not apply to a vehicle manufactured without a split service brake system; such a vehicle shall, to meet the requirements of S5.3.1(a), be equipped with a malfunction indicator that activates under the conditions specified in S5.3.1(a)(4). This warning indicator shall, instead of meeting the requirements of S5.3.2 through S5.3.5, activate (while the vehicle remains capable of meeting the requirements of S5.1.2.2 and the ignition switch is in the "on" position) a continuous or intermittent audible signal and a flashing warning light, displaying the words "STOP-BRAKE FAILURE" in block capital letters not less than one-quarter of an inch in height.

S5.3.1 An indicator lamp shall be activated when the ignition (start) switch is in the "on" ("run") position and whenever any of the conditions (a) or (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) occur:

(a) A gross loss of pressure (such as caused by rupture of a brake line but not by a structural failure of a housing that is common to two or more subsystems) due to one of the following conditions (chosen at the option of the manufacturer):

(1) Before or upon application of a differential pressure of not more than 225 lb/inbetween the active and failed brake system measured at a master cylinder outlet or a slave cylinder outlet.

(2) Before or upon application of 50 pounds of control force upon a fully manual service brake.

(3) Before or upon application of 25 pounds of control force upon a service brake with a brake power assist unit.

(4) When the supply pressure in a brake power unit drops to a level not less than one-half of the normal system pressure.

(b) A drop in the level of brake fluid in any master cylinder reservoir compartment to less than the recommended safe level specified by the manufacturer or to one-fourth of the fluid capacity of that reservoir compartment, whichever is greater.

(c) A malfunction that affects the generation or transmission of response or control signals in an antilock brake system, or a total functional electrical failure in a variable proportioning brake system.

(d) Application of the parking brake.

(e) For a vehicle with electrically-actuated service brakes, failure of the source of electric power to the brakes, or diminution of state of charge of the batteries to less than a level specified by the manufacturer for the purpose of warning a driver of degraded brake performance.

(f) For a vehicle with electric transmission of the service brake control signal, failure of a brake control circuit.

(g) For an EV with RBS that is part of the service brake system, failure of the RBS.

S5.3.2 (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all indicator lamps shall be activated as a check of lamp function either when the ignition (start) switch is turned to the "on" (run) position when the engine is not running, or when the ignition (start) switch is in a position between "on" (run) and "start" that is designated by the manufacturer as a check position.

(b) The indicator lamps need not be activated when a starter interlock is in operation.

S5.3.3 (a) Each indicator lamp activated due to a condition specified in S5.3.1 shall remain activated as long as the malfunction exists, whenever the ignition (start) switch is in the "on" (run) position, whether or not the engine is running.

(b) For vehicles manufactured on and after September 1, 1999 with GVWRs greater than 10,000 lbs, each message about the existence of a malfunction, as described in S5.3.1(c), shall be stored in the antilock brake system after the ignition switch is turned to the "off" position and the indicator lamp shall be automatically reactivated when the ignition switch is again turned to the "on" position. The indicator lamp shall also be activated as a check of lamp function whenever the ignition is turned to the "on" (run) position. The indicator lamp shall be deactivated at the end of the check of lamp function unless there is a malfunction or a message about a malfunction that existed when the key switch was last turned to the "off" position.

S5.3.4 When an indicator lamp is activated it may be steady burning or flashing.

S5.3.5 (a) Each indicator lamp shall display word, words or abbreviation, in accordance with the requirements of Standard No. 101 (49 CFR 571.101) and/or this section, which shall have letters not less than-inch high and be legible to the driver in daylight when lighted. Words in addition to those required by Standard No. 101 and/or this section and symbols may be provided for purposes of clarity.

(b) If a single common indicator is used, the lamp shall display the word "Brake". The letters and background of a single common indicator shall be of contrasting colors, one of which is red.

(c)(1) If separate indicators are used for one or more of the conditions described in S5.3.1(a) through S5.3.1(g) of this standard, the indicator display shall include the word "Brake" and appropriate additional labeling, except as provided in (c)(1) (A) through (D) of this paragraph.

(A) If a separate indicator lamp is provided for gross loss of pressure, the words "Brake Pressure" shall be used for S5.3.1(a).

(B) If a separate indicator lamp is provided for low brake fluid, the words "Brake Fluid" shall be used for S5.3.1(b), except for vehicles using hydraulic system mineral oil.

(C) If a separate indicator lamp is provided for an anti-lock system, the single word "Antilock" or "Anti-lock", or the abbreviation "ABS", may be used for S5.3.1(c).

(D) If a separate indicator lamp is provided for application of the parking brake, the single word "Park" may be used for S5.3.1(d).

(E) If a separate indicator is used for the regenerative brake system, the symbol "RBS" may be used. RBS failure may also be indicated by a lamp displaying the symbol "ABS/RBS."

(2) Except for a separate indicator lamp for an anti-lock system, a regenerative system, or an indicator for both anti-lock and regenerative system, the letters and background of each separate indicator lamp shall be of contrasting colors, one of which is red. The letters and background of a separate lamp for an anti-lock system, a regenerative system, or a lamp displaying both an anti-lock and a regenerative system shall be of contrasting colors, one of which is yellow.
