
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Electric vehicles and electric brakes.

S6.2

S6.2.1 The state of charge of the propulsion batteries is determined in accordance with SAE Recommended Practice J227a (1976) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5). The applicable sections of SAE J227a (1976) are 3.2.1 through 3.2.4, 3.3.1 through 3.3.2.2, 3.4.1 and 3.4.2, 4.2.1, 5.2, 5.2.1, and 5.3.

S6.2.2 At the beginning of the first effectiveness test specified in S7.3, and at the beginning of each burnishing procedure, each EV's propulsion battery is at the maximum state of charge recommended by the manufacturer, as stated in the vehicle operator's manual or on a label that is permanently attached to the vehicle, or, if the manufacturer has made no recommendation, at a state of charge of not less than 95 percent. If a battery is replaced rather than recharged, the replacement battery is to be charged and measured for state of charge in accordance with these procedures. During each burnish procedure, each propulsion battery is restored to the recommended state of charge or a state of charge of not less than 95 percent after each increment of 40 burnish stops until each burnish procedure is complete. The batteries may be charged at a more frequent interval if, during a particular 40-stop increment, the EV is incapable of achieving the initial burnish test speed. During each burnish procedure, the propulsion batteries may be charged by an external means or replaced by batteries that are charged to the state of charge recommended by the manufacturer or a state of charge of not less than 95 percent. For EVs having a manual control for setting the level of regenerative braking, the manual control, at the beginning of each burnish procedure, is set to provide maximum regenerative braking throughout the burnish.

S6.2.3 At the beginning of each performance test in the test sequence (S7,3, S7.5, S7.7 through S7.11, and S7.13 through S7.19 of this standard), unless otherwise specified, each propulsion battery of an EV is at the maximum state of charge recommended by the manufacturer, as stated in the vehicle operator's manual or on a label that is permanently attached to the vehicle, or, if the manufacturer has made no recommendation, at a state of charge of not less than 95 percent. If batteries are replaced rather than recharged, each replacement battery shall be charged and measured for state of charge in accordance with these procedures. No further charging of any propulsion battery occurs during any of the performance tests in the test sequence of this standard. If the propulsion batteries are depleted during a test sequence such that the vehicle reaches automatic shut-down, will not accelerate, or the low state of charge warning lamp is illuminated, the vehicle is to be accelerated to brake test speed by auxiliary means.

S6.2.4 (a) For an EV equipped with RBS, the RBS is considered to be part of the service brake system if it is automatically controlled by an application of the service brake control, if there is no means provided for the driver to disconnect or otherwise deactivate it, and if it is activated in all transmission positions, including neutral. The RBS is operational during all burnishes and all tests, except for the test of a failed RBS.

(b) For an EV equipped with an RBS that is not part of the service brake system, the RBS is operational and set to produce the maximum regenerative braking effect during the burnishes, and is disabled during the test procedures. If the vehicle is equipped with a neutral gear that automatically disables the RBS, the test procedures which are designated to be conducted in gear may be conducted in neutral.

S6.2.5 For tests conducted "in neutral," the operator of an EV with no "neutral" position (or other means such as a clutch for disconnecting the drive train from the propulsion motor(s)) does not apply any electromotive force to the propulsion motor(s). Any electromotive force that is applied to the propulsion motor(s) automatically remains in effect unless otherwise specified by the test procedure.

S6.2.6 A vehicle equipped with electrically-actuated service brakes also performs the following test series. Conduct 10 stopping tests from a speed of 100 kph or the maximum vehicle speed, whichever is less. At least two of the 10 stopping distances must be less than or equal to 70 meters. The vehicle is loaded to GVWR for these tests and the transmission is in the neutral position when the service brake control is actuated and throughout the remainder of the test. The battery or batteries providing power to those electrically-actuated brakes, at the beginning of each test, shall be in a depleted state of charge for conditions (a), (b), or (c) of this paragraph as appropriate. An auxiliary means may be used to accelerate an EV to test speed.

(a) For an EV equipped with electrically-actuated service brakes deriving power from the propulsion batteries, and with automatic shut-down capability of the propulsion motor(s), the propulsion batteries are at not more than five percent above the EV actual automatic shut-down critical value. The critical value is determined by measuring the state-of-charge of each propulsion battery at the instant that automatic shut-down occurs and averaging the states-of-charge recorded.

(b) For an EV equipped with electrically-actuated service brakes deriving power from the propulsion batteries, and with no automatic shut-down capability of the propulsion motor(s), the propulsion batteries are at an average of not more than five percent above the actual state of charge at which the brake failure warning signal, required by S5.3.1(e) of this standard, is illuminated.

(c) For a vehicle which has an auxiliary battery (or batteries) that provides electrical energy to operate the electrically-actuated service brakes, the auxiliary battery(batteries) is (are) at (at an average of) not more than five percent above the actual state of charge at which the brake failure warning signal, required by S5.3.1(e) of this standard, is illuminated.
