
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Vehicle position and wheel lockup restrictions.

S6.10The vehicle is aligned in the center of the roadway at the start of each brake application. Stops, other than spike stops, are made without any part of the vehicle leaving the roadway.

S6.10.1 For vehicles with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less, stops are made with wheel lockup permitted only as follows:

(a) At vehicle speeds above 10 mph, there may be controlled wheel lockup on an antilock-equipped axle, and lockup of not more than one wheel per vehicle, uncontrolled by an antilock system. (Dual wheels on one side of an axle are considered a single wheel.)

(b) At vehicle speeds of 10 mph or less, any wheel may lock up for any duration.

(c) Unlimited wheel lockup is allowed during spike stops (but not spike check stops), partial failure stops, and inoperative brake power or power assist unit stops.

S6.10.2 For vehicles with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds, stops are made with wheel lockup permitted only as follows:

(a) At vehicle speeds above 20 mph, any wheel on a nonsteerable axle other than the two rearmost nonliftable, nonsteerable axles may lock up for any duration. The wheels on the two rearmost nonliftable, nonsteerable axles may lock up according to (b).

(b) At vehicle speeds above 20 mph, one wheel on any axle or two wheels on any tandem may lock up for any duration.

(c) At vehicle speeds above 20 mph, any wheel not permitted to lock in (a) or (b) may lock up repeatedly, with each lockup occurring for a duration of one second or less.

(d) At vehicle speeds of 20 mph or less, any wheel may lock up for any duration.

(e) Unlimited wheel lockup is allowed during partial failure stops, and inoperative brake power or power assist stops.
