
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Road surface.

S6.9

S6.9.1 For vehicles with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less, road tests are conducted on a 12-foot-wide, level roadway, having a skid number of 81. Burnish stops are conducted on any surface. The parking brake test surface is clean, dry, smooth, Portland cement concrete.

S6.9.2(a) For vehicles with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds, road tests (excluding stability and control during braking tests) are conducted on a 12-foot-wide, level roadway, having a peak friction coefficient of 1.02 when measured using an ASTM F2493 standard reference test tire, in accordance with ASTM E1337-19 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), at a speed of 40 mph, without water delivery. Burnish stops are conducted on any surface. The parking brake test surface is clean, dry, smooth, Portland cement concrete.

(b) For vehicles with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds, stability and control during braking tests are conducted on a 500-foot-radius curved roadway with a wet level surface having a peak friction coefficient of 0.55 when measured on a straight or curved section of the curved roadway using an ASTM F2493 standard reference tire, in accordance with ASTM E1337-19 at a speed of 40 mph, with water delivery.
