
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Control forces.

S6.13Unless otherwise specified, the force applied to a brake control is not less than 15 lb and not more than 150 lb.

S6.14 Special drive conditions. A vehicle with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds equipped with an interlocking axle system or a front wheel drive system that is engaged and disengaged by the driver is tested with the system disengaged.

S6.15 Selection of compliance options. Where manufacturer options are specified, the manufacturer shall select the option by the time it certifies the vehicle and may not thereafter select a different option for the vehicle. Each manufacturer shall, upon request from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, provide information regarding which of the compliance options it has selected for a particular vehicle or make/model.

S7. Test procedure and sequence. Each vehicle shall be capable of meeting all the applicable requirements of S5 when tested according to the procedures and sequence set forth below, without replacing any brake system part or making any adjustments to the brake system other than as permitted in the burnish and reburnish procedures and in S7.9 and S7.10. (For vehicles only having to meet the requirements of S5.1.1, S5.1.2, S5.1.3, and S5.1.7 in section S5.1, the applicable test procedures and sequence are S7.1, S7.2, S7.4, S7.5(b), S7.5(a), S7.8, S7.9, S7.10, and S7.18. However, at the option of the manufacturer, the following test procedure and sequence may be conducted: S7.1, S7.2, S7.3, S7.4, S7.5(b), S7.6, S7.7, S7.5(a), S7.8, S7.9, S7.10, and S7.18. The choice of this option must not be construed as adding to the requirements specified in S5.1.2 and S5.1.3.) Automatic adjusters must remain activated at all times. A vehicle shall be deemed to comply with the stopping distance requirements of S5.1 if at least one of the stops at each speed and load specified in each of S7.3, S7.5(b), S7.8, S7.9, S7.10, S7.15 and S7.17 (check stops) is made within a stopping distance that does not exceed the corresponding distance specified in Table II. When the transmission selector control is required to be in neutral for a deceleration, a stop or snub must be obtained by the following procedures:

(a) Exceed the test speed by 4 to 8 mph;

(b) Close the throttle and coast in gear to approximately 2 mph above the test speed;

(c) Shift to neutral; and

(d) When the test speed is reached, apply the service brakes.
