
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Service brake system test-partial failure.

S7.9

S7.9.1 With the vehicle at lightly loaded vehicle weight or at the manufacturer's option for a vehicle with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds, at lightly loaded vehicle weight plus not more than an additional 1,000 pounds for a roll bar structure on the vehicle, alter the service brake system to produce any one rupture or leakage type of failure, other than a structural failure of a housing that is common to two or more subsystems. Determine the control force, pressure level, or fluid level (as appropriate for the indicator being tested) necessary to activate the brake system indicator lamp. Make four stops if the vehicle is equipped with a split service brake system, or 10 stops if the vehicle is not so equipped, each from 60 mph, by a continuous application of the service brake control. Restore the service brake system to normal at completion of this test.

S7.9.2 Repeat S7.9.1 for each of the other subsystems.

S7.9.3 Repeat S7.9.1 and S7.9.2 with vehicle at GVWR. Restore the service brake system to normal at completion of this test.

S7.9.4 (For vehicles with antilock and/or variable proportioning brake systems.) With vehicle at GVWR, disconnect functional power source, or otherwise render antilock system inoperative. Disconnect variable proportioning brake system. Make four stops, each from 60 mph. If more than one antilock or variable proportioning brake subsystem is provided, disconnect or render one subsystem inoperative and run as above. Restore system to normal at completion of this test. Repeat for each subsystem provided.

Determine whether the brake system indicator lamp is activated when the electrical power source to the antilock or variable proportioning unit is disconnected.

S7.9.5 For a vehicle in which the brake signal is transmitted electrically between the brake pedal and some or all of the foundation brakes, regardless of the means of actuation of the foundation brakes, the tests in S7.9.1 through S7.9.3 of this standard are conducted by inducing any single failure in any circuit that electrically transmits the brake signal, and all other systems intact. Determine whether the brake system indicator lamp is activated when the failure is induced.

S7.9.6 For an EV with RBS that is part of the service brake system, the tests specified in S7.9.1 through S7.9.3 are conducted with the RBS disconnected and all other systems intact. Determine whether the brake system indicator lamp is activated when the RBS is disconnected.
