
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Optional Procedures.

S7.10.2On vehicles with brake power assist units, the unit is charged to maximum prior to start of test. (Engine may be run up in speed, then throttle closed quickly to attain maximum charge on vacuum assist units.) Brake power units shall also be charged to maximum accumulator pressure prior to start of test. No recharging is allowed after start of test.

(a) (For vehicles with brake power assist units.) Disconnect the primary source of power. Make six stops each from 60 mph, to achieve the average deceleration for each stop as specified in table III. Apply the brake control as quickly as possible. Maintain control force until vehicle has stopped.

(b) (For vehicles with brake power units with accumulator type systems.) Test as in S7.10.2(a), except make 10 stops instead of 6 and, at the completion of the 10 stops, deplete the failed element of the brake power unit of any residual brake power reserve capability before making the final stop.

(c) (For vehicles with brake power assist or brake power units with backup systems.) If the brake power or brake power assist unit operates in conjunction with a backup system and the backup system is activated automatically in the event of a primary power failure, the backup system is operative during this test. Disconnect the primary source of power of one subsystem. Make 15 stops, each from 60 mph, with the backup system activated for the failed subsystem, to achieve an average deceleration of 12 fpsps for each stop.

(d) Restore systems to normal at completion of these tests. For vehicles equipped with more than one brakepower assist or brakepower unit, conduct tests of each in turn.
