
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.105 Standard No. 105; Hydraulic and electric brake systems.
####### Final inspection.

S7.18Inspect-

(a) The service brake system for detachment or fracture of any components, such as brake springs and brake shoes or disc pad facing.

(b) The friction surface of the brake, the master cylinder or brake power unit reservoir cover and seal and filler openings, for leakage of brake fluid or lubricant.

(c) The master cylinder or brake power unit reservoir for compliance with the volume and labeling requirements of S5.4.2 and S5.4.3. In determining the fully applied worn condition assume that the lining is worn to: (1) Rivet or bolt heads on riveted or bolted linings, or (2) within one thirty-seconds of an inch of shoe or pad mounting surface on bonded linings, or (3) the limit recommended by the manufacturer, whichever is larger relative to the total possible shoe or pad movement. Drums or rotors are assumed to be at nominal design drum diameter or rotor thickness. Linings are assumed adjusted for normal operating clearance in the released position.

(d) The brake system indicator light(s), for compliance with operation in various key positions, lens color, labeling, and location, in accordance with S5.3.
