
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### Package labeling for brake hose assemblies designed to be used with a supplemental support.,insert Manufacturer, Model Name

S5.2.3(a) Each hydraulic brake hose assembly that is equipped with a permanent supplemental support integrally attached to the assembly and is manufactured as a replacement assembly for a vehicle equipped, as an integral part of the vehicle's original design, with a means of attaching the support to the vehicle shall be sold in a package that is marked or labeled as follows: "FOR USE ON [] ONLY";

(b) Each hydraulic brake hose assembly that is equipped with a permanent supplemental support integrally attached to the assembly and is manufactured as a replacement for use on a vehicle not equipped, as an integral part of the vehicle's original design, with a means of attaching the support to the vehicle shall comply with paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section:

(1) Be sold in a package that is marked or labeled as follows: "FOR USE ONLY WITH A SUPPLEMENTAL SUPPORT."

(2) Be accompanied by clear, detailed instructions explaining the proper installation of the brake hose and the supplemental support bracket to the vehicle and the consequences of not attaching the supplemental support bracket to the vehicle. The instructions shall be printed on or included in the package specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

S5.2.4 Each hydraulic brake hose assembly, except those sold as part of a motor vehicle, shall be labeled by means of a band around the brake hose assembly as specified in this paragraph or, at the option of the manufacturer, by means of labeling as specified in S5.2.4.1. The band may at the manufacturer's option be attached so as to move freely along the length of the assembly, as long as it is retained by the end fittings. The band shall be etched, embossed, or stamped in block capital letters, numerals or symbols at least one-eighth of an inch high, with the following information:

(a) The symbol DOT constituting certification by the hose assembler that the hose assembly conforms to all applicable motor vehicle safety standards.

(b) A designation that identifies the manufacturer of the hose assembly, which shall be filed in writing with: Office of Vehicle Safety Compliance, Equipment Division NVS-222, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh St. SW., Washington, DC 20590. The designation may consist of block capital letters, numerals or a symbol.

S5.2.4.1 At least one end fitting of a hydraulic brake hose assembly shall be etched, stamped or embossed with a designation at least one-sixteenth of an inch high that identifies the manufacturer of the hose assembly and is filed in accordance with S5.2.4(b).
