
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### Preparation.

S6.3.2(a) Except for the supplemental support specified in S6.3.2(d), remove all external appendages including, but not limited to, hose armor, chafing collars, mounting brackets, date band and spring guards.

(b) Measure the hose free length.

(c) Mount the hose in the whip test machine, introducing slack as specified in Table II for the size hose tested, measuring the projected length parallel to the axis of the rotating disks. The manufacturer may, at his option, adapt the fitting attachment points to permit mounting hose assemblies equipped with angled or other special fittings in the same orientation as hose assemblies equipped with straight fittings.

(d) In the case of a brake hose assembly equipped with a permanent supplemental support integrally attached to the assembly, the assembly may be mounted using the supplemental support and associated means of simulating its attachment to the vehicle. Mount the supplemental support in the same vertical and horizontal planes as the stationary header end of the whip test fixture described in S6.3.1(b). Mount or attach the supplemental support so that it is positioned in accordance with the recommendation of the assembly manufacturer for attaching the supplemental support on a vehicle.
