
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### Preparation.

S6.9.2(a) Precondition the hose assembly by laying it on a flat surface in an unstressed condition, at room temperature, for 24 hours.

(b) Cut the brake hose assembly to a length of 8.6 inches (218 mm), such that no end fittings remain on the cut hose.

(c) Mount the brake hose onto the test fixture by fully inserting the fixture pins into each end of the hose. Secure the hose to the fixture pins using a band clamp at each end of the hose.

(d) Place the test fixture into an ozone chamber

(e) Stabilize the atmosphere in the ozone chamber so that the ambient temperature is 104 &#xB0;F (40 degrees Celsius) and the air mixture contains air mixed with ozone in the proportion of 100 parts of ozone per 100 million parts of air by volume. This atmosphere is to remain stable throughout the remainder of the test.

(f) Begin cycling the movable pin at a rate of 0.3 Hz. Continue the cycling for 48 hours.

(g) At the completion of 48 hours of cycling, remove the test fixture from the ozone chamber. Without removing the hose from the test fixture, visually examine the hose for cracks without magnification, ignoring areas immediately adjacent to or within the area covered by the band clamps. Examine the hose with the movable pin at any point along its travel.
