
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### Hose.

S7.2.1Each air brake hose shall be labeled, or cut from bulk hose that is labeled, at intervals of not more than 6 inches, measured from the end of one legend to the beginning of the next, in block capital letters and numerals at least one-eighth of an inch high, with the information listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. The information need not be present on hose that is sold as part of a brake hose assembly or a motor vehicle.

(a) The symbol DOT, constituting a certification by the hose manufacturer that the hose conforms to all applicable motor vehicle safety standards.

(b) A designation that identifies the manufacturer of the hose, which shall be filed in writing with: Office of Vehicle Safety Compliance, Equipment Division NVS-222, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh St. SW., Washington, DC 20590. The designation may consist of block capital letters, numerals, or a symbol.

(c) The month, day, and year, or the month and year, of manufacture, expressed in numerals. For example, 10/1/96 means October 1, 1996.

(d) The nominal inside diameter of the hose expressed in inches or fractions of inches or in millimeters. The abbreviation "mm" shall follow hose sizes that are expressed in millimeters. (Examples:,(SP in the case ofinch special air brake hose), 4mm, 6mm.)

(e) The type designation corresponding to the brake hose dimensions in Table III. Type A shall be labeled with the letter "A", Type AI shall be labeled with the letters "AI", and type AII shall be labeled with the letters "AII". Metric air brake hose shall be labeled with the letter "A."
