
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### End fittings.

S9.1.2Except for an end fitting that is attached by heat shrinking or by interference fit with plastic vacuum hose or that is attached by deformation of the fitting about a hose by crimping or swaging, at least one component of each vacuum brake hose fitting shall be etched, embossed, or stamped in block capital letters and numerals at least one-sixteenth of an inch high with the following information:

(a) The symbol DOT, constituting a certification by the manufacturer of that component that the component conforms to all applicable motor vehicle safety standards.

(b) A designation that identifies the manufacturer of that component of the fitting, which shall be filed in writing with: Office of Crash Avoidance Standards, Vehicle Dynamics Division, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. The designation may consist of block capital letters, numerals or a symbol.

(c) The letters "VL" or "VH" shall indicate that the end fitting is intended for use in a light-duty or heavy-duty vacuum brake system, respectively.

(d) The nominal inside diameter of the hose to which the fitting is properly attached expressed in inches or fractions of inches or in millimeters, or the outside diameter of the plastic tubing to which the fitting is properly attached expressed in inches or fraction of inches or in millimeters followed by the letter OD (See examples in S9.1.1(d)). The abbreviation "mm" shall follow hose sizes that are expressed in millimeters.
