
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### Hose.

S9.1.1Each vacuum brake hose shall be labeled, or cut from bulk hose that is labeled, at intervals of not more than 6 inches, measured from the end of one legend to the beginning of the next, in block capital letters and numerals at least one-eighth of an inch high, with the information listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. The information need not be present on hose that is sold as part of a brake hose assembly or a motor vehicle. (a) The symbol DOT, constituting a certification by the hose manufacturer that the hose conforms to all applicable motor vehicle safety standards.

(b) A designation that identifies the manufacturer of the hose, which shall be filed in writing with: Office of Crash Avoidance Standards, Vehicle Dynamics Division, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. The designation may consist of block capital letters, numerals or a symbol.

(c) The month, day, and year, or the month and year, of manufacture, expressed in numerals. For example, 10/1/96 means October 1, 1996.

(d) The nominal inside diameter of the hose expressed in inches or fractions of inches or in millimeters, or the nominal outside diameter of plastic tubing expressed in inches or fractions of inches or in millimeters followed by the letters OD. The abbreviation "mm" shall follow hose sizes that are expressed in millimeters. (Example of inside diameter:,, 4 mm. Example of outside diameter:OD, 12 mm OD.)

(e) The letters "VL" or "VH" shall indicate that the component is a light-duty vacuum brake hose or heavy-duty vacuum brake hose, respectively.
