
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### Moisture absorption and burst strength.

S12.6(a) Prepare a sample of tubing twelve inches in length.

(b) Condition the tubing at 230 degrees Fahrenheit (110 degrees Celsius) for 24 hours in an air oven. Remove the tubing from the oven and within 30 seconds, and weigh it to establish the initial weight. The weight shall be measured with a resolution of 0.01 gram; if the scale has a higher resolution, then values of 0.005 gram and above shall be rounded to the nearest 0.01 gram and values below 0.005 gram shall be truncated.

(c) Place the tubing in an environmental chamber and condition it for 100 hours at 100 percent relative humidity and a temperature of 75 degrees Fahrenheit (24 degrees Celsius).

(d) Remove the tubing from the chamber and within a period of 5 minutes, remove all surface moisture from the tubing using cloth and weigh the tubing to establish the conditioned weight. Weight shall be measured to the nearest 0.01 gram as in S12.6(b).

(e) Calculate percentage of moisture absorption as follows:

(f) Install end fittings according to the end fitting manufacturers instructions.

(g) Conduct the burst strength test in S12.5 except use 80 percent of the burst strength pressure for the size of tubing being tested as specified in Table VIII.
