
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### Preparation.

(b)Prepare an air brake tubing assembly with a free length of 6 inches (six inches of exposed tubing between the end fittings), with the end fittings installed in accordance with the end fitting manufacturer's instructions. If necessary install adapters on the end fittings to permit attachment to the machine, to keep water from entering the tubing assembly, and/or to ensure that the tubing assembly is in a straight position when installed on the machine. Subject the tubing assembly to four complete cycles of the following sequence:

(1) Condition the tubing assembly in an environmental chamber at minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 40 degrees Celsius) for 30 minutes. Remove from the chamber and allow to warm at room temperature for 30 minutes.

(2) Condition the tubing assembly by submerging it in boiling water for 15 minutes. Remove and allow to cool at room temperature for 30 minutes. Install the tubing assembly on the tension testing machine and apply tension to the tubing assembly at a rate of one inch per minute travel of the moving head until either the conditioned tensile load in Table VIII for the size of tubing being tested is reached or the free length of the tubing assembly reaches 9 inches, whichever occurs first.
