
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### Preparation.

(b)(1) Prepare an air brake tubing assembly with a free length of 18 inches (18 inches of exposed tubing between the end fittings), with the end fittings installed in accordance with the end fitting manufacturer's instructions. Record the initial tightening torque for an end fitting that uses a threaded retaining nut.

(2) Install the air brake tubing assembly on the vibration testing machine and, with the movable attachment point at the midpoint of its travel, adjust the distance between the attachment points so that they areinch closer together than the distance at which the tubing assembly is taut.

(3) With the tubing assembly inside the environmental chamber, apply compressed air to the tubing assembly at a regulated pressure of 120 psi and maintain the supply of air to the tubing assembly for the duration of the test. Set the temperature of the environmental chamber to 220 degrees Fahrenheit (104 degrees Celsius) and initiate cycling of the movable attachment point. After 250,000 cycles, set the temperature of the environmental chamber to minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 40 degrees Celsius). After 500,000 cycles, set the temperature of the environmental chamber to 220 degrees Fahrenheit (104 degrees Celsius). After 750,000 cycles, set the temperature of the environmental chamber to minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 40 degrees Celsius). Measure the air flow rate just prior to 1,000,000 cycles and if the compressed air flow rate supplied to the air brake tubing assembly exceeds 50 cubic centimeters per minute this constitutes failure of the test. Stop the cycling at 1,000,000 cycles and set the environmental chamber temperature to 75 degrees Fahrenheit (24 degrees Celsius), while air pressure is still supplied to the air brake tubing assembly. After one hour, measure the compressed air flow rate supplied to the air brake tubing assembly and if the rate exceeds 25 cubic centimeters per minute this constitutes failure of the test.

(4) For end fittings that use a threaded retaining nut, apply 20 percent of the original tightening torque as recorded in S12.21(b)(1). If the retention nut visibly moves, this constitutes a failure of the test.
