
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.106 Standard No. 106; Brake hoses.
####### Preparation.

(b)Utilize an air brake tubing assembly or prepare a 12 inch length of tubing and install end fittings according to the end fitting manufacturer's instructions. Attach one end of the assembly to the hydraulic pressure supply and plug the other end of the assembly, fill the assembly with ASTM IRM 903 oil and bleed any air from the assembly, and place the tubing assembly inside an environmental chamber. Conduct the following tests:

(1) With atmospheric pressure applied to the oil inside the tubing assembly, set the environmental chamber temperature to 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93 degrees Celsius) and condition the tubing assembly for 24 hours.

(2) With the temperature maintained at 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93 degrees Celsius), increase the oil pressure inside the tubing assembly at a rate of 3,000 psi per minute to 450 psi, and hold this pressure for 5 minutes.

(3) Decrease the oil pressure inside the tubing assembly at a rate of 3,000 psi per minute to atmospheric pressure and set the temperature of the environmental chamber to 75 degrees Fahrenheit (24 degrees Celsius). Condition the tubing assembly at this temperature for 1 hour.

(4) Set the temperature of the environmental chamber to minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 40 degrees Celsius) and condition the tubing assembly for 24 hours.

(5) With the temperature maintained at minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 40 degrees Celsius), increase the hydraulic pressure inside the tubing assembly at a rate of 3,000 psi per minute to 450 psi, and hold this pressure for 5 minutes.
