
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 37 - TRANSPORTATION SERVICES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES (ADA)
#### Subpart H - Over-the-Road Buses (OTRBs)
##### ยง 37.213 Information collection requirements.
###### e.g.

(2) The passenger shall be required to make only one request, which covers all legs of the requested trip (, in the case of a round trip, both the outgoing and return legs of the trip; in the case of a multi-leg trip, all connecting legs). The operator shall transmit a copy of the form to the passenger in one of the following ways:

(i) By first-class United States mail. The operator shall transmit the form no later than the end of the next business day following the request;

(ii) By telephone or email. If the passenger can receive the confirmation by this method, then the operator shall provide a unique confirmation number to the passenger when the request is made and provide a paper copy of the form when the passenger arrives for the requested trip; or

(iii) By facsimile transmission. If the passenger can receive the confirmation by this method, then the operator shall transmit the form within twenty-four hours of the request for transportation.

(3) The operator shall retain its copy of the completed form for five years. The operator shall make these forms available to Department of Transportation or Department of Justice officials at their request.

(4) Beginning October 29, 2001, for large operators, and October 28, 2002, for small operators, and on the last Monday in October in each year thereafter, each operator shall submit a summary of its forms to the Department of Transportation. The summary shall state the number of requests for accessible bus service and the number of times these requests were met. It shall also include the name, address, telephone number, and contact person name for the operator.

(b) This paragraph (b) applies to small fixed route operators who choose to provide equivalent service to passengers with disabilities under ยง 37.183(b)(2).

(1) The operator shall complete the Service Request Form in Appendix A to this subpart on every occasion on which a passenger with a disability needs equivalent service in order to be provided transportation.
