
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 37 - TRANSPORTATION SERVICES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES (ADA)
#### Subpart H - Over-the-Road Buses (OTRBs)
##### § 37.215 Review of requirements.

(a) Beginning October 28, 2005, the Department will review the requirements of § 37.189 and their implementation. The Department will complete this review by October 30, 2006.

(1) As part of this review, the Department will consider factors including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:

(i) The percentage of accessible buses in the demand-responsive fleets of large and small demand-responsive operators.

(ii) The success of small and large demand-responsive operators' service at meeting the requests of passengers with disabilities for accessible buses in a timely manner.

(iii) The ridership of small and large operators' demand-responsive service by passengers with disabilities.

(iv) The volume of complaints by passengers with disabilities.

(v) Cost and service impacts of implementation of the requirements of § 37.189.

(2) The Department will make one of the following decisions on the basis of the review:

(i) Retain § 37.189 without change; or

(ii) Modify the requirements of § 37.189 for large and/or small demand-responsive operators.

(b) Beginning October 30, 2006, the Department will review the requirements of §§ 37.183, 37.185, 37.187, 37.191 and 37.193(a) and their implementation. The Department will complete this review by October 29, 2007.

(1) As part of this review, the Department will consider factors including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:

(i) The percentage of accessible buses in the fixed-route fleets of large and small fixed-route operators.

(ii) The success of small and large fixed-route operators' interim or equivalent service at meeting the requests of passengers with disabilities for accessible buses in a timely manner.

(iii) The ridership of small and large operators' fixed-route service by passengers with disabilities.

(iv) The volume of complaints by passengers with disabilities.

(v) Cost and service impacts of implementation of the requirements of these sections.

(2) The Department will make one of the following decisions on the basis of the review:

(i) Retain §§ 37.183, 37.185, 37.187, 37.191, 37.193(a) without change; or

(ii) Modify the requirements of §§ 37.183, 37.185, 37.187, 37.191, 37.193(a) for large and/or small fixed-route operators.
