
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 37 - TRANSPORTATION SERVICES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES (ADA)
#### Appendix C to Part 37 - Certifications

The (name of agency) certifies that its demand responsive service offered to individuals with disabilities, including individuals who use wheelchairs, is equivalent to the level and quality of service offered to individuals without disabilities. Such service, when viewed in its entirety, is provided in the most integrated setting feasible and is equivalent with respect to:

(1) Response time;

(2) Fares;

(3) Geographic service area;

(4) Hours and days of service;

(5) Restrictions on trip purpose;

(6) Availability of information and reservation capability; and

(7) Constraints on capacity or service availability.

In accordance with 49 CFR 37.77, public entities operating demand responsive systems for the general public which receive financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. 5311 must file this certification with the appropriate state program office before procuring any inaccessible vehicle. Such public entities not receiving FTA funds shall also file the certification with the appropriate state program office. Such public entities receiving FTA funds under any other section of the FT Act must file the certification with the appropriate FTA regional office. This certification is valid for no longer than one year from its date of filing.

The (name of Metropolitan Planning Organization) hereby certifies that it has reviewed the ADA paratransit plan prepared by (name of submitting entity (ies)) as required under 49 CFR part 37. 139(h) and finds it to be in conformance with the transportation plan developed under 49 CFR part 613 and 23 CFR part 450 (the FTA/FHWA joint planning regulation). This certification is valid for one year.

This is to certify that (name of public entity (ies)) has conducted a survey of existing paratransit services as required by 49 CFR 37.137 (a).

This is to certify that service provided by other entities but included in the ADA paratransit plan submitted by (name of submitting entity (ies)) meets the requirements of 49 CFR part 37, subpart F providing that ADA eligible individuals have access to the service; the service is provided in the manner represented; and, that efforts will be made to coordinate the provision of paratransit service offered by other providers.

This is to certify that (name of entity covered by joint plan) is committed to providing ADA paratransit service as part of this coordinated plan and in conformance with the requirements of 49 CFR part 37, subpart F.

This is to certify that (name of entity covered by joint plan) will, in accordance with 49 CFR 37.141, maintain current levels of paratransit service until the coordinated plan goes into effect.

This is to certify that all ADA paratransit plans required under 49 CFR 37.139 have been received by (state DOT)
