
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Option 2 (Adaptive Driving Beam systems).

S9.4.1.6-

S9.4.1.6.1 The system must be capable of detecting system malfunctions (including but not limited to sensor obstruction).

S9.4.1.6.2 If the system detects a malfunction that prevents the system from operating in automatic mode safely and in conformance with these requirements, the headlighting system must operate in manual mode until the malfunction is corrected and must provide the driver with a visible warning that the malfunction exists.

S9.4.1.6.3 When operating in manual mode, the system must provide only switching between lower and upper beams as provided in S9.4.

S9.4.1.6.4 When operating in automatic mode, the system must only switch between lower, upper, and adaptive driving beams. The adaptive driving beams must be designed to conform to the requirements of this section.

S9.4.1.6.4.1 The adaptive driving beams must consist only of area(s) of reduced intensity, area(s) of unreduced intensity, and transition zone(s).

S9.4.1.6.4.2 The adaptive driving beams must be designed to conform to the photometry requirements of Table XXI when tested according to S14.9.3.12, and, for replaceable bulb headlighting systems, when using any replaceable light source designated for use in the system.

S9.4.1.6.4.3 In an area of reduced intensity, the adaptive driving beams must be designed to conform to the photometric intensity requirements of Table XIX as specified in Table II for the specific headlamp unit and aiming method, when tested according to the procedure of S14.2.5, and, for replaceable bulb headlighting systems, when using any replaceable light source designated for use in the system.

S9.4.1.6.4.4 In an area of unreduced intensity, the adaptive driving beams must be designed to conform to the photometric intensity requirements of Table XVIII as specified in Table II for the specific headlamp unit and aiming method, when tested according to the procedure of S14.2.5, and, for replaceable bulb headlighting systems, when using any replaceable light source designated for use in the system.

S9.4.1.6.4.5 A transition zone not to exceed 1.0 degree in either the horizontal or vertical direction is permitted between an area of reduced intensity and an area of unreduced intensity. The Table XVIII and Table XIX photometric intensity requirements do not apply in a transition zone, except that the maximum at H-V in Table XVIII as specified in Table II for the specific headlamp unit and aiming method may not be exceeded at any point in a transition zone.

S9.4.1.6.4.6 For vehicle speeds below 32 kph (20 mph), the system must provide only lower beams (unless manually overridden according to S9.4.1.2).

S9.4.1.6.4.7 The adaptive driving beams must not be energized simultaneously with the lower or upper beams except as provided in Table II.

S9.4.1.6.5 The adaptive driving beams may be provided by any combination of headlamps or light sources, provided parking lamps are installed. If parking lamps meeting the requirements of this standard are not required according to Table I and are not installed, the adaptive driving beams may be provided using any combination of headlamps but must include the outermost installed headlamps to show the overall width of the vehicle.
