
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Vertical aim.

S10.18.8.1.1The VHAD must include the necessary references and scales relative to the horizontal plane to assure correct vertical aim for photometry and aiming purposes. An off vehicle measurement of the angle of the plane of the ground is permitted. In addition, an equal number of graduations from the "0" position representing angular changes in the axis in the upward and downward directions must be provided.

S10.18.8.1.1.1 Each graduation must represent a change in the vertical position of the mechanical axis not larger than 0.19&#xB0; (1 in at 25 ft) to provide for variations in aim at least 1.2&#xB0; above and below the horizontal, and have an accuracy relative to the zero mark of less than 0.1&#xB0;.

S10.18.8.1.1.2 The VHAD must be marked to indicate headlamp aim movement in the upward and downward directions.

S10.18.8.1.1.3 Each graduation must indicate a linear movement of the scale indicator of not less than 0.05 in (1.27 mm) if a direct reading analog indicator is used. If a remote reading indicator is provided, it must represent the actual aim movement in a clear, understandable format.

S10.18.8.1.1.4 The vertical indicator must perform through a minimum range of +/-1.2&#xB0;.

S10.18.8.1.1.5 Means must be provided in the VHAD for compensating for deviations in floor slope less than 1.2&#xB0; from the horizontal that would affect the correct positioning of the headlamp for vertical aim.

S10.18.8.1.1.6 The graduations must be legible under an illumination level not greater than 30 foot candles, measured at the top of the graduation, by an observer having 20/20 vision (Snellen), and must permit aim adjustment to within 0.19&#xB0; (1 in at 25 ft).
