
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Dimensional Specifications for Location of Aiming Pads on Replaceable Bulb Headlamp Units.

S10.18.7.1.1 The lens must have three aiming pads which meet the requirements of Figure 4,The aiming pads need not be centered at the geometric center of the lens, or on the optical axis. Except as provided in S10.18.7.1.2, a whole number, which represents the distance in tenths of an inch (i.e. 0.3 inch = 3) from the aiming reference plane to the respective aiming pads which are not in contact with that plane, must be inscribed adjacent to each respective aiming pad on the lens. The height of these numbers must be not less than .157 inch (4 mm). If there is interference between the plane and the area of the lens between the aiming pads, the whole number represents the distance to a secondary plane. The secondary plane must be located parallel to the aiming reference plane and as close to the lens as possible without causing interference.

S10.18.7.1.2 If the most forward aiming pad is the lower inboard aiming pad, then the dimensions may be placed anywhere on the lens. The dimension for the outboard aiming pad (Dimension F in Figure 4) must be followed by the letter "H" and the dimension for the center aiming pad must be followed by the letter "V." The dimensions must be expressed in tenths of an inch.
