
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Horizontal aim.

S10.18.8.1.2The VHAD must include references and scales relative to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle necessary to assure correct horizontal aim for photometry and aiming purposes. A "0" mark must be used to indicate alignment of the headlamps relative to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle. In addition, an equal number of graduations from the "0" position representing equal angular changes in the axis relative to the vehicle axis must be provided. If the horizontal VHAD is part of an adaptive driving beam system, S10.18.8.1.2.1 through S10.18.8.1.2.4 are not required.

S10.18.8.1.2.1 Each graduation must represent a change in the horizontal position of the mechanical axis not greater than 0.38&#xB0; (2 in at 25 ft) to provide for variations in aim at least 0.76&#xB0; (4 in at 25 ft) to the left and right of the longitudinal axis of the vehicle, and must have an accuracy relative to the zero mark of less than 0.1&#xB0;.

S10.18.8.1.2.2 The VHAD must be marked to indicate headlamp aim movement in the left and right directions.

S10.18.8.1.2.3 The graduations must be legible under an illumination level not greater than 30 foot candles, measured at the top of the graduation, by an observer having 20/20 vision (Snellen), and must permit aim adjustment to within 0.38&#xB0; (2 in at 25 ft).

S10.18.8.1.2.4 The horizontal indicator must perform through a minimum range of +/-0.76&#xB0; (4 in at 25 ft); however, the indicator itself must be capable of recalibration over a movement of +/-2.5&#xB0; relative to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle to accommodate any adjustment necessary for recalibrating the indicator after vehicle repair from accident damage.
