
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Measuring the cutoff parameter.

S10.18.9.1.5

S10.18.9.1.5.1 The headlamp is mounted on a headlamp test fixture which simulates its actual design location on any vehicle for which the headlamp is intended. The fixture, with the headlamp installed, is attached to the goniometer table in such a way that the fixture alignment axes are coincident with the goniometer axes. The headlamp is energized at the specified test voltage. The cutoff parameter must be measured at a distance of 10 m from a photosensor with a 10 mm diameter.

S10.18.9.1.5.2 The headlamp beam pattern is aimed with the cutoff at the H-H axis. There is no adjustment, shimming, or modification of the horizontal axis of the headlamp or test fixture, unless the headlamp is equipped with a VHAD. In this case the VHAD is adjusted to zero.

S10.18.9.1.5.3 A vertical scan of the beam pattern is conducted for a headlamp with a left side gradient by aligning the goniometer on a vertical line at 2.5&#xB0; L and scanning from 1.5&#xB0; U to 1.5&#xB0; D. For a headlamp with a right side gradient, a vertical scan of the beam pattern is conducted by aligning the goniometer on a vertical line at 2.0&#xB0; R and scanning from 1.5&#xB0; U to 1.5&#xB0; D.

S10.18.9.1.5.4 Determine the maximum gradient within the range of the scan by using the formula: G = log E(a)-logE(a + 0.1), where "G" is the gradient, "E" is illumination and "a" is vertical angular position. The maximum value of the gradient "G" determines the vertical angular location of the cutoff. Perform vertical scans at 1.0&#xB0; L and R of the measurement point of the maximum gradient to determine the inclination.
