
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Horizontal aim, upper beam.

S10.18.9.4

S10.18.9.4.1 If the upper beam is combined in a headlamp with a lower beam, the horizontal aim of the upper beam must not be changed from the aim set using the procedures of S10.18.9.1 and S10.18.9.2 used for the lower beam.

S10.18.9.4.2 If the upper beam is not combined in a headlamp with the lower beam and has fixed horizontal aim or has a horizontal VHAD, then the headlamp is mounted on a headlamp test fixture which simulates its actual design location on any vehicle for which the headlamp is intended. The fixture, with the headlamp installed, is attached to the goniometer table in such a way that the fixture alignment axes are coincident with the goniometer axes. The headlamp must be energized at 12.8 +/-0.20 mV. There is no adjustment, shimming, or modification of the horizontal axis of the headlamp or test fixture, unless the headlamp is equipped with a VHAD. In this case the VHAD is adjusted to zero.

S10.18.9.4.3 If the upper beam is not combined in a headlamp with a lower beam, and it does not have a VHAD, the horizontal aim of the upper beam is adjusted so that the maximum beam intensity is located on the V-V axis.
