
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Reflex reflector photometry measurement adjustments.

S14.2.3.8.3

S14.2.3.8.3.1 Reflex reflectors, which do not have a fixed rotational position on the vehicle, are rotated about their axis through 360&#xB0; to find the minimum photometric value which must be reported for each test point. If the output falls below the minimum requirement at any test point, the reflector is rotated +/-5&#xB0; about its axis from the angle where the minimum output occurred, and the maximum value within this angle is reported as a tolerance value.

S14.2.3.8.3.2 Reflex reflectors, which by their design or construction, permit mounting on a vehicle in a fixed rotational position, are tested in this position. A visual locator, such as the word TOP is not considered adequate to establish a fixed rotational position on the vehicle.

S14.2.3.8.3.3 If uncolored reflections from the front surface interfere with photometric readings at any test point, additional readings are taken 1&#xB0; above, below, right, and left of the test point, and the lowest of these readings and its location is reported provided the minimum test point requirement for the test point is met.
