
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Performance requirements.

S14.4.2.2.4Plastic lenses, other than those incorporating reflex reflectors, used for inner lenses or those covered by another material and not exposed directly to sunlight must meet the optical material test requirements when covered by the outer lens or other material.

S14.4.2.2.4.1 After completion of the outdoor exposure test the haze and loss of surface luster as measured by ASTM D1003-92 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5) must not be greater than:

(a) 30% for materials used for outer lenses, other than those incorporating reflex reflectors;

(b) 7% for materials used for reflex reflectors and lenses used in front of reflex reflectors.

S14.4.2.2.4.2 After completion of the outdoor exposure test materials used for headlamp lenses must show no deterioration.

S14.4.2.2.4.3 After completion of the outdoor exposure test all materials, when compared with the unexposed control samples, must not show physical changes affecting performance such as color bleeding, delamination, crazing, or cracking. Additionally materials used for reflex reflectors and lenses used in front of reflex reflectors must not show surface deterioration or dimensional changes.

S14.4.2.2.4.4 After completion of the outdoor exposure test all materials, when compared with the unexposed control samples, must not have their luminous transmittance changed by more than 25% when tested in accordance with ASTM E308-66 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5) using CIE Illuminant A (2856K).

S14.4.2.2.4.5 After completion of the outdoor exposure test all materials must conform to the color test of this standard in the range of thickness stated by the material manufacturer.
