
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Procedure.

S14.6.4.1

S14.6.4.1.1 A headlamp connector test must be performed on each filament circuit of the sample headlamp prior to the test in S14.6.4.1.2 according to Figure 4 and S14.6.15. The power source is set to provide 12.8 volts and the resistance must be set to produce 10 amperes.

S14.6.4.1.2 The headlamp, with connector attached to the terminals, unfixtured and in its designed operating attitude with all drain holes, breathing devices or other designed openings in their normal operating positions, is subjected to a salt spray (fog) test in accordance with ASTM B117-73 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), for 240 hours, consisting of ten successive 24-hour periods.

S14.6.4.1.3 During each period, the headlamp is mounted in the middle of the chamber and exposed for 23 hours to the salt spray. The spray is not activated during the 24th hour. The bulb is removed from the headlamp and from the test chamber during the one hour of salt spray deactivation and reinserted for the start of the next test period, at the end of the first and last three 23-hour periods of salt spray exposure, and at the end of any two of the fourth through seventh 23-hour periods of salt-spray exposure.

S14.6.4.1.4 The test chamber is closed at all times except for a maximum of 2 minutes which is allowed for removal or replacement of a bulb during each period.

S14.6.4.1.5 After the ten periods, the lens-reflector unit without the bulb must be immersed in deionized water for 5 minutes, then secured and allowed to dry by natural convection only.

S14.6.4.1.6 Using the voltage, resistance and pre-test set up of S14.6.4.1.1 the current in each filament circuit must be measured after the test conducted in S14.6.4.1.2.
