
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Procedure.

S14.6.7.1

S14.6.7.1.1 The test fixture consists of a horizontal steel plate to which three threaded steel or aluminum rods ofinch diameter are screwed vertically behind the headlamp.

S14.6.7.1.2 The sample headlamp assembly is clamped to the vertical rods, which are behind the headlamp. All attachments to the headlamp assembly are made behind the lens and vents or openings, and are not within 2 inches laterally of a vent inlet or outlet.

S14.6.7.1.3 The mounted headlamp assembly is oriented in its design operating position, and is placed in a controlled environment at a temperature of 100&#xB0; + 7&#xB0;-0 &#xB0;F (38&#xB0; + 4&#xB0;-0 &#xB0;C) with a relative humidity of not less than 90%. All drain holes, breathing devices, and other openings are set in their normal operation positions for all phases of the humidity test.

S14.6.7.1.4 The headlamp is subjected to 24 consecutive 3-hour test cycles. In each cycle, the headlamp is energized for 1 hour at design voltage with the highest combination of filament wattages that are intended to be used, and then de-energized for 2 hours. If the headlamp incorporates a turn signal then the turn signal flashes at 90 flashes per minute with a 75% +/-2% current "on-time."

S14.6.7.1.5 Within 3 minutes after the completion of the 24th cycle, the air flow test will begin. The following procedure shall occur: the mounted assembly is removed, placed in an insulating box and covered with foam material so that there is no visible air space around the assembly; the box is closed, taken to the air flow test chamber, and placed within it. Inside the chamber, the assembly with respect to the air flow, is oriented in its design operating position. The assembly is positioned in the chamber so that the center of the lens is in the center of the opening of the air flow entry duct during the test. The headlamp has at least 3 inches clearance on all sides, and at least 4 inches to the entry and exit ducts at the closest points. If vent tubes are used which extend below the lamp body, the 3 inches are measured from the bottom of the vent tube or its protection. The temperature of the chamber is 73&#xB0; + 7&#xB0; - 0 &#xB0;F (23&#xB0; + 4&#xB0; - 0 &#xB0;C) with a relative humidity of 30% + 10% - 0%. The headlamp is not energized.

S14.6.7.1.6 Before the test specified in paragraph S14.6.7.1.7 of this section, the uniformity of the air flow in the empty test chamber at a plane 4 inches downstream of the air entry duct is measured over a 4 inch square grid. The uniformity of air flow at each grid point is +/-10% of the average air flow specified in paragraph S14.6.7.1.7 of this section.

S14.6.7.1.7 The mounted assembly in the chamber is exposed, for one hour, to an average air flow of 330 + 0 -30 ft/min as measured with an air velocity measuring probe having an accuracy of +/-3% in the 330 ft/min range. The average air flow is the average of the velocity recorded at six points around the perimeter of the lens. The six points are determined as follows: At the center of the lens, construct a horizontal plane. The first two points are located in the plane, 1 inch outward from the intersection of the plane and each edge of the lens. Then, trisect the distance between these two points and construct longitudinal vertical planes at the two intermediate locations formed by the trisection. The four remaining points are located in the vertical planes, one inch above the top edge of the lens, and one inch below the bottom edge of the lens.

S14.6.7.1.8 After one hour, the headlamp is removed and inspected for moisture.
