
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Procedure.

S14.6.6.4.1

S14.6.6.4.1.1 A sample headlamp lens surface that would normally be exposed to road dirt is uniformly sprayed with any appropriate mixture of dust and water or other materials to reduce the photometric output at the H-V test point of the upper beam (or the&#xB0;D-1&#xB0;R test point of the lower beam as applicable) to 25% +/-2% of the output originally measured in the applicable photometric compliance test.

S14.6.6.4.1.2 A headlamp with a single type HB1 or type HB2 light source is tested on the upper beam only.

S14.6.6.4.1.3 Such reduction is determined under the same conditions as that of the original photometric measurement.

S14.6.6.4.1.4 After the photometric output of the lamp has been reduced as specified above, the sample lamp and its mounting hardware must be mounted in an environmental chamber in a manner similar to that indicated in Figure 7 "Dirt/Ambient Test Setup."

S14.6.6.4.1.5 The headlamp is soaked for one hour at a temperature of 35&#xB0; + 4&#xB0; - 0 &#xB0;C) and then the lamp is energized according to the procedure of this section for one hour in a still air condition, allowing the temperature to rise from the soak temperature.

S14.6.6.4.1.6 At the end of one hour the sample lamp is returned to a room ambient temperature of 23&#xB0; + 4&#xB0; - 0 &#xB0;C and a relative humidity of 30% +/-10% and allowed to stabilize to the room ambient temperature. The lens is then cleaned.
