
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Procedure.

S14.6.13.1

S14.6.13.1.1 The sample headlamp assembly is mounted in designed vehicle position and set at nominal aim (H = 0, V = 0).

S14.6.13.1.2 A sealed beam headlamp, except Type G and Type H, is removed from its mounting and replaced by the applicable deflectometer. (Type C and Type D-Figure 18, Type A and Type E-Figure 16, Type B-Figure 17, and Type F-Figure 14).

S14.6.13.1.3 Sealed beam headlamps Type G and Type H have the adapter of Figure 15 and the deflectometer of Figure 14 attached to the headlamp.

S14.6.13.1.4 A torque of 2.25 Nm must be applied to the headlamp assembly through the deflectometer and a reading on the thumbwheel is taken. The torque must be removed and a second reading on the thumbwheel is taken.

S14.6.13.1.5 Headlamps other than sealed beam headlamps must have the downward force used to create the torque applied parallel to the aiming reference plane, through the aiming pads, and displaced forward using a lever arm such that the force is applied on an axis that is perpendicular to the aiming reference plane and originates at the center of the aiming pad pattern (see Figure 3).

S14.6.13.1.6 For headlamps using the aiming pad locations of Group I, the distance between the point of application of force and the aiming reference plane is not less than 168.3 mm plus the distance from the aiming reference plane to the secondary plane, if used.

S14.6.13.1.7 For headlamps using the aiming pad locations of Group II, the distance between the point of application of force and the aiming reference plane is not less than 167.9 mm plus the distance to the secondary plane, if used.

S14.6.13.1.8 For headlamps using the nonadjustable Headlamp Aiming Device Locating Plates for the 146 mm diameter, the 176 mm diameter, and the 92x150 mm sealed beam, the distance between the point of application of force and the aiming plane is not, respectively, less than 177.4 mm, 176.2 mm, and 193.7 mm.
