
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Procedure.

S14.7.1.1

S14.7.1.1.1 With the sample light source rigidly mounted in a fixture in a manner indicated in Figure 8, a force 4.0 +/-0.1 pounds (17.8 +/-0.4N) is applied at a distance "A" from the reference plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the glass capsule and parallel to the smallest dimension of the pressed glass capsule seal.

S14.7.1.1.2 The force is applied (using a rod with a hard rubber tip with a minimum spherical radius of .039 in [1 mm]) radially to the surface of the glass capsule in four locations in a plane parallel to the reference plane and spaced at a distance "A" from that plane. These force applications are spaced 90&#xB0; apart starting at the point perpendicular to the smallest dimension of the pressed seal of the glass capsule.

S14.7.1.1.3. The bulb deflection is measured at the glass capsule surface at 180&#xB0; opposite to the force application. Distance "A" for a replaceable light source other than an HB Type is the dimension provided in accordance with appendix A of part 564 of this chapter, section I.A.1 if the light source has a lower beam filament, or as specified in section I.B.1 if the light source has only an upper beam filament.
