
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Test circuit setup.

S14.9.3.1.1

S14.9.3.1.1.1 The effective series resistance in the total circuit between the power supply and the bulb sockets (excluding the flasher and bulb load(s) using shorting bars) is 0.10 +/-0.01 ohm.

S14.9.3.1.1.2 The circuit resistance at A-B of Figure 22 is measured with flasher and bulb load(s) each shorted out with an effective shunt resistance not to exceed 0.005 ohms.

S14.9.3.1.1.3 The voltage to the bulbs at C-D of Figure 22 is adjusted to 12.8 volts (or 6.4 volts) with the flasher shorted out by an effective shunt resistance not to exceed 0.005 ohms. The load current is adjusted by simultaneously adjusting trimmer resistors, R.

S14.9.3.1.1.4 For testing fixed-load flashers at other required voltages, adjust the power supply to provide required voltages, at the required temperatures, at C-D of Figure 22, without readjustment of trimming resistors, R.

S14.9.3.1.1.5 For variable-load flashers, the circuit is first adjusted for 12.8 volts (or 6.4 volts) at C-D of Figure 22, with the minimum required load, and the power supply is adjusted to provide other required test voltages, at required temperatures, at C-D of Figure 22, without readjustment of trimming resistors, R (each such required voltage being set with the minimum required load in place). The required voltage tests with the maximum load are conducted without readjusting each corresponding power supply voltage, previously set with minimum bulb load.

S14.9.3.1.1.6 A suitable high impedance measuring device connected to points X-Y in Figure 22 is used for measuring flash rate, percent current "on" time, and voltage drop across the flasher. The measurement of these quantities does not affect the circuit.
