
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Test scenarios.

S14.9.3.12.1

S14.9.3.12.1.1 Any of the scenarios specified in Table XXII and Figures 27, 28, 29, and 30 may be tested. Where a range of values is specified, the vehicle shall be able to meet the requirements at all values within the range.

S14.9.3.12.1.2 Any speed that conforms to the speeds specified for that test scenario will be selected for the test vehicle. The vehicle will achieve and maintain this speed +/- 0.45 m/s (1 mph) prior to reaching, and then throughout, the measurement distance range specified for that scenario. Once the test speed is achieved and maintained, no sudden steering inputs, acceleration, braking, or anything that causes a change in vehicle pitch that affects the results of the test shall occur.

S14.9.3.12.1.3 For test scenarios involving curves, any radius within the allowable range specified for that test scenario may be selected. The curve shall nominally consist of a constant radius path and be referenced to the headlighting system midpoint. The actual path of the test vehicle shall not deviate from the nominal path by more than +/- 0.5 m throughout the measurement distance range.

S14.9.3.12.1.4 The test vehicle shall be driven within the lane and will not change lanes.

S14.9.3.12.1.5 The measurement distance is the linear distance measured from the headlighting system midpoint to the most forward point of the relevant photometric receptor head mounted on the test fixture.

S14.9.3.12.1.6 The illuminance values for each photometer, the instantaneous pitch of the test vehicle, and the measurement distance shall be recorded and synchronized throughout the measurement distance range specified for that scenario.
