
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.108 Standard No. 108; Lamps, reflective devices, and associated equipment.
####### Test vehicle preparation.

S14.9.3.12.4

S14.9.3.12.4.1 Tires on the test vehicle shall be inflated to the manufacturer's recommended cold inflation pressure +/- 7 kPa (1 psi). If more than one recommendation is provided, the tires are inflated to the cold inflation pressure +/- 7 kPa (1 psi) that corresponds to the lowest loaded condition listed.

S14.9.3.12.4.2 Before initiating testing, if the test vehicle is equipped with a fuel tank it shall be filled to approximately 100% of capacity with the appropriate fuel and maintained to at least 75% capacity throughout the testing.

S14.9.3.12.4.3 Headlamps on the test vehicle shall be aimed according to the vehicle manufacturer's instructions. The test vehicle shall be loaded within +/- 5 kg of the total vehicle weight during track testing prior to aiming the adaptive driving beam headlamps.

S14.9.3.12.4.4 The adaptive driving beam system shall be adjusted according to the manufacturer's instructions.

S14.9.3.12.4.5 To the extent practicable, adaptive driving beam system sensors and the windshield on the test vehicle (if an adaptive driving beam system sensor is behind the windshield) shall be clean and free of dirt and debris.

S14.9.3.12.4.6 The headlamp lenses of the test vehicle shall be clean and free from dirt and debris.

S14.9.3.12.4.7 The adaptive driving beam system shall be activated according to the manufacturer's instructions and all other independently controlled lamps, such as fog lamps, shall be turned off.
