
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.109 Standard No. 109; New pneumatic tires for vehicles manufactured from 1949 to 1975, bias ply tires, and T-type spare tires.
####### General.

S4.2.1Each tire shall conform to each of the following:

(a) It shall meet the requirements specified in S4.2.2 for its tire size designation, type, and maximum permissible inflation pressure.

(b) Its maximum permissible inflation pressure shall be either 32, 36, 40, or 60 psi, or 240, 280, 300, 340, or 350 kPa.

(c) Its load rating shall be that specified in a submission made by an individual manufacturer, pursuant to S4.4.1(a), or in one of the publications described in S4.4.1(b) for its size designation, type and each appropriate inflation pressure. If the maximum load rating for a particular tire size is shown in more than one of the publications described in S4.4.1(b), each tire of that size designation shall have a maximum load rating that is not less than the published maximum load rating, or if there are differing maximum load ratings for the same tire size designation, not less than the lowest published maximum load rating.

(d) It shall incorporate a tread wear indicator that will provide a visual indication that the tire has worn to a tread depth of 1.6 mm (inch).

(e) It shall, before being subjected to either the endurance test procedure specified in S5.4 or the high speed performance procedure specified in S5.5, exhibit no visual evidence of tread, sidewall, ply, cord, innerliner, or bead separation, chunking, broken cords, cracking, or open splices.

(f) It shall meet the requirements of S4.2.2.5 and S4.2.2.6 when tested on a test wheel described in S5.4.2.1 either alone or simultaneously with up to 5 other tires.
