
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.109 Standard No. 109; New pneumatic tires for vehicles manufactured from 1949 to 1975, bias ply tires, and T-type spare tires.
####### S4.3 Labeling Requirements.

Except as provided in S4.3.1 and S4.3.2 of this standard, each tire, except for those certified to comply with S5.5 of ยง 571.139, shall have permanently molded into or onto both sidewalls, in letters and numerals not less than 0.078 inches high, the information shown in paragraphs S4.3 (a) through (g) of this standard. On at least one sidewall, the information shall be positioned in an area between the maximum section width and bead of the tire, unless the maximum section width of the tire falls between the bead and one-fourth of the distance from the bead to the shoulder of the tire. For tires where the maximum section width falls in that area, locate all required labeling between the bead and a point one-half the distance from the bead to the shoulder of the tire. However, in no case shall the information be positioned on the tire so that it is obstructed by the flange or any rim designated for use with that tire in Standards Nos. 109 and 110 (Sec. 571.109 and Sec. 571.110 of this part).

(a) One size designation, except that equivalent inch and metric size designations may be used;

(b) Maximum permissible inflation pressure;

(c) Maximum load rating;

(d) The generic name of each cord material used in the plies (both sidewall and tread area) of the tire;

(e) Actual number of plies in the sidewall, and the actual number of plies in the tread area if different;

(f) The words "tubeless" or "tube type" as applicable; and

(g) The word "radial" if the tire is a radial ply tire.

S4.3.1 Each tire shall be labeled with the symbol DOT in the manner specified in part 574 of this chapter, which shall constitute a certification that the tire conforms to applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards.

S4.3.2 Each tire shall be labeled with the name of the manufacturer, or brand name and number assigned to the manufacturer in the manner specified in part 574.

S4.3.3 [Reserved]

S4.3.4 If the maximum inflation pressure of a tire is 240, 280, 300, 340, or 350 kPa, then:

(a) Each marking of that inflation pressure pursuant to S4.3(b) shall be followed in parenthesis by the equivalent inflation pressure in psi, rounded to the next higher whole number; and

(b) Each marking of the tire's maximum load rating pursuant to S4.3(c) in kilograms shall be followed in parenthesis by the equivalent load rating in pounds, rounded to the nearest whole number.

S4.3.5 If the maximum inflation pressure of a tire is 420 kPa (60 psi), the tire shall have permanently molded into or onto both sidewalls, in letters and numerals not less than 12.7 mm (inch), the words "Inflate to 420 kPa (60 psi)". On both sidewalls, the words shall be positioned in an area between the tire shoulder and the bead of the tire. However, in no case shall the words be positioned on the tire so that they are obstructed by the flange of any rim designated for use with that tire in this standard or in Standard No. 110 (ยง 571.110 of this part).
