
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.109 Standard No. 109; New pneumatic tires for vehicles manufactured from 1949 to 1975, bias ply tires, and T-type spare tires.
####### Test procedure.

S5.4.2

S5.4.2.1 Mount the tire and wheel assembly on a test axle and press it against a flat-faced steel test wheel 1708 mm (67.23 inches) in diameter and at least as wide as the section width of the tire to be tested or an approved equivalent test wheel, with the applicable test load specified in the table in S5.4.2.3 for the tire's size designation, type and maximum permissible inflation pressure.

S5.4.2.2 During the test, the air surrounding the test area shall be 38&#xB0; +/-3 &#xB0;C (100&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;F).

S5.4.2.3 Conduct the test at 80 kilometers per hour (km/h)(50 miles per hour) in accordance with the following schedule without pressure adjustment or other interruptions:

The loads for the following periods are the specified percentage of the maximum load rating marked on the tire sidewall:

S5.4.2.4 Immediately after running the tire the required time, measure its inflation pressure. Allow the tire to cool for one hour. Then deflate the tire, remove it from the test rim, and inspect it for the conditions specified in S4.2.2.5(a).

S5.5 High speed performance.

S5.5.1 After preparing the tire in accordance with S5.4.1, mount the tire and wheel assembly in accordance with S5.4.2.1, and press it against the test wheel with a load of 88 percent of the tire's maximum load rating as marked on the tire sidewall.

S5.5.2 Break in the tire by running it for 2 hours at 80 km/h (50 mph).

S5.5.3 Allow to cool to 38&#xB0; +/-3 &#xB0;C (100&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;F) and readjust the inflation pressure to the applicable pressure specified in Table II.

S5.5.4 Without readjusting inflation pressure, test at 121 km/h (75 mph) for 30 minutes, 129 km/h (80 mph) for 30 minutes, and 137 km/h (85 mph) for 30 minutes.

S5.5.5 Immediately after running the tire the required time, measure its inflation pressure. Allow the tire to cool for one hour. Then deflate the tire, remove it from the test rim, and inspect it for the conditions specified in S4.2.2.5(a).
