
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.110 Tire selection and rims and motor home/recreation vehicle trailer load carrying capacity information for motor vehicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) or less.
####### Placard.

S4.3Each vehicle, except for a trailer or incomplete vehicle, shall show the information specified in S4.3 (a) through (g), and may show, at the manufacturer's option, the information specified in S4.3 (h) and (i), on a placard permanently affixed to the driver's side B-pillar. In each vehicle without a driver's side B-pillar and with two doors on the driver's side of the vehicle opening in opposite directions, the placard shall be affixed on the forward edge of the rear side door. If the above locations do not permit the affixing of a placard that is legible, visible and prominent, the placard shall be permanently affixed to the rear edge of the driver's side door. If this location does not permit the affixing of a placard that is legible, visible and prominent, the placard shall be affixed to the inward facing surface of the vehicle next to the driver's seating position. This information shall be in the English language and conform in color and format, not including the border surrounding the entire placard, as shown in the example set forth in Figure 1 in this standard. At the manufacturer's option, the information specified in S4.3 (c), (d), and, as appropriate, (h) and (i) may be shown, alternatively to being shown on the placard, on a tire inflation pressure label which must conform in color and format, not including the border surrounding the entire label, as shown in the example set forth in Figure 2 in this standard. The label shall be permanently affixed and proximate to the placard required by this paragraph. The information specified in S4.3 (e) shall be shown on both the vehicle placard and on the tire inflation pressure label (if such a label is affixed to provide the information specified in S4.3 (c), (d), and, as appropriate, (h) and (i)) may be shown in the format and color scheme set forth in Figures 1 and 2. If the vehicle is a motor home and is equipped with a propane supply, the weight of full propane tanks must be included in the vehicle's unloaded vehicle weight. If the vehicle is a motor home and is equipped with an on-board potable water supply, the weight of such on-board water must be treated as cargo.

(a) Vehicle capacity weight expressed as "The combined weight of occupants and cargo should never exceed XXX kilograms or XXX pounds";

(b) Designated seated capacity (expressed in terms of total number of occupants and number of occupants for each front and rear seat location);

(c) Vehicle manufacturer's recommended cold tire inflation pressure for front, rear and spare tires, subject to the limitations of S4.3.4. For full size spare tires, the statement "see above" may, at the manufacturer's option replace manufacturer's recommended cold tire inflation pressure. If no spare tire is provided, the word "none" must replace the manufacturer's recommended cold tire inflation pressure.

(d) Tire size designation, indicated by the headings "size" or "original tire size" or "original size," and "spare tire" or "spare," for the tires installed at the time of the first purchase for purposes other than resale. For full size spare tires, the statement "see above" may, at the manufacturer's option replace the tire size designation. If no spare tire is provided, the word "none" must replace the tire size designation;

(e) On the vehicle placard, "Tire and Loading Information and, on the tire inflation pressure label, "Tire Information";

(f) "See Owner's Manual for Additional Information";

(g) For a vehicle equipped with a non-pneumatic spare tire assembly, the tire identification code with which that assembly is labeled pursuant to the requirements of S4.3(a) of 571.129, New Non-Pneumatic Tires for Passenger Cars;

(h) At the manufacturer's option, identifying information provided in any alphanumeric and or barcode form, located vertically, along the right edge or the left edge of the placard or the label, or horizontally, along the bottom edge of the placard or the label; and

(i) At the manufacturer's option, the load range identification symbol, load index, and speed rating, located immediately to the right of the tire size designation listed in accordance with S4.3(d) above.
