
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.110 Tire selection and rims and motor home/recreation vehicle trailer load carrying capacity information for motor vehicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) or less.
####### Requirements for trailers.

S4.3.5Each trailer, except for an incomplete vehicle, must show the information specified in S4.3 (c) through (g), and may show the information specified in S4.3 (h) and (i), on a placard permanently affixed proximate to the certification label specified in 49 CFR part 567. Additionally, each trailer must on its placard contain a cargo capacity statement expressed as "The weight of cargo should never exceed XXX kilograms or XXX pounds" in the same location on the placard specified for the "vehicle capacity weight" statement required by this standard. At the manufacturer's option, the information specified in S4.3 (c), (d), (h) and (i) may be shown, alternatively, on a tire inflation pressure label, and conform in color and format, not including the border surrounding the entire label, as specified in the example set forth in Figure 2 in this standard. The label shall be permanently affixed and proximate to the placard required by this paragraph. The information specified in S4.3 (e) shall be shown on both the vehicle placard and on the tire inflation pressure label (if such a label is affixed to provide the information specified in S4.3 (c), (d), (h) and (i)) in the format and color scheme set forth in Figures 1 and 2. If the vehicle is a recreation vehicle trailer and is equipped with a propane supply, the weight of full propane tanks must be included in the vehicle's unloaded vehicle weight. If the vehicle is a recreation vehicle trailer and is equipped with an on-board potable water supply, the weight of such on-board water must be treated as cargo.
