
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.110 Tire selection and rims and motor home/recreation vehicle trailer load carrying capacity information for motor vehicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) or less.
####### Rim markings for vehicles other than passenger cars.

S4.4.2.Each rim or, at the option of the manufacturer in the case of a single-piece wheel, each wheel disc shall be marked with the information listed in S4.4.2 (a) through (e), in lettering not less than 3 millimeters in height, impressed to a depth or, at the option of the manufacturer, embossed to a height of not less than 0.125 millimeters. The information listed in S4.4.2 (a) through (c) shall appear on the outward side. In the case of rims of multi piece construction, the information listed in S4.4.2 (a) through (e) shall appear on the rim base and the information listed in S4.4.2 (b) and (d) shall also appear on each other part of the rim.

(a) A designation that indicates the source of the rim's published nominal dimensions, as follows:

(1) "T" indicates The Tire and Rim Association.

(2) "E" indicates The European Tyre and Rim Technical Organization.

(3) "J" indicates Japan Automobile Tire Manufacturers" Association, Inc.

(4) "L" indicates ABPA (Brazil), a.k.a. Associacao Latino Americana De Pneus E Aros.

(5) "F" indicates Tire and Rim Engineering Data Committee of South Africa (Tredco).

(6) "S" indicates Scandinavian Tire and Rim Organization (STRO).

(7) "A" indicates The Tyre and Rim Association of Australia.

(8) "I" indicates Indian Tyre Technical Advisory Committee (ITTAC).

(9) "R" indicates Argentine Institute of Rationalization of Materials, a.k.a. Instituto Argentino de Racionalizaci&#xF3;n de Materiales, (ARAM).

(10) "N" indicates an independent listing pursuant to S4.1 of ยง 571.139 or S5.1(a) of ยง 571.119.

(b) The rim size designation, and in case of multipiece rims, the rim type designation. For example: 20 x 5.50, or 20 x 5.5.

(c) The symbol DOT, constituting a certification by the manufacturer of the rim that the rim complies with all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards.

(d) A designation that identifies the manufacturer of the rim by name, trademark, or symbol.

(e) The month, day and year or the month and year of manufacture, expressed either numerically or by use of a symbol, at the option of the manufacturer. For example: "September 4, 2001" may be expressed numerically as: "90401", "904, 01" or "01, 904"; "September 2001" may be expressed as: "901", "9, 01" or "01, 9".

(1) Any manufacturer that elects to express the date of manufacture by means of a symbol shall notify NHTSA in writing of the full names and addresses of all manufacturers and brand name owners utilizing that symbol and the name and address of the trademark owner of that symbol, if any. The notification shall describe in narrative form and in detail how the month, day, and year or the month and year are depicted by the symbol. Such description shall include an actual size graphic depiction of the symbol, showing and/or explaining the interrelationship of the component parts of the symbol as they will appear on the rim or single piece wheel disc, including dimensional specifications, and where the symbol will be located on the rim or single piece wheel disc. The notification shall be received by NHTSA not less than 60 calendar days before the first use of the symbol. The notification shall be mailed to National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, West Building, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20590. All information provided to NHTSA under this paragraph will be placed in the public docket.

(2) Each manufacturer of wheels shall provide an explanation of its date of manufacture symbol to any person upon request.
