
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.110 Tire selection and rims and motor home/recreation vehicle trailer load carrying capacity information for motor vehicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) or less.
####### Wheel Center Member Requirements.

S8.2Each wheel center member that is part of a separable non-pneumatic spare tire assembly shall be constructed to the dimensions of a wheel center member that is listed pursuant to S4.4 of ยง 571.129 for use with the non-pneumatic tire, designated by its non-pneumatic tire identification code, with which the vehicle is equipped.

S9. Each motor home and recreation vehicle (RV) trailer must meet the applicable requirements in S9.

S9.1 On motor homes, the sum of the gross axle weight ratings (GAWR) of all axles on the vehicle must not be less than the gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR).

S9.2 On RV trailers, the sum of the GAWRs of all axles on the vehicle plus the vehicle manufacturer's recommended tongue weight must not be less than the GVWR. If tongue weight is specified as a range, the minimum value must be used.

S9.3 Each motor home and RV trailer single stage or final stage manufacturer must affix either a motor home occupant and cargo carrying capacity (OCCC) label (Figure 3) or a RV trailer cargo carrying capacity (CCC) label (Figure 4) to its vehicles that meets the following criteria:

S9.3.1 The RV load carrying capacity labels (Figures 3 and 4) and the RV supplemental labels (Figures 5 and 6) required by S9.3.3(b) must be legible, visible, moisture resistant, presented in the English language, have a minimum print size of 2.4 millimeters (3/32 inches) high and be printed in black print on a yellow background.

S9.3.2 The weight value for load carrying capacity on the RV load carrying capacity labels (Figures 3 and 4) must be displayed to the nearest kilogram with conversion to the nearest pound and must be such that the vehicle does not exceed its GVWR when loaded with the stated load carrying capacity. The UVW and the GVWR used to determine the RV's load carrying capacity must reflect the weights and design of the motor home or RV trailer as configured for delivery to the dealer/service facility. If applicable, the weight of full propane tanks must be included in the RV's UVW and the weight of on-board potable water must be treated as cargo.

S9.3.3 An RV load carrying capacity label (Figures 3 or 4) must be:

(a) Permanently affixed and must be visibly located on the interior of the forward-most exterior passenger door on the right side of the vehicle or; at the option of the manufacturer,

(b) A temporary version of the RV load carrying capacity label (Figures 3 or 4) must be visibly located on the interior of the forward-most exterior passenger door on the right side of the vehicle. A permanent motor home or RV trailer supplemental label (Figures 5 or 6) must be permanently affixed within 25 millimeters of the placard specified in S4.3 for motor homes and S4.3.5 for RV trailers.

S9.3.4 Permanent and temporary motor home OCCC labels must contain the following information in accordance with Figure 3:

(a) The statement: "MOTOR HOME OCCUPANT AND CARGO CARRYING CAPACITY" in block letters.

(b) The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN).

(c) The statement "THE COMBINED WEIGHT OF OCCUPANTS AND CARGO SHOULD NEVER EXCEED: XXX kg or XXX lbs" in block letters with appropriate values included.

(d) The statement "Safety belt equipped seating capacity: XXX" with the appropriate value included. This is the total number of safety belt equipped seating positions.

(e) The statement "CAUTION: A full load of water equals XXX kg or XXX lbs of cargo @ 1 kg/L (8.3 lb/gal) and the tongue weight of a towed trailer counts as cargo" with appropriate values included.

S9.3.5 Permanent and temporary RV trailer CCC labels must contain the following information in accordance with Figure 4:

(a) The statement: "RECREATION VEHICLE TRAILER CARGO CARRYING CAPACITY" in block letters.

(b) The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN).

(c) The statement "THE WEIGHT OF CARGO SHOULD NEVER EXCEED: XXX kg or XXX lbs" in block letters with appropriate values included.

(d) The statement "CAUTION: A full load of water equals XXX kg or XXX lbs of cargo @ 1 kg/L (8.3 lb/gal)" with appropriate values included.

S9.3.6 For RVs, the vehicle capacity weight values and the seating capacity values (motor homes only) on the placard required by S4.3 or S4.3.5 must agree with the load carrying capacity weight values and the safety belt equipped seating capacity (motor homes only) on the RV load carrying capacity labels (Figures 3 and 4).

S9.3.7 The permanent motor home supplemental label must contain the following information in accordance with Figure 5:

(a) The statement "CAUTION: A full load of water equals XXX kg or XXX lbs of cargo @ 1 kg/L (8.3 lb/gal) and the tongue weight of a towed trailer counts as cargo" with appropriate values included.

S9.3.8 The permanent RV trailer supplemental label must contain the following information in accordance with Figure 6:

(a) The statement "CAUTION: A full load of water equals XXX kg or XXX lbs of cargo @ 1 kg/L (8.3 lb/gal)" with appropriate values included.
