
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.111 Standard No. 111; Rear visibility.
####### School bus mirror test procedures.

S13.The requirements of S9.1 through S9.4 shall be met when the vehicle is tested in accordance with the following conditions.

S13.1 The cylinders shall be a color which provides a high contrast with the surface on which the bus is parked.

S13.2 The cylinders are 0.3048 m high and 0.3048 m in diameter, except for cylinder P which is 0.9144 m high and 0.3048 m in diameter.

S13.3 Place cylinders at locations as specified in S13.3(a) through S13.3(g) and illustrated in Figure 2. Measure the distances shown in Figure 2 from a cylinder to another object from the center of the cylinder as viewed from above.

(a) Place cylinders G, H, and I so that they are tangent to a transverse vertical plane tangent to the forward-most surface of the bus's front bumper. Place cylinders D, E, F so that their centers are located in a transverse vertical plane that is 1.8288 meters (6 feet) forward of a transverse vertical plane passing through the centers of cylinders G, H, and I. Place cylinders A, B, and C so that their centers are located in a transverse vertical plane that is 3.6576 meters (12 feet) forward of the transverse vertical plane passing through the centers of cylinders G, H, and I.

(b) Place cylinders B, E, and H so that their centers are in a longitudinal vertical plane that passes through the bus's longitudinal centerline.

(c) Place cylinders A, D, and G so that their centers are in a longitudinal vertical plane that is tangent to the most outboard edge of the left side of the bus's front bumper.

(d) Place cylinders C, F, and I so that their centers are in a longitudinal vertical plane that is tangent to the most outboard edge of the right side of the bus's front bumper.

(e) Place cylinder J so that its center is in a longitudinal vertical plane 0.3048 meters (1 foot) to the left of the longitudinal vertical plane passing through the centers of cylinders A, D, and G, and is in the transverse vertical plane that passes through the centerline of the bus's front axle.

(f) Place cylinder K so that its center is in a longitudinal vertical plane 0.3048 meters (1 foot) to the right of the longitudinal vertical plane passing through the centers of cylinders C, F, and I, and is in the transverse vertical plane that passes through the centerline of the bus's front axle.

(g) Place cylinders L, M, N, O, and P so that their centers are in the transverse vertical plane that passes through the centerline of the bus's rear axle. Place cylinder L so that its center is in a longitudinal vertical plane that is 1.8288 meters (6 feet) to the left of the longitudinal vertical plane tangent to the bus's most outboard left surface (excluding the mirror system). Place cylinder M so that its center is in a longitudinal vertical plane that is 0.3048 meters (1 foot) to the left of the longitudinal vertical plane tangent to the left side of the bus. Place cylinder N so that its center is in a longitudinal vertical plane that is 0.3048 meters (1 foot) to the right of the longitudinal vertical plane tangent to the right side of the bus. Place cylinder O so that its center is in a longitudinal vertical plane that is 1.8288 meters (6 feet) to the right of the longitudinal vertical plane tangent to the right side of the bus. Place cylinder P so that its center is in a longitudinal vertical plane that is 3.6576 meters (12 feet) to the right of the longitudinal vertical plane tangent to the right side of the bus.

S13.4 The driver's eye location is the eye location of a 25th percentile adult female, when seated in the driver's seat as follows:

(a) The center point of the driver's eye location is the point located 68.58 centimeters (27 inches) vertically above the intersection of the seat cushion and the seat back at the longitudinal centerline of the seat.

(b) Adjust the driver's seat to the midway point between the forward-most and rear-most positions, and if separately adjustable in the vertical direction, adjust to the lowest position. If an adjustment position does not exist at the midway point, use the closest adjustment position to the rear of the midpoint. If a seat back is adjustable, adjust the seat back angle to the manufacturer's nominal design riding position in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.

S13.5 Adjustable mirrors are adjusted before the test in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations. Such mirrors are not moved or readjusted at any time during the test.

13.6 Place a 35 mm or larger format camera, or video camera, so that its image plane is located at the center point of the driver's eye location or at any single point within a semicircular area established by a 15.24 centimeter (6 inch) radius parallel to and forward of the center point (see figure 3). With the camera at any single location on or within that semicircle look through the camera and the windows of the bus and determine whether the entire top surface of each cylinder is directly visible.

S13.7 For each cylinder whose entire top surface is determined under paragraph 13.4 of this section not to be directly visible at the driver's eye location,

(a) Place a comparison chart (see figure 4) above the mirror that provides the fullest view of the cylinder in situations where a cylinder is partially visible through more than one mirror.

The width of the bars in Figure 4 indicating three minutes of arc and nine minutes of arc are derived from the following formula:

(b) Photograph each cylinder through the mirror(s) that provides a view of the cylinder. Photograph each cylinder with the camera located so that the view through its film or image plane is located at any single location within the semicircle established under 13.4, [POINT A,B,C, OR D] ensuring that the image of the mirror and comparison chart fill the camera's view finder to the extent possible.

13.8 Make all observations and take all photographs with the service/entry door in the closed position and the stop signal arm(s) in the fully retracted position.
