
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.111 Standard No. 111; Rear visibility.
####### Requirements for School Buses.

S9.When a school bus is tested in accordance with the procedures of S13, it shall meet the requirements of S9.1 through S9.4.

S9.1 Outside Rearview Mirrors. Each school bus shall have two outside rearview mirror systems: System A and System B.

S9.2. System A shall be located with stable supports so that the portion of the system on the bus's left side, and the portion on its right side, each:

(a) Includes at least one mirror of unit magnification with not less than 323 cmof reflective surface; and

(b) Includes one or more mirrors which together provide, at the driver's eye location, a view of:

(1) For the mirror system on the right side of the bus, the entire top surface of cylinder N in Figure 2, and that area of the ground which extends rearward from cylinder N to a point not less than 61 meters from the mirror surface.

(2) For the mirror system on the left side of the bus, the entire top surface of cylinder M in Figure 2, and that area of the ground which extends rearward from cylinder M to a point not less than 61 meters from the mirror surface.

S9.3(a) For each of the cylinders A through P whose entire top surface is not directly visible from the driver's eye location, System B shall provide, at that location:

(1) A view of the entire top surface of that cylinder.

(2) A view of the ground that overlaps with the view of the ground provided by System A.

(b) Each mirror installed in compliance with S9.3(a) shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Each mirror shall have a projected area of at least 258 cm, as measured on a plane at a right angle to the mirror's axis.

(2) Each mirror shall be located such that the distance from the center point of the eye location of a 25th percentile adult female seated in the driver's seat to the center of the mirror shall be at least 95 cm.

(3) Each mirror shall have no discontinuities in the slope of the surface of the mirror.

(4) Each mirror shall be installed with a stable support.

(c) Each school bus which has a mirror installed in compliance with S9.3(a) that has an average radius of curvature of less than 889 mm, as determined under S12, shall have a label visible to the seated driver. The label shall be printed in a type face and color that are clear and conspicuous. The label shall state the following:

S9.4(a) Each image required by S9.3(a)(1) to be visible at the driver's eye location shall be separated from the edge of the effective mirror surface of the mirror providing that image by a distance of not less than 3 minutes of arc.

(b) The image required by S9.3(a)(1) of cylinder P shall meet the following requirements:

(1) The angular size of the shortest dimension of that cylinder's image shall be not less than 3 minutes of arc; and

(2) The angular size of the longest dimension of that cylinder's image shall be not less than 9 minutes of arc.
