
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.111 Standard No. 111; Rear visibility.
####### Determination of radius of curvature.

S12.

S12.1 To determine the average radius of curvature of a convex mirror, use a 3-point linear spherometer, which meets the requirements of S12.2, at the 10 test positions shown in Figure 1 and record the readings for each position.

S12.2 The 3-point linear spherometer has two outer fixed legs 38 mm apart and one inner movable leg at the midpoint. The spherometer has a dial indicator with a scale that can be read accurately to .0025 mm, with the zero reading being a flat surface.

S12.3 The 10 test positions on the image display consist of two positions at right angles to each other at each of five locations as shown in Figure 1. The locations are at the center of the mirror, at the left and right ends of a horizontal line that bisects the mirror and at the top and bottom ends of a vertical line that bisects the mirror. None of the readings are within a 6.4 mm border on the edge of the image display.

S12.4 At each position, the spherometer is held perpendicular to the convex mirror-surface and a record is made of the reading on the dial indicator to the nearest .0025 mm.

S12.5 Convert the dial reading data for each of the 10 test positions to radius of curvature calculations using Table I. Consider the change as linear for dial readings that fall between two numbers in Table I.

S12.6 Calculate the average radius of curvature by adding all 10 radius of curvature calculations and dividing by ten.

S12.7 Determine the numerical difference between the average radius of curvature and each of the 10 individual radius of curvature calculations determined in S12.5.

S12.8 Calculate the greatest percentage deviation by dividing the greatest numerical difference determined in S12.7 by the average radius of curvature and multiply by 100.
