
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.114 Standard No. 114; Theft protection and rollaway prevention.
####### Theft protection.

S5.1

S5.1.1 Each vehicle must have a starting system which, whenever the key is removed from the starting system prevents:

(a) The normal activation of the vehicle's engine or motor; and

(b) Either steering, or forward self-mobility, of the vehicle, or both.

S5.1.2 For each vehicle type manufactured by a manufacturer, the manufacturer must provide at least 1,000 unique key combinations, or a number equal to the total number of the vehicles of that type manufactured by the manufacturer, whichever is less. The same combinations may be used for more than one vehicle type.

S5.1.3 Except as specified below, an audible warning to the vehicle operator must be activated whenever the key is in the starting system and the door located closest to the driver's designated seating position is opened. An audible warning to the vehicle operator need not activate:

(a) After the key has been inserted into the starting system, and before the driver takes further action; or

(b) If the key is in the starting system in a manner or position that allows the engine or motor to be started or to continue operating; or

(c) For mechanical keys and starting systems, after the key has been withdrawn to a position from which it may not be turned.

S5.1.4 If a vehicle is equipped with a transmission with a "park" position, the means for deactivating the vehicle's engine or motor must not activate any device installed pursuant to S5.1.1(b), unless the transmission is locked in the "park" position.

S5.2 Rollaway prevention in vehicles equipped with transmissions with a "park" position.

S5.2.1 Except as specified in S5.2.3, the starting system required by S5.1 must prevent key removal when tested according to the procedures in S6, unless the transmission or gear selection control is locked in "park" or becomes locked in "park" as a direct result of key removal.

S5.2.2 Except as specified in S5.2.4, the vehicle must be designed such that the transmission or gear selection control cannot move from the "park" position, unless the key is in the starting system.
