
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Certification, marking, and labeling.

S5.2.2

S5.2.2.1 Each manufacturer of a DOT grade brake fluid shall furnish to each packager, distributor, or dealer to whom he delivers brake fluid, the following information:

(a) A serial number identifying the production lot and the date of manufacture of the brake fluid.

(b) The grade (DOT 3, DOT 4, DOT 5) of the brake fluid. If DOT 5 grade brake fluid , it shall be further distinguished as "DOT 5 SILICONE BASE" or "DOT 5.1 NON-SILICONE BASE."

(c) The minimum wet boiling point in Fahrenheit of the brake fluid.

(d) Certification that the brake fluid conforms to ยง 571.116.

S5.2.2.2 Each packager of brake fluid shall furnish the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this S5.2.2.2 by clearly marking it on each brake fluid container or on a label (labels) permanently affixed to the container, in any location except a removable part such as a lid. After being subjected to the operations and conditions specified in S6.14, the information required by this section shall be legible to an observer having corrected visual acuity of 20/40 (Snellen ratio) at a distance of 305 mm, and any label affixed to the container in compliance with this section shall not be removable without its being destroyed or defaced.

(a) Certification that the brake fluid conforms to ยง 571.116.

(b) The name of the packager of the brake fluid, which may be in code form.

(c) The name and complete mailing address of the distributor.

(d) A serial number identifying the packaged lot and date of packaging.

(e) Designation of the contents as "DOT-MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE FLUID" (Fill in DOT 3, DOT 4, DOT 5 SILICONE BASE, or DOT 5.1 NON-SILICONE BASE as applicable).

(f) The minimum wet boiling point in Fahrenheit of the DOT brake fluid in the container.

(g) The following safety warnings in capital and lower case letters as indicated:

(1) FOLLOW VEHICLE MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS WHEN ADDING BRAKE FLUID.

(2) KEEP BRAKE FLUID CLEAN AND DRY. Contamination with dirt, water, petroleum products or other materials may result in brake failure or costly repairs.

(3) STORE BRAKE FLUID ONLY IN ITS ORIGINAL CONTAINER. KEEP CONTAINER CLEAN AND TIGHTLY CLOSED TO PREVENT ABSORPTION OF MOISTURE.
