
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### CAUTION:

(4)DO NOT REFILL CONTAINER, AND DO NOT USE FOR OTHER LIQUIDS. (Not required for containers with a capacity in excess of 19 L.)

S5.2.2.3 Each packager of hydraulic system mineral oil shall furnish the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this S5.2.2.3 by clearly marking it on each brake fluid container or on a label (labels) permanently affixed to the container, in any location except a removable part such as a lid. After being subjected to the operations and conditions specified in S6.14, the information required by this section shall be legible to an observer having corrected visual acuity of 20/40 (Snellen ratio) at a distance of 305 mm and any label affixed to the container in compliance with this section shall not be removable without its being destroyed or defaced.

(a) The name of the packager of the hydraulic system mineral oil, which may be in code form.

(b) The name and complete mailing address of the distributor.

(c) A serial number identifying the packaged lot and date of packaging.

(d) Designation of the contents as "HYDRAULIC SYSTEM MINERAL OIL" in capital letters at least 3 mm high.

(e) The following safety warnings in capital and lower case letters as indicated:

(1) FOLLOW VEHICLE MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS WHEN ADDING HYDRAULIC SYSTEM MINERAL OIL.

(2) Hydraulic System Mineral Oil is NOT COMPATIBLE with the rubber components of brake systems designed for use with DOT brake fluids.

(3) KEEP HYDRAULIC SYSTEM MINERAL OIL CLEAN. Contamination with dust or other materials may result in brake failure or costly repair.
