
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Preparation of apparatus.

S6.1.3(a) Thoroughly clean and dry all glassware.

(b) Insert thermometer through the side tube until the tip of the bulb is 6.5 mm. (inch) from the bottom center of the flask. Seal with a short piece of natural rubber, EPDM, SBR, or butyl tubing.

(c) Place 60 +/-1 ml. of brake fluid and the silicon carbide grains into the flask.

(d) Attach the flask to the condenser. When using a heating mantle, place the mantle under the flask and support it with a ring-clamp and laboratory-type stand, holding the entire assembly in place by a clamp. When using a rheostat-controlled heater, center a standard porcelain or hard asbestos refractory, having a diameter opening 32 to 38 mm., over the heating element and mount the flask so that direct heat is applied only through the opening in the refractory. Place the assembly in an area free from drafts or other types of sudden temperature changes. Connect the cooling water inlet and outlet tubes to the condenser. Turn on the cooling water. The water supply temperature shall not exceed 28 &#xB0;C. (82.4 &#xB0;F.) and the temperature rise through the condenser shall not exceed 2 &#xB0;C. (3.6 &#xB0;F.).
