
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Procedure.

S6.2.5Pour 350 +/-5 ml. of brake fluid into an open corrosion test jar. Prepare in the same manner a duplicate test fluid sample and two duplicate specimens of the SAE TEGME referee material (350 +/-5 ml. of TEGME in each jar). The water content of the SAE TEGME fluid is adjusted to 0.50 +/-0.05 percent by weight at the start of the test in accordance with S7.2. Place one sample each of the test brake fluid and the prepared TEGME sample into the same desiccator. Repeat for the second sample of test brake fluid and TEGME in a second desiccator. Place the desiccators in the 50 &#xB0;C. (122 &#xB0;F.) controlled oven and replace desiccator covers. At intervals, during oven humidification, remove the rubber stoppers in the tops of desiccators. Using a long needled hypodermic syringe, take a sample of not more than 2 ml. from each TEGME sample and determine its water content. Remove no more than 10 ml. of fluid from each SAE TEGME sample during the humidification procedure. When the water content of the SAE fluid reaches 3.70 +/-0.05 percent by weight (average of the duplicates). remove the two test fluid specimens from their desiccators and promptly cap each jar tightly. Allow the sealed jars to cool for 60 to 90 minutes at 23&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. (73.4&#xB0; +/-9 &#xB0;F.). Measure the water contents of the test fluid specimens in accordance with S7.2 and determine their ERBP's in accordance with S6.1. If the two ERBPs agree within 4 &#xB0;C. (8 &#xB0;F.), average them to determine the wet ERBP; otherwise repeat and average the four individual ERBPs as the wet ERBP of the brake fluid.
