
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Procedure.

S6.3.4(a) Set and maintain the bath at the appropriate test temperature (see S5.1.3) within the limits specified in S6.3.2(c). Apply the necessary corrections, if any, to all thermometer readings.

(b) Select a clean, dry, calibrated viscometer giving a flow time not less than its specified minimum, or 200 seconds, whichever is the greater.

(c) Charge the viscometer in the manner used when the instrument was calibrated. Do not filter or dry the brake fluid, but protect it from contamination by dirt and moisture during filling and measurements.

(1) Charge the suspended level viscometers by tilting about 30&#xB0; from the vertical and pouring sufficient brake fluid through the fill tube into the lower reservoir so that when the viscometer is returned to vertical position the meniscus is between the fill marks. For measurements below 0 &#xB0;C. (32 &#xB0;F.), before placing the filled viscometer into the constant temperature bath, draw the sample into the working capillary and timing bulb and insert small rubber stoppers to suspend the fluid in this position, to prevent accumulation of water condensate on the walls of the critical portions of the viscometer. Alternatively, fit loosely packed drying tubes into the open ends of the viscometer to prevent water condensation, but do not restrict the flow of the sample under test by the pressures created in the instrument.

(2) If a Cannon-Fenske Routine viscometer is used, charge by inverting and immersing the smaller arm into the brake fluid and applying vacuum to the larger arm. Fill the tube to the upper timing mark, and return the viscometer to an upright position.

(d) Mount the viscometer in the bath in a true vertical position (see S6.3.2(b)).

(e) The viscometer shall remain in the bath until it reaches the test temperature.

(f) At temperatures below 0 &#xB0;C. (32 &#xB0;F.) conduct an untimed preliminary run by allowing the brake fluid to drain through the capillary into the lower reservoir after the test temperature has been established.

(g) Adjust the head level of the brake fluid to a position in the capillary arm about 5 mm. above the first timing mark.

(h) With brake fluid flowing freely measure to within 0.2 second the time required for the meniscus to pass from the first timing mark to the second. If this flow time is less than the minimum specified for the viscometer, or 200 seconds, whichever is greater, repeat using a viscometer with a capillary of smaller diameter.

(i) Repeat S6.3.4 (g) and (h). If the two timed runs do not agree within 0.2 percent, reject and repeat using a fresh sample of brake fluid.
