
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Standardization of the pH assembly and testing of the electrodes.

S6.4.5(a) Immediately before use, standardize the pH assembly with a standard buffer solution. Then use a second standard buffer solution to check the linearity of the response of the electrodes at different pH values, and to detect a faulty glass electrode or incorrect temperature compensation. The two buffer solutions bracket the anticipated pH value of the test brake fluid.

(b) Allow instrument to warm up, and adjust according to the manufacturer's instructions. Immerse the tips of the electrodes in a standard buffer solution and allow the temperature of the buffer solution and the electrodes to equalize. Set the temperature knob at the temperature of the buffer solution. Adjust the standardization or asymmetry potential control until the meter registers a scale reading, in pH units, equal to the known pH of the standardizing buffer solution.

(c) Rinse the electrodes with distilled water and remove excess water from the tips. Immerse the electrodes in a second standard buffer solution. The reading of the meter shall agree with the known pH of the second standard buffer solution within +/-0.05 unit without changing the setting of the standardization of asymmetry potential control.

(d) A faulty electrode is indicated by failure to obtain a correct value for the pH of the second standard buffer solution after the meter has been standardized with the first.
