
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Standard buffer solutions.

(b)Prepare buffer solutions for calibrating the pH meter and electrode pair from salts sold specifically for use, either singly or in combination, as pH standards. Dry salts for 1 hour at 110 &#xB0;C. (230 &#xB0;F.) before use except for borax which shall be used as the decahydrate. Store solutions with pH less than 9.5 in bottles of chemically resistant glass or polyethylene. Store the alkaline phosphate solution in a glass bottle coated inside with paraffin. Do not use a standard with an age exceeding three months.

(1) Potassium hydrogen phthalate buffer solution (0.05 M, pH = 4.01 at 25 &#xB0;C. (77 &#xB0;F.)). Dissolve 10.21 g. of potassium hydrogen phthalate (KHCHO) in distilled water. Dilute to 1 liter.

(2) Neutral phosphate buffer solution (0.025 M with respect to each phosphate salt, pH = 6.86 at 25 &#xB0;C. (77 &#xB0;F.)). Dissolve 3.40 g. of potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KHPO) and 3.55 g. of anhydrous disodium hydrogen phosphate (NaHPO) in distilled water.

(3) Borax buffer solution (0.01 M, pH = 9.18 at 25 &#xB0;C. (77 &#xB0;F.)). Dissolve 3.81 g. of disodium tetraborate decahydrate (NaBO&#xB0;10HO) in distilled water, and dilute to 1 liter. Stopper the bottle except when actually in use.

(4) Alkaline phosphate buffer solution (0.01 M trisodium phosphate, pH = 11.72 at 25 &#xB0;C. (77 &#xB0;F.)). Dissolve 1.42 g. of anhydrous disodium hydrogen phosphate (NaHPO) in 100 ml. of a 0.1 M carbonate-free solution of sodium hydroxide. Dilute to 1 liter with distilled water.

(5) Potassium chloride electrolyte. Prepare a saturated solution of potassium chloride (KCl) in distilled water.
