
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Procedure.

S6.6.5Rinse the cups in ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 SBBF fluids) for not more than 30 seconds and wipe dry with a clean lint-free cloth. Place one cup with lip edge facing up, in each jar. Insert a metal strip assembly inside each cup with the fastened end down and the free end extending upward. (See Figure 5.) When testing brake fluids, except DOT 5 SBBF, mix 760 ml. of brake fluid with 40 ml. of distilled water. When testing DOT 5 SBBF's, humidify 800 ml. of brake fluid in accordance with S6.2, eliminating determination of the ERBP. Using this water-wet mixture, cover each strip assembly to a minimum depth of 10 mm. above the tops of the strips. Tighten the lids and place the jars for 120 +/-2 hours in an oven maintained at 100&#xB0; +/-2 &#xB0;C. (212&#xB0; +/-3.6 &#xB0;F.). Allow the jars to cool at 23&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. (73.4&#xB0; +/-9 &#xB0;F.) for 60 to 90 minutes. Immediately remove the strips from the jars using forceps, agitating the strip assembly in the fluid to remove loose adhering sediment. Examine the test strips and jars for adhering crystalline deposits. Disassemble the metal strips, and remove adhering fluid by flushing with water; clean each strip by wiping with a clean cloth wetted with ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 fluids). Examine the strips for evidence of corrosion and pitting. Disregard staining or discoloration. Place the strips in a desiccator containing silica gel or other suitable desiccant, maintained at 23&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. (73.4&#xB0; +/-9 &#xB0;F.), for at least 1 hour. Weigh each strip to the nearest 0.1 mg. Determine the change in weight of each metal strip. Average the results for the two strips of each type of metal. Immediately following the cooling period, remove the cups from the jars with forceps. Remove loose adhering sediment by agitation of the cups in the mixture. Rinse the cups in ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 fluids) and air-dry. Examine the cups for evidence of sloughing, blisters, and other forms of disintegration. Measure the base diameter and hardness of each cup within 15 minutes after removal from the mixture. Examine the mixture for gelling. Agitate the mixture to suspend and uniformly disperse sediment. From each jar, transfer a 100 ml. portion of the mixture to an ASTM cone-shaped centrifuge tube. Determine the percent sediment after centrifuging as described in S7.5. Measure the pH value of the corrosion text fluid according to S6.4.6. Measure the pH value of the test mixture according to S6.4.6.
