
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Corrosion test strips.

(a)Except for the tinned iron strips, abrade corrosion test strips on all surface areas with 320A silicon carbide paper wet with ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 SBBF fluids) until all surface scratches, cuts and pits visible to an observer having corrected visual acuity of 20/40 (Snellen ratio) at a distance of 300 mm (11.8 inches) are removed. Use a new piece of paper for each different type of metal. Except for the tinned iron strips, further abrade the test strips on all surface areas with 1200 silicon carbide paper wet with ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 SBBF fluids), again using a new piece of paper for each different type of metal. Handle the strips with forceps after polishing. Weigh and record the weight of each strip to the nearest 0.1 mg. Assemble the strips on a clean dry machine screw, with matching plain nut, in the order of tinned iron, steel, aluminum, cast iron, brass, and copper. Bend the strips, other than the cast iron, so that there is a separation of 3 +/-mm. (+/-inch) between adjacent strips for a distance of about 5 cm. (2 inches) from the free end of the strips. (See Figure 4.) Tighten the screw on each test strip assembly so that the strips are in electrolytic contact, and can be lifted by either of the outer strips (tinned iron or copper) without any of the strips moving relative to the others when held horizontally. Immerse the strip assemblies in 90 percent ethyl alcohol. Dry with dried filtered compressed air, then desiccate at least 1 hour before use.
