
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Procedure.

S6.13.5Operate the system for 16,000 +/-1,000 cycles at 23&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. (73.4&#xB0; +/-9 &#xB0;F.). Repair any leakage, readjust the brake shoe clearances, and add fluid to the master cylinder standpipe to bring to the level originally recorded, if necessary. Start the test again and raise the temperature of the cabinet within 6 +/-2 hours to 120&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. (248&#xB0; +/-9 &#xB0;F.). During the test observe operation of wheel cylinders for improper functioning and record the amount of fluid required to replenish any loss, at intervals of 24,000 strokes. Stop the test at the end of 85,000 total recorded strokes. These totals shall include the number of strokes during operation at 23&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. (73.4&#xB0; +/-9 &#xB0;F.) and the number of strokes required to bring the system to the operating temperature. Allow equipment to cool to room temperature. Examine the wheel cylinders for leakage. Stroke the assembly an additional 100 strokes, examine wheel cylinders for leakage and record volume loss of fluid. Within 16 hours after stopping the test, remove the master and wheel cylinders from the system, retaining the fluid in the cylinders by immediately capping or plugging the ports. Disassemble the cylinders, collecting the fluid from the master cylinder and wheel cylinders in a glass jar. When collecting the stroked fluid, remove all residue which has deposited on rubber and metal internal parts by rinsing and agitating such parts in the stroked fluid and using a soft brush to assure that all loose adhering sediment is collected. Clean SBR cups in ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 fluids) and dry. Inspect the cups for stickiness, scuffing, blistering, cracking, chipping, and change in shape from original appearance. Within 1 hour after disassembly, measure the lip and base diameters of each cylinder cup by the procedures specified in S6.13.4 (a) and (b) with the exception that lip or base diameters of cups may now differ by more than 0.08 mm. (0.003 inch). Determine the hardness of each cup according to S7.4. Note any sludge or gel present in the test fluid. Within 1 hour after draining the cylinders, agitate the fluid in a glass jar to suspend and uniformly disperse sediment and transfer a 100 ml. portion of this fluid to a centrifuge tube and determine percent sediment as described in S7.5. Allow the tube and fluid to stand for 24 hours, recentrifuge and record any additional sediment recovered. Inspect cylinder parts, note any gumming or any pitting on pistons and cylinder walls. Disregard staining or discoloration. Rub any deposits adhering to cylinder walls with a clean soft cloth wetted with ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 fluids) to determine abrasiveness and removability. Clean cylinder parts in ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 fluids) and dry. Measure and record diameters of pistons and cylinders according to S6.13.4(a) and (b). Repeat the test if mechanical failure occurs that may affect the evaluation of the brake fluid.
