
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Master cylinder assembly.

(b)Use an unused master cylinder and unused standard SBR primary and secondary MC cups which have been inspected, measured and cleaned in the manner specified in S6.13.4(a), omitting hardness of the secondary MC cup. However, prior to determining the lip and base diameters of the secondary cup, dip the cup in test brake fluid, assemble on the MC piston, and maintain the assembly in a vertical position at 23&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. (73.4&#xB0; +/-9 &#xB0;F.) for at least 12 hours. Inspect the relief and supply ports of the master cylinder; discard the cylinder if ports have burrs or wire edges. Measure the internal diameter of the cylinder at two locations (approximately midway between the relief and supply ports and approximately 19 mm. (0.75 inch) beyond the relief port toward the bottom or discharge end of the bore), taking measurements at each location on the vertical and horizontal centerline of the bore. Discard the cylinder if any reading exceeds the maximum or minimum limits of 28.65 to 28.57 mm. (1.128 to 1.125 inch). Measure the outside diameter of each end of the master cylinder piston at two points approximately 90&#xB0; apart. Discard the piston if any of these four readings exceed the maximum or minimum limits of 28.55 to 28.52 mm. (1.124 to 1.123 inch). Dip the rubber and metal parts of the master cylinder, except the housing and push rod-boot assembly, in the brake fluid and install in accordance with manufacturer's instructions. Manually stroke the master cylinder to insure that it operates easily. Install the master cylinder in the simulated brake system.
