
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.116 Standard No. 116; Motor vehicle brake fluids.
####### Wheel cylinder assemblies.

(a)Use unused wheel cylinder assemblies. Disassemble cylinders and discard cups. Clean all metal parts with ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 fluids). Inspect the working surfaces of all metal parts for scoring, galling, or pitting and cylinder bore roughness, and discard all defective parts. Remove any stains on cylinder walls with crocus cloth and ethanol (isopropanol when testing DOT 5 fluids). If stains cannot be removed, discard the cylinder. Measure the internal diameter of each cylinder at a location approximately 19 mm. (0.75 inch) from each end of the cylinder bore, taking measurements in line with the hydraulic inlet opening and at right angles to this centerline. Discard the cylinder if any of these four readings exceeds the maximum or minimum limits of 28.66 to 28.60 mm. (1.128 to 1.126 inch). Measure the outside diameter of each piston at two points approximately 90&#xB0; apart. Discard any piston if either reading exceeds the maximum or minimum limits of 28.55 to 28.52 mm. (1.124 to 1.123 inch). Select parts to insure that the clearance between each piston and mating cylinder is within 0.08 to 0.13 mm. (0.003 to 0.005 inch). Use unused SBR cups. To remove dirt and debris, rinse the cups in 90 percent ethyl alcohol for not more than 30 seconds and wipe dry with a clean lint-free cloth. Discard any cups showing defects such as cuts, molding flaws, or blisters. Measure the lip and base diameters of all cups with an optical comparator or micrometer to the nearest 0.02 mm. (0.001 inch) along the centerline of the SAE and rubber-type identifications and at right angles to this centerline. Determine base diameter measurements at least 0.4 mm. (0.015 inch) above the bottom edge and parallel to the base of the cup. Discard any cup if the two measured lip or base diameters differ by more than 0.08 mm. (0.003 inch). Average the lip and base diameters of each cup. Determine the hardness of all cups according to S7.4. Dip the rubber and metal parts of wheel cylinders, except housing and rubber boots, in the fluid to be tested and install them in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Manually stroke the cylinders to insure that they operate easily. Install cylinders in the simulated brake system.
