
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.117 Standard No. 117; Retreaded pneumatic tires.
####### Retreaded tires.

S5.1

S5.1.1 Except as specified in S5.1.3, each retreaded tire, when mounted on a test rim of the width specified for the tire's size designation in appendix A of § 571.109 shall comply with the following requirements of § 571.109:

(a) S4.1 (Size and construction).

(b) S4.2.1 (General).

(c) S4.2.2.3 (Tubeless tire resistance to bead unseating).

(d) S4.2.2.4 (Tire strength).

S5.1.2 Except as specified in S5.1.3, each retreaded tire, when mounted on a test rim of the width specified for the tire's size designation in appendix A of § 571.109, shall comply with the requirements of S4.2.2.2 of § 571.109, except that the tire's section width shall not be more than 110 percent of the section width specified, and the tire's size factor shall be at least 97 percent of the size factor specified, in appendix A of § 571.109 for the tire's size designation.

S5.1.3 Each retreaded tire shall be capable of meeting the requirements of S5.1.1 and S5.1.2 when mounted on any rim in accordance with those sections.

S5.1.4 No retreaded tire shall have a size designation, recommended maximum load rating, or maximum permissible inflation pressure that is greater than that originally specified on the casing pursuant to S4.3 of § 571.109, or specified for the casing in Table I.
