
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.118 Standard No. 118; Power-operated window, partition, and roof panel systems.
####### Test procedure for testing power-operated window, partition, or roof panel systems designed to detect the proximity of obstructions using infrared reflectance:

S7.2.

(a) Place the vehicle under incandescent lighting that projects 64,500 lux (6,000 foot candles) onto the infrared sensor. The light is projected onto the infrared sensor by aiming the optical axis of a light source outside the vehicle as perpendicular as possible to the lens of the infrared sensor. The intensity of light is measured perpendicular to the plane of the lens of the infrared sensor, as close as possible to the center of the lens of the infrared sensor.

(b) Place a test rod of the type specified in S8.3 in the window, partition, or roof panel opening, with the window, partition, or roof panel in any position. While keeping the rod stationary, attempt to close the window, partition, or roof panel by operating the actuation device provided in the vehicle for that purpose. Remove the test rod. Fully open the window, partition, or roof panel, and then begin to close it. While the window, partition, or roof panel is closing, move a test rod so that it approaches and ultimately extends through (if necessary) the window, partition, or roof panel opening, or its frame, in any orientation from the interior of the vehicle. For power partitions that have occupant compartment space on both sides of the partition, move the test rod into the partition opening from either side of the partition.

(c) Repeat the steps in S7.2(a) and (b) with other ambient light conditions within the range specified in S5.3.
