
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.118 Standard No. 118; Power-operated window, partition, and roof panel systems.
####### Actuation Devices.

S6Except as provided in paragraph S6(b), actuation devices in the occupant compartments of vehicles used to close power-operated windows, partitions, and roof panels must meet the following requirements:

(a) An actuation device must not cause a window, partition, or roof panel to begin to close from any open position when tested as follows:

(1) Using a stainless steel sphere having a surface finish between 8 and 4 micro inches and a radius of 20 mm +/-0.2 mm, place the surface of the sphere against any portion of the actuation device.

(2) Apply a force not to exceed 135 Newtons (30 pounds) through the geometric center of the sphere. This force may be applied at any angle with respect to the actuation device.

(3) For actuation devices that cannot be contacted by the sphere specified in S6(a)(1) prior to the application of force, apply a force up to the level specified in S6(a)(2) at any angle in an attempt to make contact with the actuation device. The sphere is directionally applied in such a manner that, if unimpeded, it would make contact with the actuation device.

(b) The requirement in S6(a) does not apply to either-

(1) actuation devices that are mounted in a vehicle's roof, headliner, or overhead console that can close power-operated windows, partitions, or roof panels only by continuous rather than momentary switch actuation, or

(2) actuation devices for closing power-operated windows, partitions, or roof panels which comply with paragraph S5.

(c) Any actuation device for closing a power-operated window must operate by pulling away from the surface in the vehicle on which the device is mounted. An actuation device for closing a power-operated window must operate only when pulled vertically up (if mounted on the top of a horizontal surface), or out (if mounted on a vertical surface), or down (if mounted on the underside of an overhead surface), or in a direction perpendicular to the surrounding surface if mounted in a sloped orientation, in order to cause the window to move in the closing direction.
