
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.119 Standard No. 119; New pneumatic tires for motor vehicles with a GVWR of more than 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds), specialty tires, and tires for motorcycles.
####### Tire and rim matching information.

S5.

S5.1 Each manufacturer of tires shall ensure that a listing of the rims that may be used with each tire that he produces is provided to the public. For purposes of this section each rim listing shall include dimensional specifications and a diagram of the rim. However a listing compiled in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section need not include dimensional specifications or a diagram of a rim if the rim's dimensional specifications and diagram are contained in each listing published in accordance with paragraph (b) of this standard. The listing shall be in one of the following forms:

(a) Listed by manufacturer name or brand name in a document furnished to dealers of the manufacturer's tires, to any person upon request, and in duplicate to: Docket Section, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590; or

(b) Contained in publications, current at the date of manufacture of the tire or any later date, of at least one of the following organizations:

S5.2 Information contained in a publication specified in S5.1(b) which lists general categories of tires and rims by size designation, type of construction, and/or intended use, shall be considered to be manufacturer's information pursuant to S5.1 for the listed tires, unless the publication itself or specific information provided according to S5.1(a) indicates otherwise.
