
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.119 Standard No. 119; New pneumatic tires for motor vehicles with a GVWR of more than 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds), specialty tires, and tires for motorcycles.
####### Tire markings.

S6.5Except as specified in this paragraph, each tire shall be marked on each sidewall with the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section. The markings shall be placed between the maximum section width (exclusive of sidewall decorations or curb ribs) and the bead on at least one sidewall, unless the maximum section width of the tire is located in an area which is not more than one-fourth of the distance from the bead to the shoulder of the tire. If the maximum section width falls within that area, the markings shall appear between the bead and a point one-half the distance from the bead to the shoulder of the tire, on at least one sidewall. The markings shall be in letters and numerals not less than 2 mm (0.078 inch) high and raised above or sunk below the tire surface not less that 0.4 mm (0.015 inch), except that the marking depth shall be not less than 0.25mm (0.010 inch) in the case of motorcycle tires. The tire identification and the DOT symbol labeling shall comply with part 574 of this chapter. Markings may appear on only one sidewall and the entire sidewall area may be used in the case of motorcycle tires and recreational, boat, baggage, and special trailer tires.

(a) The symbol DOT, which shall constitute a certification that the tire conforms to applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards. This symbol may be marked on only one sidewall.

(b) The tire identification number required by part 574 of this chapter. This number may be marked on only one sidewall.

(c) The tire size designation as listed in the documents and publications designated in S5.1.

(d) The maximum load rating and corresponding inflation pressure of the tire, shown as follows:

(e) The speed restriction of the tire, if 90 km/h (55 mph) or less, shown as follows:

(f) The actual number of plies and the composition of the ply cord material in the sidewall and, if different, in the tread area;

(g) The words "tubeless" or "tube type" as applicable.

(h) The word "regroovable" if the tire is designed for regrooving.

(i) The word "radial" if a radial tire.

(j) The letter designating the tire load range.
