
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.119 Standard No. 119; New pneumatic tires for motor vehicles with a GVWR of more than 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds), specialty tires, and tires for motorcycles.
####### Strength.

S7.3(a) Mount the tire on a model rim assembly and inflate it to the pressure corresponding to the maximum load, or maximum dual load where there is both a single and dual load marked on the tire. If the tire is tubeless, a tube may be inserted to prevent loss of air during the test in the event of puncture.

(b) After conditioning the tire-rim assembly in accordance with S7.1.2, adjust the tire pressure to that specified in (a).

(c) Force a cylindrical steel plunger, with a hemispherical end and of the diameter specified in Table I for the tire size, perpendicularly into a raised tread element as near as possible to the centerline of the tread, at a rate of 50 mm (2 inches) per minute, until the tire breaks or the plunger is stopped by the rim.

(d) Record the force and the distance of penetration just before the tire breaks, or if it fails to break, just before the plunger is stopped by the rim.

(e) Repeat the plunger application at 72&#xB0; intervals around the circumference of the tire, until five measurements are made. However, in the case of tires of 12 inch rim diameter code or smaller, repeat the plunger application at 120&#xB0; intervals around the circumference of the tire, until three measurements are made.

(f) Compute the breaking energy for each test point by one of the two following formulas:

(1) W = [(F x P)/2] x 10

(2) W = (F x P)/2

(g) Determine the average breaking energy value for the tire by computing the average of the values obtained in accordance with paragraph (f).
