
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 7 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart C - Availability of Reasonably Described Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 7.22 Who administers this subpart?

(a) A Chief FOIA Officer is appointed by the Secretary to oversee DOT's compliance with the Act pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(k). The DOT Chief FOIA Officer is designated at 49 CFR 1.27a as the Career Deputy General Counsel.

(b) Each DOT FOIA Requester Service Center listed in ยง 7.27 is the initial point of contact for providing information about its processing of requests.

(c) One or more Public Liaisons are designated by the Chief FOIA Officer for each DOT FOIA Requester Service Center listed in ยง 7.27. Public Liaisons assist requesters in reducing delays and resolving disputes, as described in 5 U.S.C. 552(k)(6).

(d) Authority to administer this subpart and to issue determinations with respect to initial requests and appeals of initial denials has been delegated as follows:

(1) To the General Counsel for the records of the Office of the Secretary by 49 CFR 1.27.

(2) To the Inspector General for records of the Office of Inspector General by 49 CFR 1.74.

(3) To the Administrator of each DOT Operating Administration for records of that component by 49 CFR 1.81.

(4) Each responsible DOT official may redelegate the authority to issue final determinations of appeals of initial denials to that official's deputy or to not more than one other officer who reports directly to the official and who is located at the headquarters of that DOT component.

(5) Any such final determination by an Administrator or an Administrator's designee (following an appeal of an initial denial) is subject to concurrence by the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee, if the final determination is not to disclose a record or portion of a record under this part, or not to grant a request for a fee waiver or reduction.

(6) The Inspector General or the Inspector General's designee must consult with the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee before issuing a final determination following an appeal of an initial denial, if the final determination is not to disclose a record or portion of a record under this part, or not to grant a request for a fee waiver or reduction.
