
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.120 Tire selection and rims and motor home/recreation vehicle trailer load carrying capacity information for motor vehicles with a GVWR of more than 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds).
####### Labeling Requirements for Non-Pneumatic Spare Tires or Tire Assemblies.

S7Each non-pneumatic tire or, in the case of a non-pneumatic tire assembly in which the non-pneumatic tire is an integral part of the assembly, each non-pneumatic tire assembly shall include, in letters or numerals not less than 4 millimeters high, the information specified in paragraphs S7 (a) and (b). The information shall be permanently molded, stamped, or otherwise permanently marked into or onto the non-pneumatic tire or non-pneumatic tire assembly, or shall appear on a label that is permanently attached to the tire or tire assembly. If a label is used, it shall be subsurface printed, made of material that is resistant to fade, heat, moisture and abrasion, and attached in such a manner that it cannot be removed without destroying or defacing the label on the non-pneumatic tire or tire assembly. The information specified in paragraphs S7 (a) and (b) shall appear on both sides of the non-pneumatic tire or tire assembly, except, in the case of a non-pneumatic tire assembly which has a particular side that must always face outward when mounted on a vehicle, in which case the information specified in paragraphs S7 (a) and (b) shall only be required on the outward facing side. The information shall be positioned on the tire or tire assembly such that it is not placed on the tread or the outermost edge of the tire and is not obstructed by any portion of any non-pneumatic rim or wheel center member designated for use with that tire in this standard or in Standard No. 129.

(a) FOR TEMPORARY USE ONLY; and

(b) MAXIMUM 80 KM/H (50 M.P.H.).
