
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.120 Tire selection and rims and motor home/recreation vehicle trailer load carrying capacity information for motor vehicles with a GVWR of more than 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds).
####### Rim marking.

S5.2Each rim or, at the option of the manufacturer in the case of a single-piece wheel, wheel disc shall be marked with the information listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this paragraph, in lettering not less than 3 millimeters high, impressed to a depth or, at the option of the manufacturer, embossed to a height of not less than 0.125 millimeters. The information listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this paragraph shall appear on the weather side. In the case of rims of multi piece construction, the information listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this paragraph shall appear on the rim base and the information listed in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this paragraph shall also appear on each other part of the rim.

(a) A designation which indicates the source of the rim's published nominal dimensions, as follows:

(1) "T" indicates The Tire and Rim Association.

(2) "E" indicates The European Tyre and Rim Technical Organisation

(3) "J" indicates Japan Automobile Tire Manufacturers' Association, Inc.

(4) "D" indicates Deutsche Industrie Norm.

(5) "B" indicates British Standards Institution.

(6) "S" indicates Scandinavian Tire and Rim Organization.

(7) "A" indicates The Tyre and Rim Association of Australia.

(8) "N" indicates an independent listing pursuant to S4.4.1(a) of Standard No. 109 or S5.1(a) of Standard No. 119.

(b) The rim size designation, and in case of multipiece rims, the rim type designation. For example: 20 x 5.50, or 20 x 5.5.

(c) The symbol DOT, constituting a certification by the manufacturer of the rim that the rim complies with all applicable motor vehicle safety standards.

(d) A designation that identifies the manufacturer of the rim by name, trademark, or symbol.

(e) The month, day and year or the month and year of manufacture, expressed either numerically or by use of a symbol, at the option of the manufacturer. For example:

(1) Any manufacturer that elects to express the date of manufacture by means of a symbol shall notify NHTSA in writing of the full names and addresses of all manufacturers and brand name owners utilizing that symbol and the name and address of the trademark owner of that symbol, if any. The notification shall describe in narrative form and in detail how the month, day, and year or the month and year are depicted by the symbol. Such description shall include an actual size graphic depiction of the symbol, showing and/or explaining the interrelationship of the component parts of the symbol as they will appear on the rim or single piece wheel disc, including dimensional specifications, and where the symbol will be located on the rim or single piece wheel disc. The notification shall be received by NHTSA at least 60 calendar days prior to first use of the symbol. The notification shall be mailed to the Office of Vehicle Safety Compliance, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. All information provided to NHTSA under this paragraph will be placed in the public docket.

(2) Each manufacturer of wheels shall provide an explanation of its date of manufacture symbol to any person upon request.

S5.3 Each vehicle shall show the information specified in S5.3.1 and S5.3.2 and, in the case of a vehicle equipped with a non-pneumatic spare tire, the information specified in S5.3.3, in the English language, lettered in block capitals and numerals not less than 2.4 millimeters high and in the format set forth following this paragraph. This information shall appear either-

(a) After each GAWR listed on the certification label required by ยง 567.4 or ยง 567.5 of this chapter; or at the option of the manufacturer,

(b) On the tire information label affixed to the vehicle in the manner, location, and form described in ยง 567.4 (b) through (f) of this chapter as appropriate of each GVWR-GAWR combination listed on the certification label.
