
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.120 Tire selection and rims and motor home/recreation vehicle trailer load carrying capacity information for motor vehicles with a GVWR of more than 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds).
####### Weight added to motor homes and RV trailers between final vehicle certification and first retail sale of the vehicle.

S10.5

S10.5.1 If weight exceeding 45.4 kg (100 pounds) is added to a motor home or RV trailer between final vehicle certification and first retail sale of the vehicle, the load carrying capacity values on the RV load carrying capacity labels (Figures 1 and 2) required by S10.4 must be corrected using one or a combination of the following methods:

(a) Permanently affix the load carrying capacity modification label (Figure 3) which displays the amount the load carrying capacity is reduced to the nearest kilogram with conversion to the nearest pound, within 25 millimeters of the original, permanent RV load carrying capacity label (Figure 1 or 2). The load carrying capacity modification label must be legible, visible, permanent, moisture resistant, presented in the English language, have a minimum print size of 2.4 millimeters (3/32 inches) high and be printed in black print on a yellow background. If the manufacturer selects S10.4.3(b), apply a temporary version of the load carrying capacity modification label (Figure 3) within 25 millimeters of the original, temporary RV load carrying capacity label (Figure 1 or 2) on the interior of the forward-most exterior passenger door on the right side of the vehicle. Both temporary and permanent versions of the load carrying capacity modification label (Figure 3) may be printed without values and values may be legibly applied to the label with a black, fine point, indelible marker. The label must contain the statements "CAUTION-LOAD CARRYING CAPACITY REDUCED" in block letters and "Modifications to this vehicle have reduced the original load carrying capacity by XXX kg or XXX lbs" in accordance with Figure 3 with appropriate values in place of XXX. If two load carrying capacity modification labels are required (one permanent and one temporary), the weight values on each must agree, or

(b) Modify the original permanent RV load carrying capacity label (Figure 1 or 2) with correct load carrying capacity weight values. If the manufacturer selects S10.4.3(b), the temporary RV load carrying capacity label (Figure 1 or 2) must also be modified with correct load carrying capacity weight values. Modification of labels requires a machine printed overlay with printed corrected values or blanks for corrected values that may be entered with a black, fine-point, indelible marker. Crossing out old values and entering corrected values on the original label is not permissible, or

(c) Replace the original, permanent RV load carrying capacity label (Figure 1 or 2) with the same label containing correct load carrying capacity weight values. If the manufacturer selects S10.4.3(b), the temporary RV load carrying capacity label (Figure 1 or 2) must also be replaced with the same label containing correct load carrying capacity weight values.

S10.5.2 Corrected load carrying capacity weight values or the weight amount the load carrying capacity is reduced, must reflect the total weight added between final vehicle certification and first retail sale and must be accurate within one percent of the actual added weight. No re-labeling is required if the weight of the vehicle is reduced between final vehicle certification and the first retail sale.
