
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Reservoirs.

S5.1.2One or more service reservoir systems, from which air is delivered to the brake chambers, and either an automatic condensate drain valve for each service reservoir or a supply reservoir between the service reservoir system and the source of air pressure.

S5.1.2.1 The combined volume of all service reservoirs and supply reservoirs shall be at least 12 times the combined volume of all service brake chambers. For each brake chamber type having a full stroke at least as great as the first number in Column 1 of Table V, but no more than the second number in Column 1 of Table V, the volume of each brake chamber for purposes of calculating the required combined service and supply reservoir volume shall be either that specified in Column 2 of Table V or the actual volume of the brake chamber at maximum travel of the brake piston or pushrod, whichever is lower. The volume of a brake chamber not listed in Table V is the volume of the brake chamber at maximum travel of the brake piston or pushrod. The reservoirs of the truck portion of an auto transporter need not meet this requirement for reservoir volume.

S5.1.2.2 Each reservoir shall be capable of withstanding an internal hydrostatic pressure of five times the compressor cutout pressure or 500 psi, whichever is greater, for 10 minutes.

S5.1.2.3 Each service reservoir system shall be protected against loss of air pressure due to failure or leakage in the system between the service reservoir and the source of air pressure, by check valves or equivalent devices whose proper functioning can be checked without disconnecting any air line or fitting.

S5.1.2.4 Each reservoir shall have a condensate drain valve that can be manually operated.
