
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Antilock malfunction signal and circuit.

S5.1.6.2

(a) Each truck tractor manufactured on or after March 1, 1997, and each single unit vehicle manufactured on or after March 1, 1998, shall be equipped with an indicator lamp, mounted in front of and in clear view of the driver, which is activated whenever there is a malfunction that affects the generation or transmission of response or control signals in the vehicle's antilock brake system. The indicator lamp shall remain activated as long as such a malfunction exists, whenever the ignition (start) switch is in the "on" ("run") position, whether or not the engine is running. Each message about the existence of such a malfunction shall be stored in the antilock brake system after the ignition switch is turned to the "off" position and automatically reactivated when the ignition switch is again turned to the "on" ("run") position. The indicator lamp shall also be activated as a check of lamp function whenever the ignition is turned to the "on" ("run") position. The indicator lamp shall be deactivated at the end of the check of lamp function unless there is a malfunction or a message about a malfunction that existed when the key switch was last turned to the "off" position.

(b) Each truck tractor manufactured on or after March 1, 2001, and each single unit vehicle manufactured on or after March 1, 2001, that is equipped to tow another air-braked vehicle, shall be equipped with an electrical circuit that is capable of transmitting a malfunction signal from the antilock brake system(s) on one or more towed vehicle(s) (e.g., trailer(s) and dolly(ies)) to the trailer ABS malfunction lamp in the cab of the towing vehicle, and shall have the means for connection of this electrical circuit to the towed vehicle. Each such truck tractor and single unit vehicle shall also be equipped with an indicator lamp, separate from the lamp required in S5.1.6.2(a), mounted in front of and in clear view of the driver, which is activated whenever the malfunction signal circuit described above receives a signal indicating an ABS malfunction on one or more towed vehicle(s). The indicator lamp shall remain activated as long as an ABS malfunction signal from one or more towed vehicle(s) is present, whenever the ignition (start) switch is in the "on" ("run") position, whether or not the engine is running. The indicator lamp shall also be activated as a check of lamp function whenever the ignition is turned to the "on" ("run") position. The indicator lamp shall be deactivated at the end of the check of lamp function unless a trailer ABS malfunction signal is present.

(c) [Reserved]
