
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Reservoirs.

S5.2.1One or more reservoirs to which the air is delivered from the towing vehicle.

S5.2.1.1 The total volume of each service reservoir shall be at least eight times the combined volume of all service brake chambers serviced by that reservoir. For each brake chamber type having a full stroke at least as great as the first number in Column 1 of Table V, but no more than the second number in column 1, the volume of each brake chamber for purposes of calculating the required total service reservoir volume shall be either the number specified in Column 2 of Table V or the actual volume of the brake chamber at maximum travel of the brake piston or pushrod, whichever is lower. The volume of a brake chamber not listed in Table V is the volume of the brake chamber at maximum travel of the brake piston or pushrod. The reservoirs on a heavy hauler trailer and the trailer portion of an auto transporter need not meet this requirement for reservoir volume.

S5.2.1.2 Each reservoir shall be capable of withstanding an internal hydrostatic pressure of 500 psi for 10 minutes.

S5.2.1.3 Each reservoir shall have a condensate drain valve that can be manually operated.

S5.2.1.4 Each service reservoir shall be protected against loss of air pressure due to failure or leakage in the system between the service reservoir and its source of air pressure by check valves or equivalent devices.
