
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Antilock malfunction signal.

S5.2.3.2Each trailer (including a trailer converter dolly) manufactured on or after March 1, 2001, that is equipped with an antilock brake system shall be equipped with an electrical circuit that is capable of signaling a malfunction in the trailer's antilock brake system, and shall have the means for connection of this antilock brake system malfunction signal circuit to the towing vehicle. The electrical circuit need not be separate or dedicated exclusively to this malfunction signaling function. The signal shall be present whenever there is a malfunction that affects the generation or transmission of response or control signals in the trailer's antilock brake system. The signal shall remain present as long as the malfunction exists, whenever power is supplied to the antilock brake system. Each message about the existence of such a malfunction shall be stored in the antilock brake system whenever power is no longer supplied to the system, and the malfunction signal shall be automatically reactivated whenever power is again supplied to the trailer's antilock brake system. In addition, each trailer manufactured on or after March 1, 2001, that is designed to tow other air-brake equipped trailers shall be capable of transmitting a malfunction signal from the antilock brake systems of additional trailers it tows to the vehicle towing it.
