
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Location requirements.

(c)(1) Each trailer that is not a trailer converter dolly shall be equipped with a lamp mounted on a permanent structure on the left side of the trailer as viewed from the rear, no closer than 150 mm (5.9 inches), and no farther than 600 mm (23.6 inches) from the red rear side marker lamp, when measured between the closest edge of the effective projected luminous lens area of each lamp.

(2) Each trailer converter dolly shall be equipped with a lamp mounted on a permanent structure of the dolly so that the lamp is not less than 375 mm (14.8 inches) above the road surface when measured from the center of the lamp with the dolly at curb weight. When a person, standing 3 meters (9.8 feet) from the lamp, views the lamp from a perspective perpendicular to the vehicle's centerline, no portion of the lamp shall be obscured by any structure on the dolly.

(3) Each trailer that is not a trailer converter dolly and on which the malfunction indicator lamp cannot be placed within the location specified in S5.2.3.3(c)(1) shall be equipped with a lamp mounted on a permanent structure on the left side of the trailer as viewed from the rear, near the red rear side marker lamp or on the front face of the left rear fender of a trailer equipped with fenders.

(d) The lamp shall be illuminated whenever power is supplied to the antilock brake system and there is a malfunction that affects the generation or transmission of response or control signals in the trailer's antilock brake system. The lamp shall remain illuminated as long as such a malfunction exists and power is supplied to the antilock brake system. Each message about the existence of such a malfunction shall be stored in the antilock brake system whenever power is no longer supplied to the system. The lamp shall be automatically reactivated when power is again supplied to the trailer's antilock brake system. The lamp shall also be activated as a check of lamp function whenever power is first supplied to the antilock brake system and the vehicle is stationary. The lamp shall be deactivated at the end of the check of lamp function, unless there is a malfunction or a message about a malfunction that existed when power was last supplied to the antilock brake system.

S5.3 Service brakes-road tests. The service brake system on each truck tractor shall, under the conditions of S6, meet the requirements of S5.3.1, S5.3.3, S5.3.4, and S5.3.6, when tested without adjustments other than those specified in this standard. The service brake system on each bus and truck (other than a truck tractor shall) manufactured before July 1, 2005 and each bus and truck (other than a truck tractor) manufactured in two or more stages shall, under the conditions of S6, meet the requirements of S5.3.1, S5.3.3, and S5.3.4 when tested without adjustments other than those specified in this standard. The service brake system on each bus and truck (other than a truck tractor) manufactured on or after July 1, 2005 and each bus and truck (other than a truck tractor) manufactured in two or more stages on or after July 1, 2006 shall, under the conditions of S6, meet the requirements of S5.3.1, S5.3.3, S5.3.4, and S5.3.6, when tested without adjustments other than those specified in this standard. The service brake system on each trailer shall, under the conditions of S6, meet the requirements of S5.3.3, S5.3.4, and S5.3.5 when tested without adjustments other than those specified in this standard. However, a heavy hauler trailer and the truck and trailer portions of an auto transporter need not met the requirements of S5.3.
