
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Brake retardation force.

S5.4.1The sum of the retardation forces exerted by the brakes on each vehicle designed to be towed by another vehicle equipped with air brakes shall be such that the quotient sum of the brake retardation forces / sum of GAWR's relative to brake chamber air pressure, and shall have values not less than those shown in Column 1 of Table III. Retardation force shall be determined as follows:

S5.4.1.1 After burnishing the brake pursuant to S6.2.6, retain the brake assembly on the inertia dynamometer. With an initial brake temperature between 125 &#xB0;F. and 200 &#xB0;F., conduct a stop from 50 m.p.h., maintaining brake chamber air pressure at a constant 20 psi. Measure the average torque exerted by the brake from the time the specified air pressure is reached until the brake stops and divide by the static loaded tire radius specified by the tire manufacturer to determine the retardation force. Repeat the procedure six times, increasing the brake chamber air pressure by 10 psi each time. After each stop, rotate the brake drum or disc until the temperature of the brake falls to between 125 &#xB0;F. and 200 &#xB0;F.
