
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Stopping distance-trucks and buses.

S5.3.1When stopped six times for each combination of vehicle type, weight, and speed specified in S5.3.1.1, in the sequence specified in Table I, each truck tractor manufactured on or after March 1, 1997, and each single unit vehicle manufactured on or after March 1, 1998, shall stop at least once in not more than the distance specified in Table II, measured from the point at which movement of the service brake control begins, without any part of the vehicle leaving the roadway, and with wheel lockup permitted only as follows:

(a) At vehicle speeds above 20 mph, any wheel on a nonsteerable axle other than the two rearmost nonliftable, nonsteerable axles may lock up, for any duration. The wheels on the two rearmost nonliftable, nonsteerable axles may lock up according to S5.3.1(b).

(b) At vehicle speeds above 20 mph, one wheel on any axle or two wheels on any tandem may lock up for any duration.

(c) At vehicle speeds above 20 mph, any wheel not permitted to lock in S5.3.1 (a) or (b) may lock up repeatedly, with each lockup occurring for a duration of one second or less.

(d) At vehicle speeds of 20 mph or less, any wheel may lock up for any duration.

S5.3.1.1 Stop the vehicle from 60 mph on a surface with a peak friction coefficient of 1.02 with the vehicle loaded as follows:

(a) Loaded to its GVWR so that the load on each axle, measured at the tire-ground interface, is most nearly proportional to the axles' respective GAWRs, without exceeding the GAWR of any axle.

(b) In the truck tractor only configuration plus up to 500 lbs. or, at the manufacturer's option, at its unloaded weight plus up to 500 lbs. (including driver and instrumentation) and plus not more than an additional 1,000 lbs. for a roll bar structure on the vehicle, and

(c) At its unloaded vehicle weight (except for truck tractors) plus up to 500 lbs. (including driver and instrumentation) or, at the manufacturer's option, at its unloaded weight plus up to 500 lbs. (including driver and instrumentation) plus not more than an additional 1,000 lbs. for a roll bar structure on the vehicle. If the speed attainable in two miles is less than 60 mph, the vehicle shall stop from a speed in Table II that is four to eight mph less than the speed attainable in two miles.

S5.3.2 [Reserved]
