
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Control signal pressure differential-converter dollies and trailers designed to tow another vehicle equipped with air brakes.

S5.3.5

(a) For a trailer designed to tow another vehicle equipped with air brakes, the pressure differential between the control line input coupling and a 50-cubic-inch test reservoir attached to the control line output coupling shall not exceed the values specified in S5.3.5(a) (1), (2), and (3) under the conditions specified in S5.3.5(b) (1) through (4):

(1) 1 psi at all input pressures equal to or greater than 5 psi, but not greater than 20 psi;

(2) 2 psi at all input pressures equal to or greater than 20 psi but not greater than 40 psi; and

(3) Not more than a 5-percent differential at any input pressure equal to or greater than 40 psi.

(b) The requirements in S5.3.5(a) shall be met-

(1) When the pressure at the input coupling is steady, increasing or decreasing;

(2) When air is applied to or released from the control line input coupling using the trailer test rig shown in Figure 1;

(3) With a fixed orifice consisting of a 0.0180 inch diameter hole (no. 77 drill bit) in a 0.032 inch thick disc installed in the control line between the trailer test rig coupling and the vehicle's control line input coupling; and

(4) Operating the trailer test rig in the same manner and under the same conditions as it is operated during testing to measure brake actuation and release times, as specified in S5.3.3 and S5.3.4, except for the installation of the orifice in the control line to restrict airflow rate.

S5.3.6 Stability and control during braking-trucks and buses. When stopped four consecutive times for each combination of weight, speed, and road conditions specified in S5.3.6.1 and S5.3.6.2, each truck tractor shall stop at least three times within the 12-foot lane, without any part of the vehicle leaving the roadway. When stopped four consecutive times for each combination of weight, speed, and road conditions specified in S5.3.6.1 and S5.3.6.2, each bus and truck (other than a truck tractor) manufactured on or after July 1, 2005, and each bus and truck (other than a truck tractor) manufactured in two or more stages on or after July 1, 2006, shall stop at least three times within the 12-foot lane, without any part of the vehicle leaving the roadway.

S5.3.6.1 Using a full-treadle brake application for the duration of the stop, stop the vehicle from 30 mph or 75 percent of the maximum drive-through speed, whichever is less, on a 500-foot radius curved roadway with a wet level surface having a peak friction coefficient of 0.55 when measured on a straight or curved section of the curved roadway using an ASTM F2493 standard reference tire, in accordance with ASTM E1337-19 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), at a speed of 40 mph, with water delivery.

S5.3.6.2 Stop the vehicle, with the vehicle:

(a) Loaded to its GVWR, for a truck tractor, and

(b) At its unloaded weight plus up to 500 pounds (including driver and instrumentation), or at the manufacturer's option, at its unloaded weight plus up to 500 pounds (including driver and instrumentation) and plus not more than an additional 1000 pounds for a roll bar structure on the vehicle, for a truck, bus, or truck tractor.
