
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Antilock malfunction indicator.

S5.2.3.3

(a) In addition to the requirements of S5.2.3.2, each trailer and trailer converter dolly shall be equipped with an external antilock malfunction indicator lamp that meets the requirements of S5.2.3.3 (b) through (d).

(b)(1) The lamp shall be designed to conform to the performance requirements of SAE Recommended Practice J592 JUN92 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), or SAE Recommended Practice J592e (1972) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), for combination, clearance, and side marker lamps, which are marked with a "PC" or "P2" on the lens or housing, in accordance with SAE Recommended Practice J759 JAN95 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5).

(2) The color of the lamp shall be yellow.

(3) The letters "ABS" shall be permanently molded, stamped, or otherwise marked or labeled in letters not less than 10 mm (0.4 inches) high on the lamp lens or its housing to identify the function of the lamp. Alternatively, the letters "ABS" may be painted on the trailer body or dolly or a plaque with the letters "ABS" may be affixed to the trailer body or converter dolly; the letters "ABS" shall be not less than 25 mm (1 inch) high. A portion of one of the letters in the alternative identification shall be not more than 150 mm (5.9 inches) from the edge of the lamp lens.
