
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Release Performance.

S5.6.5Each parking brake system shall meet the requirements specified in S5.6.5.1 through S5.6.5.4.

S5.6.5.1 For trucks and buses, with initial conditions as specified in S5.6.5.2, at all times after an application actuation of the parking brake control, and with any subsequent level of pressure, or combination of levels of pressure, in the reservoirs of any of the vehicle's brake systems, no reduction in parking brake retardation force shall result from a release actuation of the parking brake control unless the parking brakes are capable, after such release, of being reapplied at a level meeting the minimum performance specified either in S5.6.1 or S5.6.2. This requirement shall be met both with and without the engine on, and with and without single leakage-type failure, in any other brake system, of a part designed to contain compressed air or brake fluid (consistent with the parenthetical phrase specified in S5.6.3.1).

S5.6.5.2 The initial conditions for S5.6.5.1 are as follows: The reservoir system pressure is 100 psi. If the vehicle is designed to tow a vehicle equipped with air brakes, a 50 cubic inch test reservoir is connected to the supply line coupling.

S5.6.5.3 For trailers, with initial conditions as specified in S5.6.5.4, at all times after actuation of the parking brakes by venting the front supply line coupling to the atmosphere, and with any subsequent level of pressure, or combination of levels of pressure, in the reservoirs of any of the vehicle's brake systems, the parking brakes shall not be releasable by repressurizing the supply line using the supply line portion of the trailer test rig (Figure 1) to any pressure above 70 psi, unless the parking brakes are capable, after such release, of reapplication by subsequent venting of the front supply line coupling to the atmosphere, at a level meeting the minimum performance specified either in S5.6.1 or S5.6.2. This requirement shall be met both with and without any single leakage-type failure, in any other brake system, of a part designed to contain compressed air or brake fluid (consistent with the parenthetical phrase specified in S5.6.3.1).

S5.6.5.4 The initial conditions for S5.6.5.3 are as follows: The reservoir system and supply line are pressurized to 100 psi, using the supply line portion of the trailer test rig (Figure 1). If the vehicle is designed to tow a vehicle equipped with air brakes, a 50 cubic inch test reservoir is connected to the rear supply line coupling.
