
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Accumulation of actuation energy.

S5.6.6Each parking brake system shall meet the requirements specified in S5.6.6.1 through S5.6.6.6.

S5.6.6.1 For trucks and buses, with initial conditions as specified in S5.6.6.2, the parking brake system shall be capable of meeting the minimum performance specified either in S5.6.1 or S5.6.2, with any single leakage-type failure, in any other brake system, of a part designed to contain compressed air or brake fluid (consistent with the parenthetical phrase specified in S5.6.3.1) at the conclusion of the test sequence specified in S5.6.6.3.

S5.6.6.2 The initial conditions for S5.6.6.1 are as follows: The engine is on. The reservoir system pressure is 100 psi. If the vehicle is designed to tow a vehicle equipped with air brakes, a 50 cubic inch test reservoir is connected to the supply line coupling.

S5.6.6.3 The test sequence for S5.6.6.1 is as follows: The engine is turned off. Any single leakage type failure, in any other brake system, of a part designed to contain compressed air or brake fluid (consistent with the parenthetical phrase specified in S5.6.3.1), is then introduced in the brake system. An application actuation of the parking brake control is then made. Thirty seconds after such actuation, a release actuation of the parking brake control is made. Thirty seconds after the release actuation, a final application actuation of the parking brake control is made.

S5.6.6.4 For trailers, with initial conditions as specified in S5.6.6.5, the parking brake system shall be capable of meeting the minimum performance specified either in S5.6.1 or S5.6.2, with any single leakage-type failure, in any other brake system, of a part designed to contain compressed air or brake fluid (consistent with the parenthetical phrase specified in S5.6.3.1), at the conclusion of the test sequence specified in S5.6.6.6.

S5.6.6.5 The initial conditions for S5.6.6.4 are as follows: The reservoir system and supply line are pressurized to 100 psi, using the supply line portion of the trailer test rig (Figure 1). If the vehicle is designed to tow a vehicle equipped with air brakes, a 50 cubic inch test reservoir is connected to the rear supply line coupling.

S5.6.6.6 The test sequence for S5.6.6.4 is as follows. Any single leakage type failure, in any other brake system, of a part designed to contain compressed air or brake fluid (consistent with the parenthetical phrase specified in S5.6.3.1), is introduced in the brake system. The front supply line coupling is vented to the atmosphere. Thirty seconds after the initiation of such venting, the supply line is repressurized with the trailer test rig (Figure 1). Thirty seconds after the initiation of such repressurizing of the supply line, the front supply line is vented to the atmosphere. This procedure is conducted either by connection and disconnection of the supply line coupling or by use of a valve installed in the supply line portion of the trailer test rig near the supply line coupling.
