
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Road test conditions.

S6.1

S6.1.1 Except as otherwise specified, the vehicle is loaded to its GVWR, distributed proportionally to its GAWRs. During the burnish procedure specified in S6.1.8, truck tractors shall be loaded to their GVWR, by coupling them to an unbraked flatbed semitrailer, which semitrailer shall be loaded so that the weight of the tractor-trailer combination equals the GVWR of the truck tractor. The load on the unbraked flatbed semitrailer shall be located so that the truck tractor's wheels do not lock during burnish.

S6.1.2 The inflation pressure is as specified by the vehicle manufacturer for the GVWR.

S6.1.3 Unless otherwise specified, the transmission selector control is in neutral or the clutch is disengaged during all decelerations and during static parking brake tests.

S6.1.4 All vehicle openings (doors, windows, hood, trunk, cargo doors, etc.) are in a closed position except as required for instrumentation purposes.

S6.1.5 The ambient temperature is between 32 &#xB0;F. and 100 &#xB0;F.

S6.1.6 The wind velocity is zero.

S6.1.7 Unless otherwise specified, stopping tests are conducted on a 12-foot wide level, straight roadway having a peak friction coefficient of 1.02. For road tests in S5.3, the vehicle is aligned in the center of the roadway at the beginning of a stop. Peak friction coefficient is measured using an ASTM F2493 standard reference test tire in accordance with ASTM E1337-19 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), at a speed of 40 mph, without water delivery for the surface with PFC of 1.02, and with water delivery for the surface with PFC of 0.55.

S6.1.8 For vehicles with parking brake systems not utilizing the service brake friction elements, burnish the friction elements of such systems prior to the parking brake test according to the manufacturer's recommendations. For vehicles with parking brake systems utilizing the service brake friction elements, burnish the brakes as follows: With the transmission in the highest gear appropriate for a speed of 40 mph, make 500 snubs between 40 mph and 20 mph at a deceleration rate of 10 f.p.s.p.s., or at the vehicle's maximum deceleration rate if less than 10 f.p.s.p.s. Except where an adjustment is specified, after each brake application accelerate to 40 mph and maintain that speed until making the next brake application at a point 1 mile from the initial point of the previous brake application. If the vehicle cannot attain a speed of 40 mph in 1 mile, continue to accelerate until the vehicle reaches 40 mph or until the vehicle has traveled 1.5 miles from the initial point of the previous brake application, whichever occurs first. Any automatic pressure limiting valve is in use to limit pressure as designed. The brakes may be adjusted up to three times during the burnish procedure, at intervals specified by the vehicle manufacturer, and may be adjusted at the conclusion of the burnishing, in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer's recommendation.

S6.1.9 Static parking brake tests for a semitrailer are conducted with the front-end supported by an unbraked dolly. The weight of the dolly is included as part of the trailer load.

S6.1.10 In a test other than a static parking test, a truck tractor is tested at its GVWR by coupling it to an unbraked flatbed semi-trailer (hereafter, control trailer) as specified in S6.1.10.2 to S6.1.10.4.

S6.1.10.1 [Reserved]

S6.1.10.2 The center of gravity height of the ballast on the loaded control trailer shall be less than 24 inches above the top of the tractor's fifth wheel.

S6.1.10.3 The control trailer has a single axle with a GAWR of 18,000 pounds and a length, measured from the transverse centerline of the axle to the centerline of the kingpin, of 258 +/-6 inches.

S6.1.10.4 The control trailer is loaded so that its axle is loaded at 4,500 pounds and the tractor is loaded to its GVWR, loaded above the kingpin only, with the tractor's fifth wheel adjusted so that the load on each axle measured at the tire-ground interface is most nearly proportional to the axles' respective GAWRs, without exceeding the GAWR of the tractor's axle or axles or control trailer's axle.
