
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems.
####### Dynamometer test conditions.

S6.2

S6.2.1 The dynamometer inertia for each wheel is equivalent to the load on the wheel with the axle loaded to its GAWR. For a vehicle having additional GAWRs specified for operation at reduced speeds, the GAWR used is that specified for a speed of 50 mph, or, at the option of the manufacturer, any speed greater than 50 mph.

S6.2.2 The ambient temperature is between 75 &#xB0;F. and 100 &#xB0;F.

S6.2.3 Air at ambient temperature is directed uniformly and continuously over the brake drum or disc at a velocity of 2,200 feet per minute.

S6.2.4 The temperature of each brake is measured by a single plug-type thermocouple installed in the center of the lining surface of the most heavily loaded shoe or pad as shown in Figure 2. The thermocouple is outside any center groove.

S6.2.5 The rate of brake drum or disc rotation on a dynamometer corresponding to the rate of rotation on a vehicle at a given speed is calculated by assuming a tire radius equal to the static loaded radius specified by the tire manufacturer.

S6.2.6 Brakes are burnished before testing as follows: place the brake assembly on an inertia dynamometer and adjust the brake as recommended by the vehicle manufacturer. Make 200 stops from 40 mph at a deceleration of 10 f.p.s.p.s., with an initial brake temperature on each stop of not less than 315 &#xB0;F and not more than 385 &#xB0;F. Make 200 additional stops from 40 mph at a deceleration of 10 f.p.s.p.s. with an initial brake temperature on each stop of not less than 450 &#xB0;F and not more than 550 &#xB0;F. The brakes may be adjusted up to three times during the burnish procedure, at intervals specified by the vehicle manufacturer, and may be adjusted at the conclusion of the burnishing, in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer's recommendation.

S6.2.7 The brake temperature is increased to a specified level by conducting one or more stops from 40 m.p.h. at a deceleration of 10 f.p.s.p.s. The brake temperature is decreased to a specified level by rotating the drum or disc at a constant 30 m.p.h.
