
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.122a Standard No. 122; Motorcycle brake systems.
####### Failure indicator lamp.

S5.1.3.1

(a) One or more electrically operated service brake system failure indicator lamps that is mounted in front of and in clear view of the driver, and that is activated-

(1) In the event of pressure failure in any part of the service brake system, other than a structural failure of either a brake master cylinder body in a split integral body type master cylinder system or a service brake system failure indicator body, before or upon application of not more than 20 pounds of pedal force upon the service brake.

(2) Without the application of pedal force, when the level of brake fluid in a master cylinder reservoir drops to less than the recommended safe level specified by the manufacturer or to less than one-half the fluid reservoir capacity, whichever is the greater.

(b) All failure indicator lamps shall be activated when the ignition switch is turned from the "off" to the "on" or to the "start" position.

(c) Except for the momentary activation required by S5.1.3.1(b), each indicator lamp, once activated, shall remain activated as long as the condition exists, whenever the ignition switch is in the "on" position. An indicator lamp activated when the ignition is turned to the "start" position shall be deactivated upon return of the switch to the "on" position unless a failure exists in the service brake system.

(d) Each indicator lamp shall have a red lens with the legend "Brake Failure" on or adjacent to it in letters not less than three thirty-seconds of an inch high that shall be legible to the driver in daylight when lighted.
