
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.124 Standard No. 124; Accelerator control systems.
####### Requirements.

S5.The vehicle shall meet the following requirements when the engine is running under any load condition, and at any ambient temperature between -40 degrees Celsius and + 52 degrees Celsius after 12 hours of conditioning at any temperature within that range.

S5.1 There shall be at least two sources of energy capable of returning the throttle to the idle position within the time limit specified by S5.3 from any accelerator position or speed whenever the driver removes the opposing actuating force. In the event of failure of one source of energy by a single severance or disconnection, the throttle shall return to the idle position within the time limits specified by S5.3, from any accelerator position or speed whenever the driver removes the opposing actuating force.

S5.2 The throttle shall return to the idle position from any accelerator position or any speed of which the engine is capable whenever any one component of the accelerator control system is disconnected or severed at a single point. The return to idle shall occur within the time limit specified by S5.3, measured either from the time of severance or disconnection or from the first removal of the opposing actuating force by the driver.

S5.3 Except as provided below, maximum time to return to idle position shall be 1 second for vehicles of 4536 kilograms or less GVWR, and 2 seconds for vehicles of more than 4536 kilograms GVWR. Maximum time to return to idle position shall be 3 seconds for any vehicle that is exposed to ambient air at -18 degrees Celsius to -40 degrees Celsius during the test or for any portion of the 12-hour conditioning period.
