
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.125 Standard No. 125; Warning devices.
####### Configuration.

S5.2

S5.2.1 When the warning device is erected on level ground:

(a) Part of the warning device shall form an equilateral triangle that stands in a plane not more than 10&#xB0; from the vertical, with the lower edge of the base of the triangle horizontal and not less than 1 inch above the ground.

(b) None of the required portion of the reflective material and fluorescent material shall be obscured by any other part of the warning device except for any portion of the material over which it is necessary to provide fasteners, pivoting beads or other means to allow collapsibility or support of the device. In any event, sufficient reflective and fluorescent material shall be used on the triangle to meet the requirements of S5.4 and S5.5.

S5.2.2 Each of the three sides of the triangular portion of the warning device shall not be less than 17 and not more than 22 inches long, and not less than 2 and not more than 3 inches wide (Figure 1).

S5.2.3 Each face of the triangular portion of the warning device shall have an outer border of red reflex reflective material of uniform width and not less than 0.75 and not more than 1.75 inches wide, and an inner border of orange fluorescent material of uniform width and not less than 1.25 and not more than 1.30 inches wide (Figure 1). However, this requirement shall not apply if the dual purpose material is used.

S5.2.4 Each vertex of the triangular portion of the warning device shall have a radius of not less than 0.25 inch and not more than 0.50 inch.

S5.2.5 All edges shall be rounded or chamfered, as necessary, to reduce the possibility of cutting or harm to the user.

S5.2.6 The device shall consist entirely of the triangular portion and attachments necessary for its support and enclosure, without additional visible shapes or attachments.
