
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.125 Standard No. 125; Warning devices.
####### Equipment.

S5.1

S5.1.1 Reflex reflective material and fluorescent material that meet the requirements of this standard shall be affixed to both faces of the warning device. Alternatively, a dual purpose orange fluorescent and red reflective material that meets the requirements of this standard (hereafter referred to as "dual purpose material") may be affixed to both faces in places of the reflective and fluorescent materials.

S5.1.2 Each warning device shall be protected from damage and deterioration-

(a) By enclosure in an opaque protective reusable container, except that two or three warning devices intended to be sold for use as a set with a single vehicle may be enclosed in a single container; or

(b) By secure attachment to any light-tight, enclosed, and easily accessible compartment of a new motor vehicle with which it is supplied by the vehicle manufacturer.

S5.1.3 The warning device shall be designed to be erected, and replaced in its container, without the use of tools.

S5.1.4 The warning device shall be permanently and legibly marked with:

(a) Name of manufacturer;

(b) Month and year of manufacture, which may be expressed numerically, as "6/72"; and

(c) The symbol DOT, or the statement that the warning device complies with all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards.

S5.1.5 Each warning device shall have instructions for its erection and display.

(a) The instructions shall be either indelibly printed on the warning device or attached in such a manner that they cannot be easily removed.

(b) Instructions for each warning device shall include a recommendation that the driver activate the vehicular hazard warning signal lamps before leaving the vehicle to erect the warning device.

(c) Instructions shall include the illustration depicted in Figure 3 indicating recommended positioning.
