
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.126 Standard No. 126; Electronic stability control systems for light vehicles.
####### ESC System Technical Documentation.

S5.6To ensure a vehicle is equipped with an ESC system that meets the definition of "ESC System" in S4, the vehicle manufacturer must make available to the agency, upon request, the following documentation:

S5.6.1 A system diagram that identifies all ESC system hardware. The diagram must identify what components are used to generate brake torques at each wheel, determine vehicle yaw rate, estimated side slip or the side slip derivative and driver steering inputs.

S5.6.2 A written explanation describing the ESC system basic operational characteristics. This explanation must include a discussion on the system's capability to apply brake torques at each wheel and how the system modifies engine torque during ESC system activation. The explanation must also identify the vehicle speed range and the driving phases (acceleration, deceleration, coasting, during activation of the ABS or traction control) under which the ESC system can activate.

S5.6.3 A logic diagram that supports the explanation provided in S5.6.2.

S5.6.4 Specifically for mitigating vehicle understeer, a discussion of the pertinent inputs to the computer or calculations within the computer and how its algorithm uses that information and controls ESC system hardware to limit vehicle understeer.
