
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.126 Standard No. 126; Electronic stability control systems for light vehicles.
####### ESC Malfunction.

S5.3The vehicle must be equipped with a telltale that provides a warning to the driver of the occurrence of one or more malfunctions that affect the generation or transmission of control or response signals in the vehicle's electronic stability control system. When tested according to S7.10, the ESC malfunction telltale:

S5.3.1 As of September 1, 2011, must be mounted inside the occupant compartment in front of and in clear view of the driver;

S5.3.2 As of September 1, 2011, must be identified by the symbol shown for "ESC Malfunction Telltale" or the specified words or abbreviations listed in Table 1 of Standard No. 101 (49 CFR 571.101);

S5.3.3 As of September 1, 2011, except as provided in paragraphs S5.3.4, S5.3.5, S5.3.8, and S5.3.10, the ESC malfunction telltale must illuminate only when a malfunction(s) of the ESC system exists and must remain continuously illuminated under the conditions specified in S5.3 for as long as the malfunction(s) exists (unless the "ESC malfunction" and "ESC Off" telltales are combined in a two-part telltale and the "ESC Off" telltale is illuminated), whenever the ignition locking system is in the "On" ("Run") position; and

S5.3.4 As of September 1, 2011, except as provided in paragraph S5.3.5, each ESC malfunction telltale must be activated as a check of lamp function either when the ignition locking system is turned to the "On" ("Run") position when the engine is not running, or when the ignition locking system is in a position between "On" ("Run") and "Start" that is designated by the manufacturer as a check position.

S5.3.5 The ESC malfunction telltale need not be activated when a starter interlock is in operation.

S5.3.6 The requirement S5.3.4 does not apply to telltales shown in a common space.

S5.3.7 The ESC malfunction telltale must extinguish at the next ignition cycle after the malfunction has been corrected.

S5.3.8 The manufacturer may use the ESC malfunction telltale in a flashing mode to indicate ESC operation.

S5.3.9 Prior to September 1, 2011, a disconnection of the power to the ESC electronic control unit may be indicated by the ABS malfunction telltale instead of the ESC malfunction telltale.

S5.3.10 Manufacturers may use the ESC malfunction telltale in a steady-burning mode to indicate malfunctions of ESC-related systems and functions including traction control, trailer stability assist, corner brake control, and other similar functions that use throttle and/or individual wheel torque control to operate and share common components with the ESC system, and may use the ESC malfunction telltale in a flashing mode to indicate operation of these ESC-related systems.
