
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.126 Standard No. 126; Electronic stability control systems for light vehicles.
####### ESC Off Telltale

S5.5

S5.5.1 Except as provided in S5.5.10, the vehicle manufacturer must provide a telltale indicating that the vehicle has been put into a mode that renders it unable to satisfy the requirements of S5.2.1, S5.2.2 and S5.2.3, if such a mode is provided.

S5.5.2 As of September 1, 2011, the "ESC Off" telltale must be identified by the symbol shown for "ESC Off" in Table 1 of Standard No. 101 (49 CFR 571.101) or the text, "ESC Off" as listed under "Word(s) or Abbreviations" in Table 1 of Standard No. 101 (49 CFR 571.101).

S5.5.3 As of September 1, 2011, the "ESC Off" telltale must be mounted inside the occupant compartment in front of and in clear view of the driver.

S5.5.4 Except as provided in paragraph S5.4.4, the "ESC Off" telltale must remain continuously illuminated for as long as the ESC is in a mode that renders it unable to satisfy the requirements of S5.2.1, S5.2.2, and S5.2.3, and

S5.5.5 Notwithstanding S5.3.1(e) of 49 CFR 571.101, the vehicle manufacturer may use the "ESC Off" telltale to indicate an ESC level of function other than the fully functional default mode even if the vehicle would meet S5.2.1, S5.2.2 and S5.2.3 at that level of ESC function.

S5.5.6 As of September 1, 2011, except as provided in paragraph S5.5.7 and S5.5.8, each "ESC Off" telltale must be activated as a check of lamp function either when the ignition locking system is turned to the "On" ("Run") position when the engine is not running, or when the ignition locking system is in a position between "On" ("Run") and "Start" that is designated by the manufacturer as a check position.

S5.5.7 The "ESC Off" telltale need not be activated when a starter interlock is in operation.

S5.5.8 The requirement S5.5.6 does not apply to telltales shown in a common space.

S5.5.9 The "ESC Off" telltale must extinguish after the ESC system has been returned to its fully functional default mode.

S5.5.10 The "ESC Off" telltale need not illuminate when the vehicle is in a 4-wheel drive high gear locked differential configuration that has the effect of locking the drive gears at the front and rear axles together provided the vehicle meets the stability performance requirements of S5.2.1 and S5.2.2.
