
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.126 Standard No. 126; Electronic stability control systems for light vehicles.
####### ESC Malfunction Detection.

S7.10

S7.10.1 Simulate one or more ESC malfunction(s) by disconnecting the power source to any ESC component, or disconnecting any electrical connection between ESC components (with the vehicle power off). When simulating an ESC malfunction, the electrical connections for the telltale lamp(s) are not to be disconnected.

S7.10.2 With the vehicle initially stationary and the ignition locking system in the "Lock" or "Off" position, activate the ignition locking system to the "Start" position and start the engine. Place the vehicle in a forward gear and obtain a vehicle speed of 48 +/-8 km/h (30 +/-5 mph). Drive the vehicle for at least two minutes including at least one left and one right turning maneuver and at least one application of the service brake. Verify that within two minutes after obtaining this vehicle speed the ESC malfunction indicator illuminates in accordance with S5.3.

S7.10.3 As of September 1, 2011, stop the vehicle, deactivate the ignition locking system to the "Off" or "Lock" position. After a five-minute period, activate the vehicle's ignition locking system to the "Start" position and start the engine. Verify that the ESC malfunction indicator again illuminates to signal a malfunction and remains illuminated as long as the engine is running or until the fault is corrected.

S7.10.4 Deactivate the ignition locking system to the "Off" or "Lock" position. Restore the ESC system to normal operation, activate the ignition system to the "Start" position and start the engine. Place the vehicle in a forward gear and obtain a vehicle speed of 48 +/-8 km/h (30 +/-5 mph). Drive the vehicle for at least two minutes including at least one left and one right turning maneuver and at least one application of the service brake. Verify that within two minutes after obtaining this vehicle speed that the ESC malfunction indicator has extinguished.
