
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.126 Standard No. 126; Electronic stability control systems for light vehicles.
####### i.e.

S7.11.5.2 The "zeroing range" is defined as the 1.0 second time period prior to the instant the steering wheel rate exceeds 75 deg/sec (, the instant the steering wheel velocity exceeds 75 deg/sec defines the end of the "zeroing range").

S7.11.6 The Beginning of Steer (BOS) is defined as the first instance filtered and zeroed steering wheel angle data reaches -5 degrees (when the initial steering input is counterclockwise) or + 5 degrees (when the initial steering input is clockwise) after time defining the end of the "zeroing range." The value for time at the BOS is interpolated.

S7.11.7 The Completion of Steer (COS) is defined as the time the steering wheel angle returns to zero at the completion of the Sine with Dwell steering maneuver. The value for time at the zero degree steering wheel angle is interpolated.

S7.11.8 The second peak yaw rate is defined as the first local yaw rate peak produced by the reversal of the steering wheel. The yaw rates at 1.000 and 1.750 seconds after COS are determined by interpolation.

S7.11.9 Determine lateral velocity by integrating corrected, filtered and zeroed lateral acceleration data. Zero lateral velocity at BOS event. Determine lateral displacement by integrating zeroed lateral velocity. Zero lateral displacement at BOS event. Lateral displacement at 1.07 seconds from BOS event is determined by interpolation.

S8. Phase-in schedule.
