
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.131 Standard No. 131; School bus pedestrian safety devices.
####### Conspicuity.

S5.3The stop signal arm shall comply with either S5.3.1 or S5.3.2, or both.

S5.3.1 Except as provided in S5.3.1.1, S5.3.1.2, or S5.3.1.3, the entire surface of both sides of each stop signal arm shall be reflectorized with Type III retroreflectorized material that meets the minimum specific intensity requirements of S6.1 and Table I.

S.5.3.1.1 The legend of the retroreflective stop arm may be illuminated in a manner such that light is emitted from the surface of each letter or from the area immediately surrounding each letter. Only red lamps may be used. They shall form the complete shape of each letter of the legend, and shall be affixed to all letters (or to the areas immediately surrounding all letters) in the legend. The shape of each letter shall remain constant and, if the lamps are contained within each letter, the net stroke width (stroke width minus the width of the lamp(s)) of each letter of the legend, specified in S5.2.2, shall not be less than 15 mm (0.59 inch). When the stop arm is extended, the lamps shall flash at the rate specified in S6.2.2, with a current "on" time specified in S6.2.2.1. All lamps shall be positioned in one of the two following ways:

(1) centered within the stroke of each letter of the legend, or

(2) outlining each letter of the legend.

S5.3.1.2 Nonreflectorized mounting brackets, clips, bolts, or other components necessary to the mechanical or electrical operation of the stop signal arm shall not obscure more than 7.5 percent of the total surface area of either side of the stop signal arm.

S5.3.1.3 When two stop signal arms are installed on a school bus, the forward side of the rearmost stop signal arm shall not be reflectorized.

S5.3.2 Each side of the stop signal arm shall have at least two red lamps that meet the requirements of S6.2. The lamps shall be centered on the vertical centerline of the stop arm. One of the lamps shall be located at the extreme top of the stop arm and the other at its extreme bottom.

S5.4 The stop signal arm shall be installed on the left side of the bus.

S5.4.1 The stop signal arm shall be located such that, when in the extended position:

(a) The stop signal arm is perpendicular to the side of the bus, plus or minus five degrees;

(b) The top edge of the stop signal arm is parallel to and not more than 6 inches from a horizontal plane tangent to the lower edge of the frame of the passenger window immediately behind the driver's window; and

(c) The vertical centerline of the stop signal arm is not less than 9 inches away from the side of the school bus.

S5.4.2 A second stop signal arm may be installed on a school bus. That stop signal arm shall comply with S5.4 and S5.4.1.

S5.5 The stop signal arm shall be automatically extended in such a manner that it complies with S5.4.1, at a minimum whenever the red signal lamps required by S5.1.4 of Standard No. 108 are activated; except that a device may be installed that prevents the automatic extension of a stop signal arm. The mechanism for activating the device shall be within the reach of the driver. While the device is activated, a continuous or intermittent signal audible to the driver shall sound. The audible signal may be equipped with a timing device requiring the signal to sound for at least 60 seconds. If a timing device is used, it shall automatically recycle every time the service entry door is opened while the engine is running and the manual override is engaged.
