
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### Labeling.

S5.5.5.(a) Each visual indicator shall display a word or words in accordance with the requirements of Standard No. 101 (49 CFR 571.101) and this section, which shall be legible to the driver under all daytime and nighttime conditions when activated. Unless otherwise specified, the words shall have letters not less than 3.2 mm (inch) high and the letters and background shall be of contrasting colors, one of which is red. Words or symbols in addition to those required by Standard No. 101 and this section may be provided for purposes of clarity.

(b) Vehicles manufactured with a split service brake system may use a common brake warning indicator to indicate two or more of the functions described in S5.5.1(a) through S5.5.1(g). If a common indicator is used, it shall display the word "Brake."

(c) A vehicle manufactured without a split service brake system shall use a separate indicator to indicate the failure condition in S5.5.1(a). This indicator shall display the words "STOP-BRAKE FAILURE" in block capital letters not less than 6.4 mm (inch) in height.

(d) If separate indicators are used for one or more of the conditions described in S5.5.1(a) through S5.5.1(g), the indicators shall display the following wording:

(1) If a separate indicator is provided for the low brake fluid condition in S5.5.1(a)(1), the words "Brake Fluid" shall be used except for vehicles using hydraulic system mineral oil.

(2) If a separate indicator is provided for the gross loss of pressure condition in S5.5.1(a)(2), the words "Brake Pressure" shall be used.

(3) If a separate indicator is provided for the condition specified in S5.5.1(b), the letters and background shall be of contrasting colors, one of which is yellow. The indicator shall be labeled with the words "Antilock" or "Anti-lock" or "ABS"; or "Brake Proportioning," in accordance with Table 1 of Standard No. 101.

(4) If a separate indicator is provided for application of the parking brake as specified for S5.5.1(c), the single word "Park" or the words "Parking Brake" may be used.

(5) If a separate indicator is provided to indicate brake lining wear-out as specified in S5.5.1(d), the words "Brake Wear" shall be used.

(6) If a separate indicator is provided for the condition specified in S5.5.1(g), the letters and background shall be of contrasting colors, one of which is yellow. The indicator shall be labeled with the symbol "RBS." RBS failure in a system that is part of the service brake system may also be indicated by a yellow lamp that also indicates "ABS" failure and displays the symbol "ABS/RBS."

(7) If a separate indicator is provided for any other function, the display shall include the word "Brake" and the appropriate additional labeling.
