
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### State of charge of batteries for EVs.

S6.3.11

S6.3.11.1 The state of charge of the propulsion batteries is determined in accordance with SAE Recommended Practice J227a (1976) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5). The applicable sections of J227a (1976) are 3.2.1 through 3.2.4, 3.3.1 through 3.3.2.2, 3.4.1 and 3.4.2, 4.2.1, 5.2, 5.2.1 and 5.3.

S6.3.11.2 At the beginning of the burnish procedure (S7.1 of this standard) in the test sequence, each propulsion battery is at the maximum state of charge recommended by the manufacturer, as stated in the vehicle operator's manual or on a label that is permanently attached to the vehicle, of, if the manufacturer has made no recommendation, not less than 95 percent. During the 200-stop burnish procedure, the propulsion batteries are restored to the maximum state of charge determined as above, after each increment of 40 burnish stops until the burnish procedure is complete. The batteries may be charged at a more frequent interval during a particular 40-stop increment only if the EV is incapable of achieving the initial burnish test speed during that increment. During the burnish procedure, the propulsion batteries may be charged by external means or replaced by batteries that are at a state of charge of not less than 95 percent. For an EV having a manual control for setting the level of regenerative braking, the manual control, at the beginning of the burnish procedure, is set to provide maximum regenerative braking throughout the burnish.

S6.3.11.3 At the beginning of each performance test in the test sequence (S7.2 through S7.17 of this standard), unless otherwise specified, an EV's propulsion batteries are at the state of charge recommended by the manufacturer, as stated in the vehicle operator's manual or on a label that is permanently attached to the vehicle, or, if the manufacturer has made no recommendation, at a state of charge of not less than 95 percent. No further charging of any propulsion battery occurs during any of the performance tests in the test sequence of this standard. If the propulsion batteries are depleted during a test sequence such that the vehicle reaches automatic shut-down, will not accelerate, or the low state of charge brake warning lamp is illuminated, the vehicle is to be accelerated to brake test speed by auxiliary means. If a battery is replaced rather than recharged, the replacement battery shall be charged and measured for state of charge in accordance with these procedures.
