
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### State of charge of batteries for electrically-actuated service brakes.

S6.3.12A vehicle equipped with electrically-actuated service brakes also performs the following test series. Conduct 10 stopping tests from a speed of 100 kph or the maximum vehicle speed, whichever is less. At least two of the 10 stopping distances must be less than or equal to 70 meters. The vehicle is loaded to GVWR and the transmission is in the neutral position when the service brake control is actuated and throughout the remainder of the test. Each battery providing power to the electrically-actuated service brakes, shall be in a depleted state of charge for conditions (a), (b), or (c) of this paragraph as appropriate. An auxiliary means may be used to accelerate an EV to test speed.

(a) For an EV equipped with electrically-actuated service brakes deriving power from the propulsion batteries and with automatic shut-down capability of the propulsion motor(s), the propulsion batteries are at not more than five percent above the EV actual automatic shut-down critical value. The critical value is determined by measuring the state-of-charge of each propulsion battery at the instant that automatic shut-down occurs.

(b) For an EV equipped with electrically-actuated service brakes deriving power from the propulsion batteries and with no automatic shut-down capability of the propulsion motor(s), the propulsion batteries are at an average of not more than five percent above the actual state of charge at which the brake failure warning signal, required by S5.5.1(e) of this standard, is illuminated.

(c) For a vehicle which has one or more auxiliary batteries that provides electrical energy to operate the electrically-actuated service brakes, each auxiliary battery is at not more than five percent above the actual state of charge at which the brake failure warning signal, required by S5.5.1(e) of this standard, is illuminated.
