
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### General information.

S7.2.1(a) The purpose of this test is to ensure that lockup of both front wheels occurs either simultaneously with, or at a lower deceleration rate than, the lockup of both rear wheels, when tested on road surfaces affording adhesion such that wheel lockup of the first axle occurs at a braking ratio of between 0.15 and 0.80, inclusive.

(b) This test is for vehicles without antilock brake systems.

(c) This wheel lock sequence test is to be used as a screening test to evaluate a vehicle's axle lockup sequence and to determine whether the torque wheel test in S7.4 must be conducted.

(d) For this test, a simultaneous lockup of the front and rear wheels refers to the conditions when the time interval between the first occurrence of lockup of the last (second) wheel on the rear axle and the first occurrence of lockup of the last (second) wheel on the front axle is &#x2264;0.1 second for vehicle speeds >15 km/h (9.3 mph).

(e) A front or rear axle lockup is defined as the point in time when the last (second) wheel on an axle locks up.

(f) Vehicles that lock their front axle simultaneously or at lower deceleration rates than their rear axle need not be tested to the torque wheel procedure.

(g) Vehicles which lock their rear axle at deceleration rates lower than the front axle shall also be tested in accordance with the torque wheel procedure in S7.4.

(h) Any determination of noncompliance for failing adhesion utilization requirements shall be based on torque wheel test results.
