
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### Test Conditions and Procedures.

S7.2.3.(a) IBT: &#x2264;65 &#xB0;C (149 &#xB0;F), &#x2264;100 &#xB0;C (212 &#xB0;F).

(b) Test speed: 65 km/h (40.4 mph) for a braking ratio &#x2264;0.50; 100 km/h (62.1 mph) for a braking ratio >0.50.

(c) Pedal force:

(1) Pedal force is applied and controlled by the vehicle driver or by a mechanical brake pedal actuator.

(2) Pedal force is increased at a linear rate such that the first axle lockup occurs no less than one-half (0.5) second and no more than one and one-half (1.5) seconds after the initial application of the pedal.

(3) The pedal is released when the second axle locks, or when the pedal force reaches 1kN (225 lbs), or 0.1 seconds after first axle lockup, whichever occurs first.

(d) Wheel lockup: Only wheel lockups above a vehicle speed of 15 km/h (9.3 mph) are considered in determining the results of this test.

(e) Test surfaces: This test is conducted, for each loading condition, on two different test surfaces that will result in a braking ratio of between 0.15 and 0.80, inclusive. NHTSA reserves the right to choose the test surfaces to be used based on adhesion utilization curves or any other method of determining "worst case" conditions.

(f) The data recording equipment shall have a minimum sampling rate of 40 Hz.

(g) Data to be recorded. The following information must be automatically recorded in phase continuously throughout each test run such that values of the variables can be cross referenced in real time.

(1) Vehicle speed.

(2) Brake pedal force.

(3) Angular velocity at each wheel.

(4) Actual instantaneous vehicle deceleration or the deceleration calculated by differentiation of the vehicle speed.

(h) Speed channel filtration. For analog instrumentation, the speed channel shall be filtered by using a low-pass filter having a cut-off frequency of less than one fourth the sampling rate.

(i) Test procedure. For each test surface, three runs meeting the pedal force application and time for wheel lockup requirements shall be made. Up to a total of six runs will be allowed to obtain three valid runs. Only the first three valid runs obtained shall be used for data analysis purposes.
