
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### Performance requirements.

S7.2.4.(a) In order to pass this test a vehicle shall be capable of meeting the test requirements on all test surfaces that will result in a braking ratio of between 0.15 and 0.80, inclusive.

(b) If all three valid runs on each surface result in the front axle locking before or simultaneously with the rear axle, or the front axle locks up with only one or no wheels locking on the rear axle, the torque wheel procedure need not be run, and the vehicle is considered to meet the adhesion utilization requirements of this Standard. This performance requirement shall be met for all vehicle braking ratios between 0.15 and 0.80.

(c) If any one of the three valid runs on any surface results in the rear axle locking before the front axle or the rear axle locks up with only one or no wheels locking on the front axle the torque wheel procedure shall be performed. This performance requirement shall be met for all vehicle braking ratios between 0.15 and 0.80.

(d) If any one of the three valid runs on any surface results in neither axle locking (i.e., only one or no wheels locked on each axle) before a pedal force of 1kN (225 lbs) is reached, the vehicle shall be tested to the torque wheel procedure.

(e) If the conditions listed in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section occur, vehicle compliance shall be determined from the results of a torquesults of a torque wheel test performed in accordance with S7.4.

(f) An EV with RBS that is part of the service brake system shall meet the performance requirements over the entire normal operating range of the RBS.
