
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### Data reduction.

S7.4.4.(a) The data from each brake application under S7.4.3 is filtered using a five-point, on-center moving average for each data channel.

(b) For each brake application under S7.4.3 determine the slope (brake factor) and pressure axis intercept (brake hold-off pressure) of the linear least squares equation best describing the measured torque output at each braked wheel as a function of measured line pressure applied at the same wheel. Only torque output values obtained from data collected when the vehicle deceleration is within the range of 0.15g to 0.80g are used in the regression analysis.

(c) Average the results of paragraph (b) of this section to calculate the average brake factor and brake hold-off pressure for all brake applications for the front axle.

(d) Average the results of paragraph (b) of this section to calculate the average brake factor and brake hold-off pressure for all brake applications for the rear axle.

(e) Using the relationship between front and rear brake line pressure determined in S7.4.3(i) and the tire rolling radius, calculate the braking force at each axle as a function of front brake line pressure.

(f) Calculate the braking ratio of the vehicle as a function of the front brake line pressure using the following equation:

(g) Calculate the adhesion utilized at each axle as a function of braking ratio using the following equations:

(h) Plot fand fobtained in (g) as a function of z, for both GVWR and LLVW load conditions. These are the adhesion utilization curves for the vehicle, which are compared to the performance requirements in S7.4.5. shown graphically in Figure 2:
