
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### Test conditions and procedures.

S7.4.3.(a) IBT: &#x2264;65 &#xB0;C (149 &#xB0;F), &#x2264;100 &#xB0;C (212 &#xB0;F).

(b) Test speeds: 100 km/h (62.1 mph), and 50 km/h (31.1 mph).

(c) Pedal force: Pedal force is increased at a linear rate between 100 and 150 N/sec (22.5 and 33.7 lbs/sec) for the 100 km/h test speed, or between 100 and 200 N/sec (22.5 and 45.0 lbs/sec) for the 50 km/h test speed, until the first axle locks or until a pedal force of 1 kN (225 lbs) is reached, whichever occurs first.

(d) Cooling: Between brake applications, the vehicle is driven at speeds up to 100 km/h (62.1 mph) until the IBT specified in S7.4.3(a) is reached.

(e) Number of runs: With the vehicle at LLVW, run five stops from a speed of 100 km/h (62.1 mph) and five stops from a speed of 50 km/h (31.1 mph), while alternating between the two test speeds after each stop. With the vehicle at GVWR, repeat the five stops at each test speed while alternating between the two test speeds.

(f) Test surface: PFC of at least 1.02.

(g) Data to be recorded. The following information must be automatically recorded in phase continuously throughout each test run such that values of the variables can be cross referenced in real time:

(1) Vehicle speed.

(2) Brake pedal force.

(3) Angular velocity at each wheel.

(4) Brake torque at each wheel.

(5) Hydraulic brake line pressure in each brake circuit. Hydraulically proportioned circuits shall be fitted with transducers on at least one front wheel and one rear wheel downstream of the operative proportioning or pressure limiting valve(s).

(6) Vehicle deceleration.

(h) Sample rate: All data acquisition and recording equipment shall support a minimum sample rate of 40 Hz on all channels.

(i) Determination of front versus rear brake pressure. Determine the front versus rear brake pressure relationship over the entire range of line pressures. Unless the vehicle has a variable brake proportioning system, this determination is made by static test. If the vehicle has a variable brake proportioning system, dynamic tests are run with the vehicle both empty and loaded. 15 snubs from 50 km/h (31.1 mph) are made for each of the two load conditions, using the same initial conditions specified in this section.
