
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### Test conditions and procedures.

S7.11.3.(a) IBT: &#x2264;65 &#xB0;C (149 &#xB0;F), &#x2264;100 &#xB0;C (212 &#xB0;F).

(b) Test speed: 100 km/h (62.1 mph).

(c) Pedal force: &#x2264;65 N (14.6 lbs), &#x2264;500 N (112.4 lbs).

(d) Wheel lockup: No lockup of any wheel for longer than 0.1 seconds allowed at speeds greater than 15 km/h (9.3 mph).

(e) Number of runs: 6 stops.

(f) Test surface: PFC of 1.02.

(g) Disconnect the primary source of power for one brake power assist unit or brake power unit, or one of the brake power unit or brake power assist unit subsystems if two or more subsystems are provided.

(h) If the brake power unit or power assist unit operates in conjunction with a backup system and the backup system is automatically activated in the event of a primary power service failure, the backup system is operative during this test.

(i) Exhaust any residual brake power reserve capability of the disconnected system.

(j) Make each of the 6 stops by a continuous application of the service brake control.

(k) Restore the system to normal at completion of this test.

(l) For vehicles equipped with more than one brake power unit or brake power assist unit, conduct tests for each in turn.

(m) For vehicles with electrically-actuated service brakes (brake power unit), this test is conducted with any single electrical failure in the electrically-actuated service brakes instead of a failure of any other brake power or brake power assist unit, and all other systems intact.
