
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### Test conditions and procedures.

S7.10.3.(a) IBT: &#x2264;65 &#xB0;C (149 &#xB0;F), &#x2264;100 &#xB0;C (212 &#xB0;F).

(b) Test speed: 100 km/h (62.1 mph).

(c) Pedal force: &#x2264;65N (14.6 lbs), &#x2264;500 N (112.4 lbs).

(d) Wheel lockup: No lockup of any wheel for longer than 0.1 seconds allowed at speeds greater than 15 km/h (9.3 mph).

(e) Test surface: PFC of 1.02.

(f) Alter the service brake system to produce any single failure. For a hydraulic circuit, this may be any single rupture or leakage type failure, other than a structural failure of a housing that is common to two or more subsystems. For a vehicle in which the brake signal is transmitted electrically between the brake pedal and some or all of the foundation brakes, regardless of the means of actuation of the foundation brakes, this may be any single failure in any circuit that electrically transmits the brake signal. For an EV with RBS that is part of the service brake system, this may be any single failure in the RBS.

(g) Determine the control force pressure level or fluid level (as appropriate for the indicator being tested) necessary to activate the brake warning indicator.

(h) Number of runs: After the brake warning indicator has been activated, make the following stops depending on the type of brake system:

(1) 4 stops for a split service brake system.

(2) 10 consecutive stops for a non-split service brake system.

(i) Each stop is made by a continuous application of the service brake control.

(j) Restore the service brake system to normal at the completion of this test.

(k) Repeat the entire sequence for each of the other subsystems.
