
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### Test conditions and procedures.

S7.12.2.

(a) IBT:

(1) Parking brake systems utilizing service brake friction materials shall be tested with the IBT &#x2264;100 &#xB0;C (212 &#xB0;F) and shall have no additional burnishing or artificial heating prior to the start of the parking brake test.

(2) Parking brake systems utilizing non-service brake friction materials shall be tested with the friction materials at ambient temperature at the start of the test. The friction materials shall have no additional burnishing or artificial heating prior to or during the parking brake test.

(b) Parking brake control force: Hand control &#x2264;400 N (89.9 lbs); foot control &#x2264;500 N (112.4 lbs).

(c) Hand force measurement locations: The force required for actuation of a hand-operated brake system is measured at the center of the hand grip area or at a distance of 40 mm (1.57 in) from the end of the actuation lever as illustrated in Figure 3.

(d) Parking brake applications: 1 application and up to 2 reapplications, if necessary.

(e) Test surface gradient: 20% grade.

(f) Drive the vehicle onto the grade with the longitudinal axis of the vehicle in the direction of the slope of the grade.

(g) Stop the vehicle and hold it stationary by applying the service brake control and place the transmission in neutral.

(h) With the service brake applied sufficiently to just keep the vehicle from rolling, apply the parking brake as specified in S7.12.2(i) or S7.12.2(j).

(i) For a vehicle equipped with mechanically-applied parking brakes, make a single application of the parking brake control with a force not exceeding the limits specified in S7.12.2(b). For a vehicle using an electrically-activated parking brake, apply the parking brake by activating the parking brake control.

(j) In the case of a parking brake system that does not allow application of the specified force in a single application, a series of applications may be made to achieve the specified force.

(k) Following the application of the parking brakes, release all force on the service brake control and, if the vehicle remains stationary, start the measurement of time.

(l) If the vehicle does not remain stationary, reapplication of a force to the parking brake control at the level specified in S7.12.2(b) as appropriate for the vehicle being tested (without release of the ratcheting or other holding mechanism of the parking brake) is used up to two times to attain a stationary position.

(m) Verify the operation of the parking brake application indicator.

(n) Following observation of the vehicle in a stationary condition for the specified time in one direction, repeat the same test procedure with the vehicle orientation in the opposite direction on the same grade.
