
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.135 Standard No. 135; Light vehicle brake systems.
####### Test conditions and procedures.

S7.14.3.(a) IBT: Temperature achieved at completion of heating snubs.

(b) Test speed: 100 km/h (62.1 mph).

(c) Pedal force:

(1) The first stop is done with an average pedal force not greater than the average pedal force recorded during the shortest GVWR cold effectiveness stop.

(2) The second stop is done with a pedal force not greater than 500 N (112.4 lbs).

(d) Wheel lockup: No lockup of any wheel for longer than 0.1 seconds allowed at speeds greater than 15 km/h (9.3 mph).

(e) Number of runs: 2 stops.

(f) Immediately after the 15th heating snub, accelerate to 100 km/h (62.1 mph) and commence the first stop of the hot performance test.

(g) If the vehicle is incapable of attaining 100 km/h, it is tested at the same speed used for the GVWR cold effectiveness test.

(h) Immediately after completion of the first hot performance stop, accelerate as rapidly as possible to the specified test speed and conduct the second hot performance stop.

(i) Immediately after completion of the second hot performance stop, drive 1.5 km (0.93 mi) at 50 km/h (31.1 mph) before the first cooling stop.
