
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.136 Standard No. 136; Electronic stability control systems for heavy vehicles.
####### J-Turn Test Maneuver Test Course.

S6.2.4The test course for the J-Turn test maneuver is used for the Reference Speed Test in S7.7.1, the Engine Torque Reduction Test in S7.7.2, and the Roll Stability Control Test in S7.7.3.

S6.2.4.1 The test course consists of a straight entrance lane with a length of 22.9 meters (75 feet) tangentially connected to a curved lane section with a radius of 45.7 meters (150 feet) measured from the center of the lane.

S6.2.4.2 For truck tractors, the lane width of the test course is 3.7 meters (12 feet). At the manufacturer's option, for truck tractors with a wheelbase equal to or greater than 7112 mm (280 inches) the lane width of the test course is 3.7 meters (12 feet) for the straight section and is 4.3 meters (14 feet) for the curved section. For buses, the lane width of the test course is 3.7 meters (12 feet) for the straight section and is 4.3 meters (14 feet) for the curved section.

S6.2.4.3 The start gate is the tangent point on the radius (the intersection of the straight lane and the curved lane sections) and is designated as zero degrees of radius of arc angle. The end gate is the point on the radius that is 120 degrees of radius arc angle measured from the tangent point.

S6.2.4.4 Figure 1 shows the test course with the curved lane section configured in the counter-clockwise steering direction relative to the entrance lane. The course is also arranged with the curved lane section configured in the clockwise steering direction relative to the entrance lane. The cones depicted in Figure 1 defining the lane width are positioned solely for illustrative purposes.
