
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.136 Standard No. 136; Electronic stability control systems for heavy vehicles.
####### ESC Malfunction Detection.

S5.4Each vehicle must be equipped with an indicator lamp, mounted in front of and in clear view of the driver, which is activated whenever there is a malfunction that affects the generation or transmission of control or response signals in the vehicle's electronic stability control system.

S5.4.1 Except as provided in S5.4.3 and S5.4.6, the ESC malfunction telltale must illuminate only when a malfunction exists and must remain continuously illuminated for as long as the malfunction exists, whenever the ignition locking system is in the "On" ("Run") position.

S5.4.2 The ESC malfunction telltale must be identified by the symbol shown for "Electronic Stability Control System Malfunction" or the specified words or abbreviations listed in Table 1 of Standard No. 101 (ยง 571.101).

S5.4.3 The ESC malfunction telltale must be activated as a check-of-lamp function either when the ignition locking system is turned to the "On" ("Run") position when the engine is not running, or when the ignition locking system is in a position between the "On" ("Run") and "Start" that is designated by the manufacturer as a check-light position.

S5.4.4 The ESC malfunction telltale need not be activated when a starter interlock is in operation.

S5.4.5 The ESC malfunction telltale lamp must extinguish at the next ignition cycle after the malfunction has been corrected.

S5.4.6 The manufacturer may use the ESC malfunction telltale in a flashing mode to indicate ESC operation.
