
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.136 Standard No. 136; Electronic stability control systems for heavy vehicles.
####### Preliminary Reference Speed Determination.

S7.7.1.1The vehicle is subjected to two series of test runs using the J-Turn test maneuver at increasing entrance speeds. One series uses clockwise steering, and the other series uses counterclockwise steering. The entrance speed of a test run is the 0.5 second average of the raw speed data prior to any ESC system activation of the service brakes and rounded to the nearest 1.0 mph. During each test run, the driver attempts to maintain the selected entrance speed throughout the J-Turn test maneuver. For the first test run of each series, the entrance speed is 32 km/h +/-1.6 km/h (20 mph +/-1.0 mph) and is incremented 1.6 km/h (1.0 mph) for each subsequent test run until ESC service brake application occurs or any of the truck tractor's or bus's wheels departs the lane. The vehicle entrance speed at which ESC service brake application occurs is the Preliminary Reference Speed. The Preliminary Reference Speed is determined for each direction: Clockwise steering and counter-clockwise steering. During any test run, if any of the wheels of the truck tractor or bus depart the lane at any point within the first 120 degrees of radius arc angle, the test run is repeated at the same entrance speed. If any of the wheels of the truck tractor or bus depart the lane again, then four consecutive test runs are repeated at the same entrance speed (+/-1.6 km/h (+/-1.0 mph)).
