
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.136 Standard No. 136; Electronic stability control systems for heavy vehicles.
####### Engine Torque Reduction Test.

S7.7.2The vehicle is subjected to two series of test runs using the J-Turn test maneuver at an entrance speed equal to the Reference Speed determined in S7.7.1.2. One series uses clockwise steering, and the other series uses counter-clockwise steering. Each series consists of four test runs with the vehicle at an entrance speed equal to the Reference Speed and the driver fully depressing the accelerator pedal from the time when the vehicle crosses the start gate until the vehicle reaches the end gate. ESC engine torque reduction is confirmed by comparing the engine torque output and driver requested torque data collected from the vehicle communication network or CAN bus. During the initial stages of each maneuver the two torque signals with respect to time will parallel each other. Upon ESC engine torque reduction, the two signals will diverge when the ESC system causes a commanded engine torque reduction and the driver depresses the accelerator pedal attempting to accelerate the vehicle.

S7.7.2.1 Perform two series of test runs using the J-Turn test maneuver at the Reference Speed determined in S7.7.1.2 (+/-1.6 km/h (+/-1.0 mph)). The first series consists of four consecutive test runs performed using counter-clockwise steering. The second series consists of four consecutive test runs performed using clockwise steering. During each test run, the driver fully depresses the accelerator pedal from the time when the vehicle crosses the start gate until the vehicle reaches the end gate.

S7.7.2.2 During each of the engine torque reduction test runs, verify the commanded engine torque and the driver requested torque signals diverge according to the criteria specified in S5.3.2.1.
