
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.136 Standard No. 136; Electronic stability control systems for heavy vehicles.
####### Roll Stability Control Test.

S7.7.3The vehicle is subjected to multiple series of test runs using the J-Turn test maneuver in both the clockwise and the counter-clockwise direction.

S7.7.3.1 Before each test run, the brake temperatures are monitored and the hottest brake is confirmed to be between 66 &#xB0;C (150 &#xB0;F) and 204 &#xB0;C (400 &#xB0;F). If the hottest brake temperature is not between 66 &#xB0;C (150 &#xB0;F) and 204 &#xB0;C (400 &#xB0;F), the brake temperature is adjusted in accordance with S7.4.2.

S7.7.3.2 During each test run, the driver will release the accelerator pedal after the ESC system has slowed vehicle by more than 4.8 km/h (3.0 mph) below the entrance speed.

S7.7.3.3 The maximum test speed is the greater of 130 percent of the Reference Speed (see S7.7.1.2) or 48 km/h (30 mph). The maximum test speed is determined for each direction: clockwise steering and counter-clockwise steering.

S7.7.3.4 For each series of Roll Stability Control test runs, the vehicle will perform eight consecutive test runs at the same entrance speed, which is any speed between 48 km/h (30 mph) and the maximum test speed determined according to S7.7.3.3.

S7.7.3.5 Upon completion of testing, post processing is done as specified in S7.9.
