
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.138 Standard No. 138; Tire pressure monitoring systems.
####### TPMS malfunction detection.

(l)

(1) Drive the vehicle for up to 15 minutes of cumulative time (not necessarily continuously) along any portion of the test course.

(2) Reverse direction on the course and drive the vehicle for an additional period of time for a total cumulative time of 20 minutes (including the time in S6(l)(1), and not necessarily continuously).

(3) The sum of the total cumulative drive time under paragraphs S6(l)(1) and (2) shall be the lesser of 20 minutes or the time at which the TPMS malfunction telltale illuminates.

(4) If the TPMS malfunction indicator did not illuminate in accordance with paragraph S4.4, as required, discontinue the test.

(m) If the TPMS malfunction indicator illuminated during the procedure in paragraph S6(l), deactivate the ignition locking system to the "Off" or "Lock" position. After a 5-minute period, activate the vehicle's ignition locking system to the "On" ("Run") position. The TPMS malfunction indicator must again signal a malfunction and remain illuminated as long as the ignition locking system is in the "On" ("Run") position.

(n) Restore the TPMS to normal operation. If necessary, drive the vehicle until the telltale has extinguished.

(o) The test may be repeated using the test procedures in paragraphs S6(k)-(n), with each such test limited to simulation of a single malfunction.
