
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.138 Standard No. 138; Tire pressure monitoring systems.
####### System detection phase.

(f)

(1) Within 5 minutes of reducing the inflation pressure in the tire(s), drive the vehicle for up to 10-15 minutes of cumulative time (not necessarily continuously) along any portion of the test course.

(2) Reverse direction on the course and drive the vehicle for an additional period of time for a total cumulative time of 20 minutes (including the time in S6(f)(1), and not necessarily continuously).

(3) The sum of the total cumulative drive time under paragraphs S6(f)(1) and (2) shall be the lesser of 20 minutes or the time at which the low tire pressure telltale illuminates.

(4) If the low tire pressure telltale did not illuminate, discontinue the test.

(g) If the low tire pressure telltale illuminated during the procedure in paragraph S6(f), deactivate the ignition locking system to the "Off" or "Lock" position. After a 5-minute period, activate the vehicle's ignition locking system to the "On" ("Run") position. The telltale must illuminate and remain illuminated as long as the ignition locking system is in the "On" ("Run") position.

(h) Keep the vehicle stationary for a period of up to one hour with the engine off.

(i) Inflate all of the vehicle's tires to the same inflation pressure used in paragraph S6(a). If the vehicle's tire pressure monitoring system has a manual reset feature, reset the system in accordance with the instructions specified in the vehicle owner's manual. Determine whether the telltale has extinguished. If necessary, drive the vehicle until the telltale has been extinguished.

(j) The test may be repeated, using the test procedures in paragraphs S6(a)-(b) and S6(d)-(i), with any one, two, three, or four of the tires on the vehicle under-inflated.

(k) Simulate one TPMS malfunction by disconnecting the power source to any TPMS component, disconnecting any electrical connection between TPMS components, or installing a tire or wheel on the vehicle that is incompatible with the TPMS. When simulating a TPMS malfunction, the electrical connections for the telltale lamps are not to be disconnected.
