
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.139 Standard No. 139; New pneumatic radial tires for light vehicles.
####### Tire and rim matching information.

S4.

S4.1. Each manufacturer of tires must ensure that a listing of the rims that may be used with each tire that it produces is provided to the public in accordance with S4.1.1 and S4.1.2.

S4.1.1 Each rim listing for a tire must include dimensional specifications and a diagram of the rim and must be in one of the following forms:

(a) Listed by manufacturer name or brand name in a document furnished to dealers of the manufacturer's tires, to any person upon request, and in duplicate to the Docket Section (No. NHTSA-2009-0117), National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, West Building, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20590; or

(b) Contained in publications, current at the date of manufacture of the tire or any later date, of at least one of the following organizations:

(1) The Tire and Rim Association.

(2) The European Tyre and Rim Technical Organization.

(3) Japan Automobile Tire Manufacturers' Association, Inc.

(4) Tyre & Rim Association of Australia.

(5) Associacao Latino Americana de Pneus e Aros (Brazil).

(6) South African Bureau of Standards.

S4.1.2 A listing compiled in accordance with paragraph (a) of S4.1.1 need not include dimensional specifications or a diagram of a rim whose dimensional specifications and diagram are contained in a listing published in accordance with paragraph (b) of S4.1.1.

S4.2. Information contained in a publication specified in S4.1.1(b) that lists general categories of tires and rims by size designation, type of construction, and/or intended use, is considered to be manufacturer's information required by S4.1 for the listed tires, unless the publication itself or specific information provided according to S4.1(a) indicates otherwise.
