
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.139 Standard No. 139; New pneumatic radial tires for light vehicles.
####### Tires manufactured on or after September 1, 2009.

(b)Each tire must be labeled with the tire identification number required by 49 CFR part 574 on the intended outboard sidewall of the tire. Except for retreaded tires, either the tire identification number or a partial tire identification number, containing all characters in the tire identification number, except for the date code and, at the discretion of the manufacturer, any optional code, must be labeled on the other sidewall of the tire. Except for retreaded tires, if a tire does not have an intended outboard sidewall, the tire must be labeled with the tire identification number required by 49 CFR part 574 on one sidewall and with either the tire identification number or a partial tire identification number, containing all characters in the tire identification number except for the date code and, at the discretion of the manufacturer, any optional code, on the other sidewall.

S5.5.2 [Reserved]

S5.5.3 Each tire must be labeled with the name of the manufacturer, or brand name and number assigned to the manufacturer in the manner specified in 49 CFR part 574.

S5.5.4 For passenger car tires, if the maximum inflation pressure of a tire is 240, 280, 300, 340, or 350 kPa, then:

(a) Each marking of that inflation pressure pursuant to S5.5(c) must be followed in parenthesis by the equivalent psi, rounded to the next higher whole number; and

(b) Each marking of the tire's maximum load rating pursuant to S5.5(d) in kilograms must be followed in parenthesis by the equivalent load rating in pounds, rounded to the nearest whole number.

S5.5.5 If the maximum inflation pressure of a tire is 420 kPa (60 psi), the tire must have permanently molded into or onto both sidewalls, in letters and numerals not less thaninch high, the words "Inflate to 60 psi" or "Inflate to 420 kPa (60 psi)." On both sidewalls, the words must be positioned in an area between the tire shoulder and the bead of the tire. However, the words must be also positioned on the tire so that they are not obstructed by the flange of any rim designated for use with that tire in this standard or in Standard No. 110 (ยง 571.110 of this part).

S5.5.6 For LT tires, the maximum permissible inflation pressure shown must be the inflation pressure that corresponds to the maximum load of the tire for the tire size as specified in one of the publications described in S4.1.1.(b) of ยง 571.139. At the manufacturer's option, the shown inflation pressure may be as much as 10 psi (69 kPa) greater than the inflation pressure corresponding to the specified maximum load.
