
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.139 Standard No. 139; New pneumatic radial tires for light vehicles.
####### Performance Requirements.

S6.1.2The actual section width and overall width for each tire measured in accordance with S6.1.1.2 shall not exceed the section width specified in a submission made by an individual manufacturer, pursuant to S4.1.1(a) or in one of the publications described in S4.1.1(b) for its size designation and type by more than:

(a) (For tires with a maximum permissible inflation pressure of 32, 36, or 40 psi) 7 percent, or

(b) (For tires with a maximum permissible inflation pressure of 240, 280, 300, 340 or 350 kPa) 7 percent or 10 mm (0.4 inches), whichever is larger.

S6.2.1.1.1 Mount the tire on a test rim and inflate it to the pressure specified for the tire in the following table:

S6.2.1.1.2 Condition the assembly at 32 to 38 &#xB0;C for not less than 3 hours.

S6.2.1.1.3 Before or after mounting the assembly on a test axle, readjust the tire pressure to that specified in S6.2.1.1.1.

S6.2.1.2.1 Press the assembly against the outer face of a test drum with a diameter of 1.70 m +/-1%.

S6.2.1.2.2 Apply to the test axle a load equal to 85% of the tire's maximum load carrying capacity.

S6.2.1.2.3 Break-in the tire by running it for 2 hours at 80 km/h.

S6.2.1.2.4 Allow tire to cool to 38 &#xB0;C and readjust inflation pressure to applicable pressure in 6.2.1.1.1 immediately before the test.

S6.2.1.2.5 Throughout the test, the inflation pressure is not corrected and the test load is maintained at the value applied in S6.2.1.2.2.

S6.2.1.2.6 During the test, the ambient temperature, measured at a distance of not less than 150 mm and not more than 1 m from the tire, is maintained at not less than 32 &#xB0;C or more than 38 &#xB0;C.

S6.2.1.2.7 The test is conducted, continuously and uninterrupted, for ninety minutes through three thirty-minute consecutive test stages at the following speeds: 140, 150, and 160 km/h.

S6.2.1.2.8 Allow the tire to cool for between 15 minutes and 25 minutes. Measure its inflation pressure. Then, deflate the tire, remove it from the test rim, and inspect it for the conditions specified in S6.2.2(a).

S6.2.2 Performance requirements. When the tire is tested in accordance with S6.2.1:

(a) There shall be no visual evidence of tread, sidewall, ply, cord, innerliner, belt or bead separation, chunking, open splices, cracking, or broken cords.

(b) The tire pressure, when measured at any time between 15 minutes and 25 minutes after the end of the test, shall not be less than 95% of the initial pressure specified in S6.2.1.1.1.

S6.3.1.1.1 Mount the tire on a test rim and inflate it to the pressure specified for the tire in the following table:

S6.3.1.1.2 Condition the assembly at 32 to 38 &#xB0;C for not less than 3 hours.

S6.3.1.1.3 Readjust the pressure to the value specified in S6.3.1.1.1 immediately before testing.

S6.3.1.2.1 Mount the assembly on a test axle and press it against the outer face of a smooth wheel having a diameter of 1.70 m +/-1%.

S6.3.1.2.2 During the test, the ambient temperature, at a distance of not less than 150 mm and not more than 1 m from the tire, is maintained at not less than 32 &#xB0;C or more than 38 &#xB0;C.

S6.3.1.2.3 Conduct the test, without interruptions, at the test speed of not less than 120 km/h with loads and test periods not less than those shown in the following table. For snow tires, conduct the test at not less than 110 km/h.

S6.3.1.2.4 Throughout the test, the inflation pressure is not corrected and the test loads are maintained at the value corresponding to each test period, as shown in the table in S6.3.1.2.3.

S6.3.1.2.5 Allow the tire to cool for between 15 minutes and 25 minutes after running the tire for the time specified in the table in S6.3.1.2.3, measure its inflation pressure. Inspect the tire externally on the test rim for the conditions specified in S6.3.2(a).

S6.3.2 Performance requirements. When the tire is tested in accordance with S6.3.1:

(a) There shall be no visual evidence of tread, sidewall, ply, cord, belt or bead separation, chunking, open splices, cracking or broken cords.

(b) The tire pressure, when measured at any time between 15 minutes and 25 minutes after the end of the test, shall not be less than 95% of the initial pressure specified in S6.3.1.1.1.

S6.4.1.1.1 This test is conducted following completion of the tire endurance test using the same tire and rim assembly tested in accordance with S6.3 with the tire deflated to the following appropriate pressure:

S6.4.1.1.2 After the tire is deflated to the appropriate test pressure in S6.4.1.1.1 at the completion of the endurance test, condition the assembly at 32 to 38 &#xB0;C for not less than 2 hours.

S6.4.1.1.3 Before or after mounting the assembly on a test axle, readjust the tire pressure to that specified in S6.4.1.1.1.

S6.4.1.2.1 The test is conducted for ninety minutes at the end of the test specified in S6.3, continuous and uninterrupted, at a speed of 120 km/h (75 mph). For snow tires, conduct the test at not less than 110 km/h.

S6.4.1.2.2 Press the assembly against the outer face of a test drum with a diameter of 1.70 m + 1%.

S6.4.1.2.3 Apply to the test axle a load equal to 100% of the tire's maximum load carrying capacity.

S6.4.1.2.4 Throughout the test, the inflation pressure is not corrected and the test load is maintained at the initial level.

S6.4.1.2.5 During the test, the ambient temperature, at a distance of not less than 150 mm and not more than 1 m from the tire, is maintained at not less than 32 &#xB0;C or more than 38 &#xB0;C.

S6.4.1.2.6 Allow the tire to cool for between 15 minutes and 25 minutes. Measure its inflation pressure. Then, deflate the tire, remove it from the test rim, and inspect it for the conditions specified in S6.4.2(a).

S6.4.2 Performance requirements. When the tire is tested in accordance with S6.4.1:

(a) There shall be no visual evidence of tread, sidewall, ply, cord, innerliner, belt or bead separation, chunking, open splices, cracking, or broken cords, and

(b) The tire pressure, when measured at any time between 15 minutes and 25 minutes after the end of the test, shall not be less than 95% of the initial pressure specified in S6.4.1.1.1.
