
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.141 Standard No. 141; Minimum Sound Requirements for Hybrid and Electric Vehicles.
####### Vehicle condition

S6.6

(a) The vehicle's doors are shut and locked and windows are shut.

(b) All accessory equipment (air conditioner, wipers, heat, HVAC fan, audio/video systems, etc.) that can be shut down, will be off. Propulsion battery cooling fans and pumps and other components of the vehicle's propulsion battery thermal management system are not considered accessory equipment. During night time testing test vehicle headlights may be activated.

(c) Vehicle's electric propulsion batteries, if any, are charged according to the requirements of S7.1.2.2 of SAE J2889-1 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5). If propulsion batteries must be recharged during testing to ensure internal combustion engine does not activate, manufacturer instructions will be followed.

(d) Vehicle test weight, including the driver and instrumentation, will be evenly distributed between the left and right side of the vehicle and will not exceed the vehicle's GVWR or GAWR:

(1) For passenger cars, and MPVs, trucks, and buses with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) or less, the vehicle test weight is the unloaded vehicle weight plus 180 kg (396 pounds);

(2) For LSVs, the test weight is the unloaded vehicle weight plus 78 kg (170 pounds).

(e) Tires will be free of all debris and each tire's cold tire inflation pressure set to:

(1) For passenger cars, and MPVs, trucks, and buses with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) or less, the inflation pressure specified on the vehicle placard in FMVSS No. 110;

(2) For LSVs, the inflation pressure recommended by the manufacturer for GVWR; if none is specified, the maximum inflation pressure listed on the sidewall of the tires.

(f) Tires are conditioned by driving the test vehicle around a circle 30 meters (100 feet) in diameter at a speed that produces a lateral acceleration of 0.5 to 0.6 g for three clockwise laps followed by three counterclockwise laps;
