
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.141 Standard No. 141; Minimum Sound Requirements for Hybrid and Electric Vehicles.
####### i.e.

S6.7.1 Measure the ambient noise for at least 30 seconds immediately before and after each series of vehicle tests. A series is a test condition,stationary, reverse, 10 km/h pass-by test, 20 km/h pass-by test, or 30 km/h pass-by test. Ambient noise data files will be collected from each microphone required by the test procedures in S7.

S6.7.2 For each microphone, determine the minimum A-weighted overall ambient SPL during the 60 seconds (or more) of recorded ambient noise consisting of at least 30 seconds recorded immediately before and at least 30 seconds immediately after each test series.

S6.7.3 For each microphone, compute an ambient level for each of the 13 one-third octave bands using the time that is associated with the minimum A-weighted overall ambient identified in S6.7.2 of this section.

S6.7.4 To correct overall SPL values for ambient noise, calculate the difference, for each microphone, between the measured overall SPL values for a test vehicle obtained in sections S7.1.4(b) and S7.3.4(b) and the minimum overall ambient SPL values determined in S6.7.2, above. Using Table 8, determine a correction factor for each microphone. Subtract the correction factor from the overall SPL value measured under sections S7.1.4(b) and S7.3.4(b) to calculate the corrected overall SPL value. Any test for which the minimum overall SPL of the ambient is within 3 dB of the uncorrected overall SPL of the vehicle is invalid and not analyzed further.

S6.7.5 To correct one-third octave band sound levels for ambient noise, calculate the difference, for each microphone, between the uncorrected level for a one-third octave band (obtained in sections S7.1.5(b), S7.1.6(b) and S7.3.5(b)) and the minimum ambient level in the same one-third octave band as determined in S6.7.3. Use Table 9 to determine if a correction is required for each microphone and one-third octave band. If a correction is required, subtract the appropriate correction factor in Table 9 from the uncorrected one-third octave band sound level to calculate the corrected level for each one-third octave band. If the level of any ambient one-third octave band is within 3 dB of the corresponding uncorrected one-third octave band level, then that one-third octave band is invalid and not analyzed further.

S7. Test Procedure.

S7.1 Stationary vehicle in forward gear.

S7.1.1 Execute stationary tests and collect acoustic sound files.

(a) Position the vehicle with the front plane at the line PP', the vehicle centerline on the line CC' and the starting system deactivated. For vehicle equipped with a Park position, place the vehicle's gear selector in "Park" and engage the parking brake. For vehicles not equipped with a Park position, place the vehicle's gear selector in "Neutral" and engage the parking brake. Activate the starting system to energize the vehicle's propulsion system.

(b) For vehicles equipped with a Park position for the gear selector, after activating the starting system to energize the vehicle's propulsion system, apply and maintain a full application of the service brake, disengage the vehicle parking brake and then place the vehicle's gear selector in "Drive," or any forward gear. For vehicles not equipped with a Park position for the gear selector, after activating the starting system to energize the vehicle's propulsion system, apply and maintain a full application of the service brake, disengage the vehicle parking brake, disengage the manual clutch (fully depress and hold the clutch pedal), and place the vehicle's gear selector in any forward gear.

(c) Execute multiple tests to acquire at least four valid tests within 2 dBA overall SPL in accordance with S7.1.2 and S7.1.3. For each test, measure the sound emitted by the stationary test vehicle for a duration of 10 seconds.

(d) During each test a left (driver's side), a right (passenger side), and a front-center acoustic file will be recorded.

S7.1.2. Eliminate invalid tests.
