
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.141 Standard No. 141; Minimum Sound Requirements for Hybrid and Electric Vehicles.
####### e.g.,

(a) Determine validity of sound files collected during S7.1.1 tests. Measurements that contain any distinct, transient, loud sounds (chirping birds, overhead planes, trains, car doors being slammed, etc.) are considered invalid. Measurements that contain sounds emitted by any vehicle system that is automatically activated and constantly engaged during the entire 10 second performance test are considered valid. Measurements that contain sound emitted by any vehicle system that is automatically activated and intermittently engaged at any time during the stationary performance test, are considered invalid. Additionally, when testing a hybrid vehicle with an internal combustion engine, measurements that include sound emitted by the ICE either intermittently or continuously are considered invalid. A valid test requires a valid left side, a valid right side, and a valid front-center acoustic sound file.

(b) Sequentially number all tests which are deemed valid based upon the chronological order in which they were conducted. Acoustic files will be identified with a test sequence number and their association with the left side, right side, or front center microphone.

S7.1.3 Identify first four valid tests within 2dBA.

(a) For each valid test sound file identified in S7.1.2, determine a maximum overall SPL value, in decibels. Each SPL value will be reported to the nearest tenth of a decibel.

(b) Compare the first four left-side SPL values from S7.1.3(a) of this paragraph, and determine the range by taking the difference between the largest and smallest of the four values. In the same manner, determine the range of SPL values for the first four right-side and the first four front-center sound files. If the range for the left side, right side, and front-center are all less than or equal to 2.0 dB, then the twelve sound files associated with the first four valid tests will be used for the one-third octave band evaluations in S7.1.5. and S7.1.6. If the range of the SPL values for the left side are not within 2 dBA, or for the right side are not within 2 dBA, or for the front-center of the vehicle are not within 2 dBA, an iterative process will be used to consider sound files from additional sequential tests until the range for all three microphone locations are within 2 dBA for the same sequence number recordings for all three locations.

S7.1.4 Compare the average overall SPL for the left and right side of the test vehicle to determine which is lower.

(a) Document the maximum overall SPL values in each of the eight acoustic data files (four left side files and four right side files) identified in S7.1.3.

(b) Correct each of the eight SPL values from S7.1.4(a) according to S6.7 using the ambient sound level recorded during the test. The results will be reported to the nearest tenth of a decibel.

(c) Calculate a left-side average and a right-side average from the ambient-corrected overall SPL values from S71.4(b), and determine the lower of the two sides. The result will be reported to the nearest tenth of a decibel.

(d) If the left-side value from S7.1.4(c) is the lower one, then the left side acoustic data will be further evaluated for compliance at the one-third octave band levels in accordance with S7.1.5. If the left-side value from S7.1.4(c) is not the lower one, the right-side acoustic data will be further evaluated for compliance at the one-third octave band level in accordance with S7.1.5.

S7.1.5 Select one-third octave bands to be used for evaluating compliance with detection requirements for a stationary vehicle.

(a) For each of the four left-side or right-side acoustic files, which ever was selected in S7.1.4, determine the sound pressure level in each one-third octave band from 315 Hz up to and including 5000 Hz.

(b) Correct the one-third octave band levels in all four sound files to adjust for the ambient sound level recorded during the test according to paragraph S6.7.

(c) For each one-third octave band, average the corrected levels from the four sound files. The results will be reported to the nearest tenth of a decibel.

(d) For alerts designed to meet the four-band requirements of S5.1 of this standard:

(i) Select any four one-third octave bands that are non-adjacent to each other and that span a range of at least nine one-third octave bands in the range of 315 Hz up to and including 5000 Hz to evaluate according to paragraph S7.1.5(d)(ii). This step will be repeated until compliance is established or it is determined that no combination meeting this selection criterion can satisfy paragraph S7.1.5(d)(ii).

(ii) Compare the average corrected sound pressure level from S7.1.5(c) in each of the four one-third octave bands selected in paragraph S7.1.5(d)(i) to the required minimum level of the corresponding one-third octave band specified in paragraph S5.1.1, Table 1, to determine compliance.

(e) For alerts designed to meet the two-band requirements of S5.2 of this standard:

(i) Select the two one-third octave bands, one below 1000 Hz and one at or above 1000 Hz, having the largest A-weighted SPL values within the range of 315 Hz up to 3150 Hz and that are non-adjacent to each other to evaluate according to S7.1.5(e)(ii), below. In the event that the pair of bands with the largest SPL values are the 800 Hz and 1000 Hz bands, then select both of the following pairs to evaluate according S7.1.5(e)(ii): The 800 Hz band along with the band having the second-largest A-weighted SPL value from the 1000 Hz and above bands; and, the 1000 Hz band along with the band having the second-largest A-weighted SPL value from the 800 Hz and below bands. At least one of the band pairs selected as specified in this paragraph shall meet the minimum requirements when evaluated according to S7.1.5(e)(ii).

(ii) Compare the average corrected sound pressure level from S7.1.5(c) in each of the two one-third octave bands selected in paragraph S7.1.5(e)(i) to the required minimum level of the corresponding one-third octave band specified in paragraph S5.2, Table 6. Also, compare the band sum of the two bands to the required minimum band sum in Table 6.

S7.1.6 Select one-third octave bands to be used for evaluating compliance with directivity requirements for a stationary vehicle.

(a) Determine the one-third octave band levels associated with the four front center sound files selected in S7.1.3.

(b) The identified one-third octave band levels in each of the four sound files will be corrected for the measured ambient levels as specified in paragraph S6.7.

(c) The four corrected sound pressure level values calculated from each of the four sound files in each one-third octave band will be averaged together to get the average corrected sound pressure level in each one-third octave band.

(d) For alerts designed to meet the four-band requirements of S5.1 of this standard:

(i) Select any four one-third octave bands that are non-adjacent to each other and that span a range of at least nine one-third octave bands in the range of 315 Hz up to and including 5000 Hz to evaluate according to paragraph S7.1.6(d)(ii). This step will be repeated until compliance is established or it is determined that no combination meeting this selection criterion can satisfy paragraph S7.1.6(d)(ii).

(ii) Compare the average corrected sound pressure level from S7.1.6(c) in each of the four one-third octave bands selected in paragraph S7.1.6(d)(i) to the required minimum level of the corresponding one-third octave band specified in paragraph S5.1.1, Table 1, to determine compliance.

(e) For alerts designed to meet the two-band requirements of S5.2 of this standard:

(i) Select the two one-third octave bands, one below 1000 Hz and one at or above 1000 Hz, having the largest A-weighted SPL values within the range of 315 Hz up to 3150 Hz and that are non-adjacent to each other to evaluate according to S7.1.6(e)(ii), below. In the event that the pair of bands with the largest SPL values are the 800 Hz and 1000 Hz bands, then select both of the following pairs to evaluate according S7.1.6(e)(ii): The 800 Hz band along with the band having the second-largest A-weighted SPL value from the 1000 Hz and above bands; and, the 1000 Hz band along with the band having the second-largest A-weighted SPL value from the 800 Hz and below bands. At least one of the band pairs selected as specified in this paragraph shall meet the minimum requirements when evaluated according to S7.1.6(e)(ii), below.

(ii) Compare the average corrected sound pressure level from S7.1.6(c) in each of the two one-third octave bands selected in paragraph S7.1.6(e)(i) to the required minimum level of the corresponding one-third octave band specified in paragraph S5.2, Table 6. Also, compare the band sum of the two bands to the required minimum band sum in Table 6.
