
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.141 Standard No. 141; Minimum Sound Requirements for Hybrid and Electric Vehicles.
####### e.g.,

(a) Determine validity of sound files collected during S7.3.1 tests. Measurements that contain any distinct, transient, background sounds (chirping birds, overhead planes, car doors being slammed, etc.) are considered invalid. Measurements that contain sounds emitted by any vehicle system that is automatically activated and constantly engaged during the entire performance test are considered valid. Measurements that contain sound emitted by any vehicle system that is automatically activated, and intermittently engaged at any time during the performance test, are considered invalid. Additionally, when testing a hybrid vehicle with an internal combustion engine that runs intermittently during a specific test, measurements that contain sound emitted by the ICE are considered invalid. A valid test requires both a valid left side and a valid right side acoustic sound file.

(b) Tests which are deemed valid will be numbered sequentially based upon the chronological order in which they were collected. Sound files will retain their test sequence number and their association with the left side or right side microphone.

S7.3.3 Identify "first four valid tests within 2 dBA".

(a) For each valid test sound file identified in S7.3.2, determine a maximum overall SPL value, in decibels. The SPL value will be reported to the nearest tenth of a decibel.

(b) Compare the first four left side maximum overall SPL values. Of the four SPL values calculate the difference between the largest and smallest maximum SPL values. The same process will be used to determine the difference between the largest and smallest maximum SPL values for the first four right side maximum SPL values. If the difference values on the left and right sides of the test vehicle are both less than or equal to 2.0 dB, then the eight sound files associated with the first four valid tests will be used for the final one-third octave band evaluation in accordance with S7.3.4. and S7.3.5. If the first four test sound files on each side of the vehicle are not within 2 dBA, an iterative process will be used to consider sound files from additional sequential tests until the range for both microphone locations are within 2 dBA for the same sequence number recordings for both locations.

S7.3.4 Determine average overall SPL value on each side (left and right) of test vehicle.

(a) Document the maximum overall SPL value in decibels for each of the eight acoustic sound data files (four left-side files and four right-side files) identified in S7.3.3.

(b) Each of the eight acoustic sound data file maximum overall SPL values will be corrected for the recorded ambient conditions as specified in paragraph S6.7. The test results will be reported to the nearest tenth of a decibel.

(c) Calculate the average of the four overall ambient-corrected SPL values on each side of the vehicle to derive one corrected maximum overall SPL value for each side of the vehicle. The result will be reported to the nearest tenth of a decibel.

(d) The side of the vehicle with the lowest average corrected maximum overall SPL value will be the side of the vehicle that is further evaluated for compliance at the one-third octave band levels in accordance with S7.3.5.

S7.3.5 Select one-third octave bands to be used for evaluating compliance with the constant speed pass-by requirements.

(a) The side of the vehicle selected in S7.3.4 will have four associated individual acoustic sound data files. Each sound file shall be broken down into its one-third octave band levels.

(b) The identified octave band levels in each of the four sound files will be corrected for the measured ambient levels as specified in paragraph S6.7.

(c) The four corrected sound pressure level values calculated from each of the four sound files in each one-third octave band will be averaged together to get the average corrected sound pressure level in each one-third octave band.

(d) For alerts designed to meet the four-band requirements of S5.1 of this standard:

(i) Select any four one-third octave bands that are non-adjacent to each other and that span a range of at least nine one-third octave bands in the range of 315 Hz up to and including 5000 Hz to evaluate according to paragraph S7.3.5(d)(ii). This step will be repeated until compliance is established or it is determined that no combination meeting this selection criterion can satisfy paragraph S7.3.5(d)(ii).

(ii) Compare the average corrected sound pressure level from S7.3.5(c) in each of the four one-third octave bands selected in paragraph S7.3.5(d)(i) to the required minimum level of the corresponding one-third octave band specified in paragraph S5.1.3, Table 3, to determine compliance.

(e) For alerts designed to meet the two-band requirements of S5.2 of this standard:

(i) Select the two one-third octave bands, one below 1000 Hz and one at or above 1000 Hz, having the largest A-weighted SPL values within the range of 315 Hz up to 3150 Hz and that are non-adjacent to each other to evaluate according to S7.3.5(e)(ii), below. In the event that the pair of bands with the largest SPL values are the 800 Hz and 1000 Hz bands, then select both of the following pairs to evaluate according S7.3.5(e)(ii): The 800 Hz band along with the band having the second-largest A-weighted SPL value from the 1000 Hz and above bands; and, the 1000 Hz band along with the band having the second-largest A-weighted SPL value from the 800 Hz and below bands. At least one of the band pairs selected as specified in this paragraph shall meet the minimum requirements when evaluated according to S7.3.5(e)(ii), below.

(ii) Compare the average corrected sound pressure level from S7.3.5(c) in each of the two one-third octave bands selected in paragraph S7.3.5(e)(i) to the required minimum level of the corresponding one-third octave band specified in paragraph S5.2, Table 6. Also, compare the band sum of the two bands to the required minimum band sum in Table 6.

S7.3.6 The procedures in S7.3.1 through S7.3.5 may be repeated for any pass-by test speed greater than 0 km/h and less than 20 km/h. For test speeds greater than 0 km/h and less than 10 km/h, the minimum sound level requirements are contained in S5.1.1, Table 1, for four-band compliance and in S5.2, Table 6, for two-band compliance. For test speeds greater than or equal to 10 km/h and less than 20 km/h, the minimum sound level requirements are contained in S5.1.3, Table 3, for 4-band compliance and in S5.2, Table 6, for 2-band compliance.
