
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Side Impact Protection,

(4) Vehicles certified as complying with the vehicle-to-pole requirements of S9 of 49 CFR 571.214,need not comply with the pole test requirements specified in S6.2(b)(3) of this section.

S6.3 A vehicle need not meet the requirements of S6.1 through S6.2 for:

(a) Any target located on a convertible roof frame or a convertible roof linkage mechanism.

(b) Any target located rearward of a vertical plane 600 mm behind the seating reference point of the rearmost designated seating position. For altered vehicles and vehicles built in two or more stages, including ambulances and motor homes, any target located rearward of a vertical plane 300 mm behind the seating reference point of the driver's designated seating position or the rearmost designated seating position in the front row of seats, if there is no driver's designated seating position (tests for altered vehicles and vehicles built in two or more stages do not include, within the time period for measuring HIC(d), any free motion headform contact with components rearward of this plane). If an altered vehicle or vehicle built in two or more stages is equipped with a transverse vertical partition positioned between the seating reference point of the driver's designated seating position and a vertical plane 300 mm behind the seating reference point of the driver's designated seating position, any target located rearward of the vertical partition is excluded.

(c) Any target in a vehicle manufactured in two or more stages that is delivered to a final stage manufacturer without an occupant compartment. Note: Motor homes, ambulances, and other vehicles manufactured using a chassis cab, a cut-away van, or any other incomplete vehicle delivered to a final stage manufacturer with a furnished front compartment are not excluded under this S6.3(c).

(d) Any target in a walk-in van-type vehicles.

(e) Any target located on the seat belt mounting structures, door frames and other door frames before December 1, 2005.
