
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2002 and vehicles built in two or more stages manufactured after September 1, 2006.

S6.2Except as provided in S6.1.4 and S6.3, vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2002 shall, when tested under the conditions of S8, conform, at the manufacturer's option, to either S6.2(a) or S6.2(b). Vehicles manufactured by final stage manufacturers on or after September 1, 2006 shall, except as provided in S6.3, when tested under the conditions of S8, conform, at the manufacturer's option, to either S6.2(a) or S6.2(b). The manufacturer shall select the option by the time it certifies the vehicle and may not thereafter select a different option for the vehicle.

(a) When tested under the conditions of S8, comply with the requirements specified in S7 at the target locations specified in S10 when impacted by the free motion headform specified in S8.9 at any speed up to and including 24 km/h (15 mph). The requirements do not apply to any target that cannot be located using the procedures of S10.

(b) When equipped with a dynamically deployed upper interior head protection system and tested under the conditions of S8, comply with the requirements specified in S7 at the target locations specified in S10 as follows:

(1) Targets that are not located over any point inside the area measured along the contour of the vehicle surface within 50 mm (2.0 inch) of the periphery of the stowed system projected perpendicularly onto the vehicle interior surface, including mounting and inflation components but exclusive of any cover or covers, shall be impacted by the free motion headform specified in S8.9 at any speed up to and including 24 km/h (15 mph). The requirements do not apply to any targets that cannot be located by using the procedures of S10.

(2) Targets that are over any point inside the area measured along the contour of the vehicle interior within 50 mm (2.0 inch) of the periphery of the stowed system projected perpendicularly onto the vehicle interior surface, including mounting and inflation components but exclusive of any cover or covers, when the dynamically deployed upper interior head protection system is not deployed, shall be impacted by the free motion headform specified in S8.9 at any speed up to and including 19 km/h (12 mph) with the system undeployed. The requirements do not apply to any target that cannot be located using the procedures of S10.

(3) Except as provided in S6.2(b)(4), each vehicle shall, when equipped with a dummy test device specified in 49 CFR part 572, subpart M, and tested as specified in S8.16 through S8.28, comply with the requirements specified in S7 when crashed into a fixed, rigid pole of 254 mm in diameter, at any velocity between 24 kilometers per hour (15 mph) and 29 kilometers per hour (18 mph).
