
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Forehead impact zone.

S8.10The forehead impact zone of the headform is determined according to the procedure specified in (a) through (f).

(a) Position the headform so that the baseplate of the skull is horizontal. The midsagittal plane of the headform is designated as Plane S.

(b) From the center of the threaded hole on top of the headform, draw a 69 mm line forward toward the forehead, coincident with Plane S, along the contour of the outer skin of the headform. The front end of the line is designated as Point P. From Point P, draw a 100 mm line forward toward the forehead, coincident with Plane S, along the contour of the outer skin of the headform. The front end of the line is designated as Point O.

(c) Draw a 125 mm line which is coincident with a horizontal plane along the contour of the outer skin of the forehead from left to right through Point O so that the line is bisected at Point O. The end of the line on the left side of the headform is designated as Point a and the end on the right as Point b.

(d) Draw another 125 mm line which is coincident with a vertical plane along the contour of the outer skin of the forehead through Point P so that the line is bisected at Point P. The end of the line on the left side of the headform is designated as Point c and the end on the right as Point d.

(e) Draw a line from Point a to Point c along the contour of the outer skin of the headform using a flexible steel tape. Using the same method, draw a line from Point b to Point d.

(f) The forehead impact zone is the surface area on the FMH forehead bounded by lines a-O-b and c-P-d, and a-c and b-d.
