
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Left seat belt mounting structure horizontal approach angles.

(g)

(1) Locate a line formed by the shortest horizontal distance between CG-F2 for the left seat and the left seat belt mounting structure. If the seat belt mounting structure is below a horizontal plane passing through CG-F2 for the left seat, locate the point 200 mm directly below CG-F2 and locate a line formed by the shortest horizontal distance between that point and the left seat belt mounting structure. The maximum horizontal approach angle for the left seat belt mounting structure equals the angle formed by that line and the X-axis of the vehicle measured counterclockwise, or 270 degrees, whichever is greater.

(2) Locate a line formed by the shortest horizontal distance between CG-R for the left seat and the left seat belt mounting structure. If the seat belt mounting structure is below a horizontal plane passing through CG-R for the left seat, locate the point 200 mm directly below CG-R and locate a line formed by the shortest horizontal distance between that point and the left seat belt mounting structure. The minimum horizontal approach angle for the left seat belt mounting structure equals the angle formed by that line and the X-axis of the vehicle measured counterclockwise. If the CG-R does not exist, or is forward of the seat belt mounting structure, the maximum horizontal approach angle is 270 degrees.
