
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Multiple impacts.

S8.14

(a) A vehicle being tested may be impacted multiple times, subject to the limitations in S8.14(b), (c), (d) and (e).

(b) As measured as provided in S8.14(d), impacts within 300 mm of each other may not occur less than 30 minutes apart.

(c) As measured as provided in S8.14(d), no impact may occur within 150 mm of any other impact.

(d) For S8.14(b) and S8.14(c), the distance between impacts is the distance between the center of the target circle specified in S8.11 for each impact, measured along the vehicle interior.

(e) No impact may occur within the "exclusion zone" of any pillar target specified in S10.1 through S10.4, door frame target specified in S10.14 and S10.15, upper roof target specified in S10.9, or seat belt mounting structure target specified in S10.16. The "exclusion zone" is determined according to the procedure in S8.14(f) through S8.14(k).

(f) Locate the point, Point X, at the center of the target circle specified in S8.11 for the tested target.

(g) Determine two spheres centered on Point X. Radii of these spheres are 150 mm and 200 mm, respectively.

(h) Locate a horizontal plane passing through Point X. Determine the intersection points, if they exist, of the small sphere surface, the horizontal plane, and the vehicle interior surface. Relative to Point X, the point on the left is Point L and the point on the right is Point R.

(i) Locate a vertical plane, Plane Z, passing through Point X and coincident (within +/-5&#xB0;) with the horizontal approach angle used or intended for use in testing the target centered on Point X.

(j) If either Point L or Point R does not exist, extend Line LX and/or Line RX, as appropriate, perpendicular to Plane Z beyond Point X by 150 mm. The end of the line is designated as Point L or Point R, as appropriate.

(k) Locate a vertical plane, Plane ZL, passing through Point L and parallel to Plane Z. Locate another vertical plane, Plane ZR, passing through Point R and parallel to Plane Z. The "exclusion zone" is the vehicle interior surface area between Plane ZL and Plane ZR below the upper boundary of the smaller sphere and above the lower boundary of the larger sphere. Points on the intersection of the vehicle interior surface and the large sphere below the target, the small sphere above the target, Plane ZL and Plane ZR are not included in the "exclusion zone."
