
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Upper Roof.

S8.15The upper roof of a vehicle is determined according to the procedure specified in S8.15 (a) through (h).

(a) Locate the transverse vertical plane A at the forwardmost point where it contacts the interior roof (including trim) at the vehicle centerline.

(b) Locate the transverse vertical plane B at the rearmost point where it contacts the interior roof (including trim) at the vehicle centerline.

(c) Measure the horizontal distance (D1) between Plane A and Plane B.

(d) Locate the vertical longitudinal plane C at the leftmost point at which a vertical transverse plane, located 300 mm rearward of the A-pillar reference point described in S10.1(a), contacts the interior roof (including trim).

(e) Locate the vertical longitudinal plane D at the rightmost point at which a vertical transverse plane, located 300 mm rearward of the A-pillar reference point described in S10.1(a), contacts the interior roof (including trim).

(f) Measure the horizontal distance (D2) between Plane C and Plane D.

(g) Locate a point (Point M) on the interior roof surface, midway between Plane A and Plane B along the vehicle longitudinal centerline.

(h) The upper roof zone is the area of the vehicle upper interior surface bounded by the four planes described in S8.15(h)(1) and S8.15(h)(2):

(1) A transverse vertical plane E located at a distance of (.35 D1) forward of Point M and a transverse vertical plane F located at a distance of (.35 D1) rearward of Point M, measured horizontally.

(2) A longitudinal vertical plane G located at a distance of (.35 D2) to the left of Point M and a longitudinal vertical plane H located at a distance of (.35 D2) to the right of Point M, measured horizontally.
