
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Anthropomorphic test dummy-vehicle to pole test.

S8.27

S8.27.1 The anthropomorphic test dummy used for evaluation of a vehicle's head impact protection shall conform to the requirements of subpart M of part 572 of this chapter (49 CFR part 572, subpart M). In a test in which the test vehicle is striking its left side, the dummy is to be configured and instrumented to strike on its left side, in accordance with subpart M of part 572. In a test in which the test vehicle is striking its right side, the dummy is to be configured and instrumented to strike its right side, in accordance with subpart M of part 572.

S8.27.2 The part 572, subpart M, test dummy specified is clothed in form fitting cotton stretch garments with short sleeves and midcalf length pants. Each foot of the test dummy is equipped with a size 11EEE shoe, which meets the configuration size, sole, and heel thickness specifications of MIL-S-13192 (1976) and weighs 0.57 +/-0.09 kilograms (1.25 +/-0.2 pounds).

S8.27.3 Limb joints shall be set at between 1 and 2 g's. Leg joints are adjusted with the torso in the supine position.

S8.27.4 The stabilized temperature of the test dummy at the time of the side impact test shall be at any temperature between 20.6 degrees C. and 22.2 degrees C.

S8.27.5 The acceleration data from the accelerometers installed inside the skull cavity of the test dummy are processed according to the practices set forth in SAE Recommended Practice J211, March 1995, "Instrumentation for Impact Tests," Class 1000.
