
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Positioning procedure for the Part 572 Subpart M test dummy-vehicle to pole test.

S8.28The part 572, subpart M, test dummy is initially positioned in the front outboard seating position on the struck side of the vehicle in accordance with the provisions of S12.1 of Standard 214 (49 CFR 571.214), and the vehicle seat is positioned as specified in S8.3.2.1 and S8.3.2.2 of that standard. The position of the dummy is then measured as follows. Locate the horizontal plane passing through the dummy head center of gravity. Identify the rearmost point on the dummy head in that plane. Construct a line in the plane that contains the rearward point of the front door daylight opening and is perpendicular to the longitudinal vehicle centerline. Measure the longitudinal distance between the rearmost point on the dummy head and this line. If this distance is less than 50 mm (2 inches) or the point is not forward of the line, then the seat and/or dummy positions is adjusted as follows. First, the seat back angle is adjusted, a maximum of 5 degrees, until a 50 mm (2 inches) distance is achieved. If this is not sufficient to produce the 50 mm (2 inches) distance, the seat is moved forward until the 50 mm (2 inches) distance is achieved or until the knees of the dummy contact the dashboard or knee bolster, whichever comes first. If the required distance cannot be achieved through movement of the seat, the seat back angle is adjusted even further forward until the 50 mm (2 inches) distance is obtained or until the seat back is in its fully upright locking position.
