
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Orthogonal Reference System.

S9.The approach angles specified in S8.13.4 are determined using the reference system specified in S9.1 through S9.4.

S9.1 An orthogonal reference system consisting of a longitudinal X axis and a transverse Y axis in the same horizontal plane and a vertical Z axis through the intersection of X and Y is used to define the horizontal direction of approach of the headform. The X-Z plane is the vertical longitudinal zero plane and is parallel to the longitudinal centerline of the vehicle. The X-Y plane is the horizontal zero plane parallel to the ground. The Y-Z plane is the vertical transverse zero plane that is perpendicular to the X-Y and X-Z planes. The X coordinate is negative forward of the Y-Z plane and positive to the rear. The Y coordinate is negative to the left of the X-Z plane and positive to the right. The Z coordinate is negative below the X-Y plane and positive above it. (See Figure 1.)

S9.2 The origin of the reference system is the center of gravity of the headform at the time immediately prior to launch for each test.

S9.3 The horizontal approach angle is the angle between the X axis and the headform impact velocity vector projected onto the horizontal zero plane, measured in the horizontal zero plane in the counter-clockwise direction. A 0 degree horizontal vector and a 360 degree horizontal vector point in the positive X direction; a 90 degree horizontal vector points in the positive Y direction; a 180 degree horizontal vector points in the negative X direction; and a 270 horizontal degree vector points in the negative Y direction. (See Figure 2.)

S9.4 The vertical approach angle is the angle between the horizontal plane and the velocity vector, measured in the midsagittal plane of the headform. A 0 degree vertical vector in Table I coincides with the horizontal plane and a vertical vector of greater than 0 degrees in Table I makes an upward angle of the same number of degrees with that plane.
