
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Rear header target (target RH).

S10.8Locate the point (Point 17) at the intersection of the surface of the upper vehicle interior, the mid-sagittal plane (Plane 28) of the outboard rearmost dummy and the plane, described in S8.15(h), defining the rear edge of the upper roof. Locate the point (Point 18) as provided in S10.8(a) or S10.8(b), as appropriate. Except as provided in S10.8(c), Target RH is located at the mid-point of the line that is between Point 17 and Point 18 and is in Plane 28, as measured along the surface of the vehicle interior.

(a) If Plane 28 intersects a rear door opening or daylight opening, then Point 18 is located at the intersection of Plane 28 and the upper edge of the door opening or the daylight opening (if no door opening).

(b) If Plane 28 does not intersect a rear door opening or daylight opening, then Point 18 is located on the vehicle interior at the intersection of Plane 28 and a horizontal plane through the highest point of the door or daylight opening nearest to Plane 28. If the adjacent door(s) or daylight opening(s) are equidistant to Plane 28, Point 18 is located on the vehicle interior at the intersection of Plane 28 and either horizontal plane through the highest point of each door or daylight opening.

(c) If Target RH is more than 112 mm from Point 18 on the line that is between Point 17 and Point 18 and is in Plane 28, as measured along the surface of the vehicle interior, then Target RH is the point on that line which is 112 mm from Point 18.
