
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.201 Standard No. 201; Occupant protection in interior impact.
####### Other side rail target (target SR3).

S10.7

(a) Except as provided in S10.7(b), target SR3 is located in accordance with this paragraph. Locate a transverse vertical plane (Plane 27) 150 mm rearward of either Point BPR or Point OPR. Locate the point (Point 15) as provided in either S10.7(a)(1) or S10.7(a)(2), as appropriate. Locate the point (Point 16) at the intersection of the interior roof surface, Plane 27 and the plane, described in S8.15(h), defining the nearest edge of the upper roof. Target SR3 is located at the middle of the line between Point 15 and Point 16 in Plane 27, measured along the vehicle interior surface.

(1) If Plane 27 intersects a door or daylight opening, the Point 15 is located at the intersection of Plane 27 and the upper edge of the door opening or daylight opening.

(2) If Plane 27 does not intersect a door or daylight opening, the Point 15 is located on the vehicle interior at the intersection of Plane 27 and the horizontal plane through the highest point of the door or daylight opening nearest Plane 27. If the adjacent door(s) or daylight opening(s) are equidistant to Plane 27, Point 15 is located on the vehicle interior at the intersection of Plane 27 and either horizontal plane through the highest point of each door or daylight opening.

(b) Except as provided in S10.7(c), if a grab handle is located on the side rail, target SR3 is located at any point on the anchorage of the grab-handle. Folding grab-handles are in their stowed position for testing.

(c) If a seat belt anchorage is located on the side rail, target SR3 is located at any point on the anchorage.
