
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.202 Standard No. 202; Head restraints; Applicable at the manufacturers option until September 1, 2009.
####### Requirements.

S4.

S4.1 Each passenger car, and multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck and bus with a GVWR of 4,536 kg or less, must comply with, at the manufacturer's option, S4.2, S4.4 or S4.5 of this section.

S4.2 Except for school buses, a head restraint that conforms to either S4.2 (a) or (b) of this section must be provided at each outboard front designated seating position. For school buses, a head restraint that conforms to either S4.2 (a) or (b) of this section must be provided at the driver's seating position.

(a) When tested in accordance with S5.1 of this section, limit rearward angular displacement of the head reference line to 45 degrees from the torso reference line; or

(b) When adjusted to its fully extended design position, conform to each of the following:

(1) When measured parallel to the torso line, the top of the head restraint must not be less than 700 mm above the seating reference point;

(2) When measured either 64 mm below the top of the head restraint or 635 mm above the seating reference point, the lateral width of the head restraint must be not less than:

(i) 254 mm for use with bench-type seats; and

(ii) 170 mm for use with individual seats;

(3) When tested in accordance with S5.2 of this section, any portion of the head form in contact with the head restraint must not be displaced to more than 102 mm perpendicularly rearward of the displaced extended torso reference line during the application of the load specified in S5.2 (c) of this section; and

(4) When tested in accordance with S5.2 of this section, the head restraint must withstand an increasing load until one of the following occurs:

(i) Failure of the seat or seat back; or,

(ii) Application of a load of 890N.

S4.3 [Reserved]

S4.4. Except for school buses, a head restraint that conforms to S4.4 (a) and (b) of this section must be provided at each outboard front designated seating position. For school buses, a head restraint that conforms to S4.4 (a) and (b) of this section must be provided at the driver's seating position.

(a) The head restraint must comply with Paragraphs 5.1.1, 5.1.3, 5.3.1, 5.5 through 5.13, 6.1.1, 6.1.3, and 6.4 through 6.8 of the English language version of the UNECE Regulation 17 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5).

(b) The head restraint must meet the width requirements specified in S4.2(b)(2) of this section.

S4.5 Except for school buses, head restraints that conform to the requirements of § 571.202a must be provided at each front outboard designated seating position. If a rear head restraint (as defined in § 571.202a) is provided at a rear outboard designated seating position, it must conform to the requirements of § 571.202a applicable to rear head restraints. For school buses, a head restraint that conforms to the requirements of § 571.202a must be installed at the driver's seating position.

S4.6 Where manufacturer options are specified in this section or § 571.202a, the manufacturer must select an option by the time it certifies the vehicle and may not thereafter select a different option for that vehicle. The manufacturer may select different compliance options for different designated seating positions to which the requirements of this section are applicable. Each manufacturer must, upon request from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, provide information regarding which of the compliance options it has selected for a particular vehicle or make/model.
