
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.202a Standard No. 202a; Head restraints; Mandatory applicability begins on September 1, 2009.
####### Procedures.

S5Demonstrate compliance with S4.2 through S4.4 of this section as follows. The positions of seat adjustment specified in S5 and S5.1 are conditions to be met concurrently and are not a sequential list of adjustments. Any adjustable lumbar support is adjusted to its most posterior nominal design position. If the seat cushion adjusts independently of the seat back, position the seat cushion such that the highest H-point position is achieved with respect to the seat back, as measured by SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5) manikin, with leg length specified in S10.4.2.1 of ยง 571.208 of this Part. If the specified position of the H-point can be achieved with a range of seat cushion inclination angles, adjust the seat inclination such that the most forward part of the seat cushion is at its lowest position with respect to the most rearward part. All tests specified by this standard are conducted with the ambient temperature between 18 degrees C. and 28 degrees C.

S5.1 Except as specified in S5.2.3 and S5.3 of this section, if the seat back is adjustable, it is set at an initial inclination position closest to the manufacturer's design seat back angle, as measured by SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5) manikin. If there is more than one inclination position closest to the design angle, set the seat back inclination to the position closest to and rearward of the design angle.
