
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.202a Standard No. 202a; Head restraints; Mandatory applicability begins on September 1, 2009.
####### Procedures for energy absorption.

S5.2.5Demonstrate compliance with S4.2.5 of this section in accordance with S5.2.5 (a) through (e) of this section, with adjustable head restraints in any height and backset position of adjustment.

(a) Use an impactor with a semispherical head form with a 165 +/-2 mm diameter and a surface roughness of less than 1.6 µm, root mean square. The head form and associated base have a combined mass of 6.8 +/-0.05 kg.

(b) Instrument the impactor with an acceleration sensing device whose output is recorded in a data channel that conforms to the requirements for a 600 Hz channel class as specified in SAE Recommended Practice J211/1 MAR95 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5). The axis of the acceleration-sensing device coincides with the geometric center of the head form and the direction of impact.

(c) Propel the impactor toward the head restraint. At the time of launch, the longitudinal axis of the impactor is within 2 degrees of being horizontal and parallel to the vehicle longitudinal axis. The direction of travel is posteriorly.

(d) Constrain the movement of the head form so that it travels linearly along the path described in S5.2.5(c) of this section for not less than 25 mm before making contact with the head restraint.

(e) Impact the anterior surface of the seat or head restraint at any point with a height greater than 635 mm and within a distance of the head restraint vertical centerline of 70 mm.
