
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.202a Standard No. 202a; Head restraints; Mandatory applicability begins on September 1, 2009.
####### Procedures for gap measurement.

S5.2.4

S5.2.4.1 Procedure using a 165 mm sphere.

Demonstrate compliance with S4.2.4.1 of this section in accordance with the procedures of S5.2.4.1 (a) through (c) of this section, with the head restraint adjusted to its lowest height position and any backset position, except as allowed by S4.4.

(a) The area of measurement is anywhere on the anterior surface of the head restraint or seat with a height greater than 540 mm and within the following distances from the centerline of the seat-

(1) 127 mm for seats required to have 254 mm minimum head restraint width; and

(2) 85 mm for seats required to have a 170 mm head restraint width.

(b) Applying a load of no more than 5 N against the area of measurement specified in subparagraph (a), place a 165 +/-2 mm diameter spherical head form against any gap such that at least two points of contact are made within the area. The surface roughness of the head form is less than 1.6 µm, root mean square.

(c) Determine the gap dimension by measuring the vertical straight line distance between the inner edges of the two furthest contact points, as shown in Figures 2, 3 and 4.

S5.2.4.2 Procedure using a 25 mm cylinder.

Demonstrate compliance with S4.2.4.2 of this section in accordance with the procedures of S5.2.4.2 (a) through (c) of this section, with the head restraint adjusted to its lowest height position and any backset position, except as allowed by S4.4.

(a) The area of measurement is between the anterior surface of the head restraint and seat with a height greater than 540 mm and within the following distances from the centerline of the seat-

(1) 127 mm for seats required to have 254 mm minimum head restraint width; and

(2) 85 mm for seats required to have a 170 mm head restraint width.

(b) Orient a 25 +/-1 mm diameter cylinder such that its long axis is perpendicular to the seat back angle and in a vertical longitudinal vehicle plane. Applying a load of no more than 5 N along the axis of the cylinder, place the cylinder against any gap within the area of measurement specified in subparagraph (a). The surface roughness of the cylinder is less than 1.6 µm, root mean square.

(c) Determine if at least 125 mm of the cylinder can completely pass through the gap. If 125 mm or more of the cylinder can completely pass through the gap, the gap is not in compliance.
