
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.202a Standard No. 202a; Head restraints; Mandatory applicability begins on September 1, 2009.
####### Backset retention and displacement.

(a)For head restraints that move with respect to the seat when occupant loading is applied to the seat back, S5.2.7(a)(1) through (8) may be performed with the head restraint fixed in a position corresponding to the position when the seat is unoccupied. This fixation is applied to the member(s) that first transmit(s) the seat back loading from the occupant to the head restraint.

(1) Adjust the head restraint so that its top is at a height closest to and not less than:

(i) 800 mm for front outboard designated seating positions (or the highest position of adjustment for head restraints subject to S4.2.1(a)(2)); and

(ii) 750 mm for rear outboard designated seating positions equipped with head restraints (or the highest position of adjustment for rear head restraints subject to S4.2.1(b)(2)).

(2) Adjust the head restraint to any backset position.

(3) In the seat, place a test device having the back pan dimensions and torso reference line (vertical center line), when viewed laterally, with the head room probe in the full back position, of the three dimensional SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5) manikin;

(4) Establish the displaced torso reference line by creating a posterior moment of 373 +/-7.5 Nm about the H-point by applying a force to the seat back through the back pan at the rate of 187 +/-37 Nm/minute. The initial location on the back pan of the moment generating force vector has a height of 290 mm +/-13 mm. Apply the force vector normal to the torso reference line and maintain it within 2 degrees of a vertical plane parallel to the vehicle longitudinal centerline. Constrain the back pan to rotate about the H-point. Rotate the force vector direction with the back pan.

(5) Maintain the position of the back pan as established in S5.2.7(a)(4) of this section. Using a 165 +/-2 mm diameter spherical head form with a surface roughness of less than 1.6 µm, root mean square, establish the head form initial reference position by aligning the centerline of the head form perpendicular to the displaced torso reference line, on the seat centerline, and at a height 65 +/-3 mm below the top of the head restraint. Apply a posterior initial load that will produce a 37 +/-0.7 Nm moment about the H-point. After maintaining this moment for 5.5 +/-0.5 seconds, measure the posterior displacement of the head form during the application of the load.

(6) Increase the initial load at the rate of 187 +/-37 Nm/minute until a 373 +/-7.5 Nm moment about the H-point is produced. Maintain the load level producing that moment for 5.5 +/-0.5 seconds and then measure the posterior displacement of the head form relative to the displaced torso reference line.

(7) Reduce the load at the rate of 187 +/-37 Nm/minute until it is completely removed. Maintain this condition for two minutes +/-5 seconds.

(8) Increase the load at the rate of 187 +/-37 Nm/minute until a 37 +/-0.7 Nm moment about the H-point is produced. After maintaining the load level producing that moment for 5.5 +/-0.5 seconds, measure the posterior displacement of the head form position with respect to its initial reference position; and
