
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.202a Standard No. 202a; Head restraints; Mandatory applicability begins on September 1, 2009.
####### Procedures for height retention.

S5.2.6Demonstrate compliance with S4.2.6 of this section in accordance with S5.2.6(a) through (e) of this section. For head restraints that move with respect to the seat when occupant loading is applied to the seat back, S5.2.6(a) through (e) may be performed with the head restraint fixed in a position corresponding to the position when the seat is unoccupied.

(a) Adjust the adjustable head restraint so that its top is at any of the following height positions at any backset position-

(1) For front outboard designated seating positions-

(i) The highest position; and

(ii) Not less than, but closest to 800 mm; and

(2) For rear outboard designated seating positions equipped with head restraints-

(i) The highest position; and

(ii) Not less than, but closest to 750 mm.

(b)(1) Orient a cylindrical test device having a 165 +/-2 mm diameter in plan view (perpendicular to the axis of revolution), and a 152 mm length in profile (through the axis of revolution) with a surface roughness of less than 1.6 µm, root mean square, such that the axis of the revolution is horizontal and in the longitudinal vertical plane through the longitudinal centerline of the head restraint. Position the midpoint of the bottom surface of the cylinder in contact with the head restraint.

(2) Establish initial reference position by applying a vertical downward load of 50 +/-1 N at the rate of 250 +/-50 N/minute. Determine the reference position after 5.5 +/-0.5 seconds at this load.

(c) Increase the load at the rate of 250 +/-50 N/minute to at least 500 N and maintain this load for 5.5 +/-0.5 seconds.

(d) Reduce the load at the rate of 250 +/-50 N/minute until the load is completely removed. Maintain this condition for two minutes +/-5 seconds.

(e) Increase the load at the rate of 250 +/-50 N/minute to 50 +/-1 N and, after 5.5 +/-0.5 seconds at this load, determine the position of the cylindrical device with respect to its initial reference position.
