
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.202a Standard No. 202a; Head restraints; Mandatory applicability begins on September 1, 2009.
####### Feet.

S5.3.7.5Position each test dummy as specified in S10.6 of § 571.208 of this part, except that for rear outboard designated seating positions the feet of the test dummy are placed flat on the floorpan and beneath the front seat as far forward as possible without front seat interference. For rear outboard designated seating positions, if necessary, the distance between the knees can be changed in order to place the feet beneath the seat.

S5.3.8 Accelerate the dynamic test platform to 17.3 +/-0.6 km/h. All of the points on the acceleration vs. time curve fall within the corridor described in Figure 1 and Table 1 when filtered to channel class 60, as specified in the SAE Recommended Practice J211/1 MAR95 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5). Measure the maximum posterior angular displacement.

S5.3.9 Calculate the angular displacement from the output of instrumentation placed in the torso and head of the test dummy and an algorithm capable of determining the relative angular displacement to within one degree and conforming to the requirements of a 600 Hz channel class, as specified in SAE Recommended Practice J211/1 MAR95 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5). No data generated after 200 ms from the beginning of the forward acceleration are used in determining angular displacement of the head with respect to the torso.

S5.3.10 Calculate the HICfrom the output of instrumentation placed in the head of the test dummy, using the equation in S4.3.1(b) of this section and conforming to the requirements for a 1000 Hz channel class as specified in SAE Recommended Practice J211/1 MAR95 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5). No data generated after 200 ms from the beginning of the forward acceleration are used in determining HIC.

S5.4 Procedures for folding or retracting head restraints for unoccupied rear outboard designated seating positions.

(a) Demonstrate compliance with S4.4 (a) of this section, using a 5th percentile female Hybrid III test dummy specified in 49 CFR part 572, subpart O, in accordance with the following procedure-

(1) Position the test dummy in the seat such that the dummy's midsaggital plane is aligned within the 15 mm of the head restraint centerline and is parallel to a vertical plane parallel to the vehicle longitudinal centerline.

(2) Hold the dummy's thighs down and push rearward on the upper torso to maximize the dummy's pelvic angle.

(3) Place the legs as close as possible to 90 degrees to the thighs. Push rearward on the dummy's knees to force the pelvis into the seat so there is no gap between the pelvis and the seat back or until contact occurs between the back of the dummy's calves and the front of the seat cushion such that the angle between the dummy's thighs and legs begins to change.

(4) Note the position of the head restraint. Remove the dummy from the seat. If the head restraint returns to a retracted position upon removal of the dummy, manually place it in the noted position. Determine compliance with the height requirements of S4.2.1 of this section by using the test procedures of S5.2.1 of this section.

(b) Demonstrate compliance with S4.4 (b) of this section in accordance with the following procedure:

(1) Place the rear head restraint in any position meeting the requirements of S4.2 of this section;

(2) Strike a line on the head restraint. Measure the angle or range of angles of the head restraint reference line as projected onto a vertical longitudinal vehicle plane. Alternatively, measure the torso reference line angle with the SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5) manikin;

(3) Fold or retract the head restraint to a position in which its minimum height is less than that specified in S4.2.1 (b) of this section;

(4) Determine the minimum change in the head restraint reference line angle as projected onto a vertical longitudinal vehicle plane from the angle or range of angles measured in 5.4(b)(2). Alternatively, determine the change in the torso reference line angle with the SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5) manikin.
