
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.206 Standard No. 206; Door locks and door retention components.
####### Door Hinges.

S4.1.2

S4.1.2.1 When tested in accordance with S5.1.2, each door hinge system shall:

(a) Support the door,

(b) Not separate when a longitudinal load of 11,000 N is applied,

(c) Not separate when a transverse load of 9,000 N is applied, and

(d) For back doors,

(1) Not separate when a load of 11,000 N is applied perpendicular to the hinge face plate (longitudinal load test) such that the hinge plates are not compressed against each other (Load Test One).

(2) Not separate when a load of 9,000 N is applied perpendicular to the axis of the hinge pin and parallel to the hinge face plate (transverse load test) such that the hinge plates are not compressed against each other (Load Test Two).

(3) Not separate when a load of 9,000 N is applied in the direction of the axis of the hinge pin (Load Test Three-only for back doors that open in a vertical direction).

S4.1.2.2 If a single hinge within the hinge system is tested instead of the entire hinge system, the hinge must bear a load proportional to the total number of hinges in the hinge system. (For example, an individual hinge in a two-hinge system must be capable of withstanding 50% of the load requirements of the total system.)

S4.1.2.3 On side doors with rear mounted hinges that can be operated independently of other doors,

(a) The interior door handle shall be inoperative when the speed of the vehicle is greater than or equal to 4 km/h, and

(b) A door closure warning system shall be provided for those doors. The door closure warning system shall be located where it can be clearly seen by the driver.
