
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.206 Standard No. 206; Door locks and door retention components.
####### Test Setup and Directions for Door Test.

(2)

(i) Test Setup.

(A) Mount the door assemblies, consisting of at least the door latch(es), exterior door handle(s) with mechanical latch operation, interior door opening lever(s), and locking device(s), either separately or combined to a test fixture. Each door and striker is mounted to the test fixture to correspond to its orientation on the vehicle and to the directions specified in b(1)(ii) of this paragraph.

(B) Mount the test fixture to the acceleration device, and install the equipment used to record door opening.

(C) Ensure that the door latch is in the fully-latched position, that the door is unlocked (doors may be tethered to avoid damaging the recording equipment), and that any windows, if provided, are closed.

(ii) Test Directions. (See Figure 7)

(A) Longitudinal Setup 1. Orient the door subsystem(s) on the acceleration device in the direction of a frontal impact.

(B) Longitudinal Setup 2. Orient the door subsystem(s) on the acceleration device in the direction of a rear impact.

(C) Transverse Setup 1. Orient the door subsystem(s) on the acceleration device in the direction of a driver-side impact.

(D) Transverse Setup 2. Orient the door subsystem(s) on the acceleration device in the direction opposite to that described in (b)(2)(ii)(C) of this paragraph.

(E) Vertical Setup 1 (applicable only to back doors that open in a vertical direction). Orient the door subsystem(s) on the acceleration device so that its vertical axis (when mounted in the vehicle) is aligned with the axis of the acceleration device, simulating a rollover impact where the force is applied in the direction from the top to the bottom of the door (when mounted in a vehicle).

(F) Vertical Setup 2 (applicable only to back doors that open in a vertical direction). Orient the door subsystem(s) on the acceleration device so that its vertical axis (when mounted in the vehicle) is aligned with the axis of the acceleration device, simulating a rollover impact where the force is applied in the direction opposite to that described in (b)(2)(ii)(E) of this paragraph.
