
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.206 Standard No. 206; Door locks and door retention components.
####### Test Setup.

S5.2.2.3

(a) Remove all interior trim and decorative components from the sliding door assembly.

(b) Remove seats and any interior components that may interfere with the mounting and operation of the test equipment and all pillar trim and any non-structural components that overlap the door and cause improper placement of the force application plates.

(c) Each force application device and associated support structure is rigidly fixed on a horizontal surface on the vehicle floor, while applying the loads.

(d) Determine the forward and aft edge of the sliding door, or its adjoining vehicle structure, that contains a latch/striker.

(e) Close the sliding door, ensuring that all door retention components are fully engaged.

(f) For any tested door edge that contains one latch/striker, the following set-up procedures are used:

(1)(i) The force application plate is 150 mm in length, 50 mm in width, and at least 15 mm in thickness. The plate edges are rounded to a radius of 6 mm +/-1 mm.

(ii) The plates are fixed perpendicular to the force application devices and move in the transverse direction. For alignment purposes, each plate is attached to the application device in a manner that allows for rotation about the vehicle's y-axis. In this manner, the face of each plate remains parallel to the vertical plane which passes through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline.

(2) Place the force application device and force application plate against the door so that the applied force is perpendicular to the vertical longitudinal plane that passes through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline, and vertically centered on the door-mounted portion of the latch/striker.

(3) The force application plate is positioned such that the long edge of the plate is as close to the interior edge of the door as possible, but not such that the forward edge of forward plate and the rear edge of the rear plate are more than 12.5 mm from the respective interior edges.

(g) For any tested door edge that contains more than one latch/striker, the following setup procedures are used:

(1)(i) The force application plate is 300 mm in length, 50 mm in width, and at least 15 mm in thickness. The plate edges are rounded to a radius of 6 mm +/-1 mm.

(ii) The plates are fixed perpendicular to the force application devices and move in the transverse direction. For alignment purposes, each plate is attached to the application device in a manner that allows for rotation about the vehicle's y-axis. In this manner, the face of each plate remains parallel to the vertical plane which passes through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline.

(2) Place the force application device and force application plate against the door so that the applied force is perpendicular to the vertical longitudinal plane that passes through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline, and vertically centered on a point mid-way between the outermost edges of the latch/striker assemblies.

(3) The force application plate is positioned such that the long edge of the plate is as close to the interior edge of the door as possible, but not such that the forward edge of forward plate and the rear edge of the rear plate are more than 12.5 mm from the respective interior edges.

(h) For any tested door edge that does not contain at least one latch/striker, the following set-up procedures are used:

(1)(i) The force application plate is 300 mm in length, 50 mm in width, and at least 15 mm in thickness. The plate edges are rounded to a radius of 6 mm +/-1 mm.

(ii) The plates are fixed perpendicular to the force application devices and move in the transverse direction. For alignment purposes, each plate is attached to the application device in a manner that allows for rotation about the vehicle's y-axis. In this manner, the face of each plate remains parallel to the vertical plane which passes through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline.

(2) Place the force application device and force application plate against the door so that the applied force is perpendicular to the vertical longitudinal plane that passes through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline, and vertically centered on a point mid-way along the length of the door edge ensuring that the loading device avoids contact with the window glazing.

(3) The force application plate is positioned such that the long edge of the plate is as close to the interior edge of the door as possible, but not such that the forward edge of forward plate and the rear edge of the rear plate are more than 12.5 mm from the respective interior edges.

(i) The door is unlocked. No extra fixtures or components may be welded or affixed to the sliding door or any of its components.

(j) Place the load application structure so that the force application plates are in contact with the interior of the sliding door.

(k) Apply a preload of 500 N to each actuator and "zero" the displacement measuring device.
