
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.207 Standard No. 207; Seating systems.
####### For a seat whose seat back and seat bench are attached to the vehicle by the same attachments.

S5.1.1(a) For a seat whose seat back and seat bench are attached to the vehicle by the same attachments and whose height is adjustable, the loads are applied when the seat is in its highest adjustment position in accordance with the procedure or procedures specified in S5.1.1(a)(1), S5.1.1(a)(2), or S5.1.1(a)(3), as appropriate.

(1) For a seat whose center of gravity is in a horizontal plane that is above the seat adjuster or that passes through any part of the adjuster, use, at the manufacturer's option, either S5.1.1(b) or, if physically possible, S5.1.1(c).

(2) For a seat specified in S5.1.1(a)(1) for which it is not physically possible to follow the procedure in S5.1.1(c), use S5.1.1(b).

(3) For a seat whose center of gravity is in a horizontal plane that is below the seat adjuster, use S5.1.1(c).

(4) For all other seats whose seat back and seat bench are attached to the vehicle by the same attachments, use S5.1.1(b).

(b) Secure a strut on each side of the seat from a point on the outside of the seat frame in the horizontal plane of the seat's center of gravity to a point on the frame as far forward as possible of the seat anchorages. Between the upper ends of the struts attach a rigid cross-member, in front of the seat back frame for rearward loading and behind the seat back frame for forward loading. Apply the force specified by S4.2(a) or S4.2(b) horizontally through the rigid cross-member as shown in Figure 1.

(c) Find "cg," the center of gravity of the portion of the seat that is above the lowest surface of the seat adjuster. On each side of the seat, secure a strut from a point on the outside of the seat frame in the horizontal plane of cgto a point on the frame as far forward as possible of the seat adjusted position. Between the upper ends of the struts attach a rigid cross-member, in front of the seat back frame for rearward loading and behind the seat back frame for forward loading. Find "cg," the center of gravity of the portion of the seat that is below the seat adjuster. Apply a force horizontally through cgequal to 20 times the weight of the portion of the seat represented by cg, and simultaneously apply a force horizontally through cgequal to 20 times the weight of the portion of the seat represented by cg.

S5.1.2 If the seat back and the seat bench are attached to the vehicle by different attachments, attach to each component a fixture capable of transmitting a force to that component. Apply forces, in newtons, equal to 20 times the mass of the seat back in kilograms multiplied by 9.8 m/shorizontally through the center of gravity of the seat back, as shown in Figure 2 and apply forces, in newtons, equal to 20 times the mass of the seat bench in kilograms multiplied by 9.8 m/shorizontally through the center of gravity of the seat bench, as shown in Figure 3.

S5.2 Develop the moment specified in S4.2(d) as shown in Figure 4.

S5.3 Apply the forces specified in S4.3.2.1(a) and (b) to a hinged or folding seat as shown in Figure 1 and to a hinged or folding seat back as shown in Figure 5.

S5.4 Determine the center of gravity of a seat or seat component with all cushions and upholstery in place and with the head restraint in its fully extended design position.
