
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Passenger cars produced by more than one manufacturer.

S4.1.3.5

S4.1.3.5.1 For the purposes of calculating average annual production of passenger cars for each manufacturer and the amount of passenger cars manufactured by each manufacturer under S4.1.3.1.2, S4.1.3.2.2 or S4.1.3.3.2, a passenger car produced by more than one manufacturer shall be attributed to a single manufacturer as follows, subject to S4.1.3.5.2:

(a) A passenger car which is imported shall be attributed to the importer.

(b) A passenger car manufactured in the United States by more than one manufacturer, one of which also markets the vehicle, shall be attributed to the manufacturer which markets the vehicle.

S4.1.3.5.2 A passenger car produced by more than one manufacturer shall be attributed to any one of the vehicle's manufacturers specified by an express written contract, reported to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration under 49 CFR part 585, between the manufacturer so specified and the manufacturer to which the vehicle would otherwise be attributed under S4.1.3.5.1.

S4.1.4 Passenger cars manufactured on or after September 1, 1989, but before September 1, 1996.

S4.1.4.1 Except as provided in S4.1.4.2, each passenger car manufactured on or after September 1, 1989 shall comply with the requirements of S4.1.2.1. Any passenger car manufactured on or after September 1, 1989 and before September 1, 1993 whose driver's designated seating position complies with the requirements of S4.1.2.1(a) by means not including any type of seat belt and whose right front designated seating position is equipped with a manual Type 2 seat belt so that the seating position complies with the occupant crash protection requirements of S5.1, with the Type 2 seat belt assembly adjusted in accordance with S7.4.2, shall be counted as a vehicle complying with S4.1.2.1. A vehicle shall not be deemed to be in noncompliance with this standard if its manufacturer establishes that it did not know in the exercise of due care that such vehicle is not in conformity with this standard.

S4.1.4.2 (a) Each passenger car, other than a convertible, manufactured before December 11, 1989 may be equipped with, and each passenger car, other than a convertible, manufactured on or after December 11, 1989 and before September 1, 1990 shall be equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly at every forward-facing rear outboard designated seating position. Type 2 seat belt assemblies installed pursuant to this provision shall comply with Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209) and with S7.1.1 of this standard.

(b) Except as provided in S4.1.4.2.1 and S4.1.4.2.2, each passenger car, other than a convertible, manufactured on or after September 1, 1990 and each convertible passenger car manufactured on or after September 1, 1991 shall be equipped with an integral Type 2 seat belt assembly at every forward-facing rear outboard designated seating position. Type 2 seat belt assemblies installed in compliance with this requirement shall comply with Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209) and with S7.1 an S7.2 of this standard. If a Type 2 seat belt assembly installed in compliance with this requirement incorporates any webbing tension-relieving device, the vehicle owner's manual shall include the information specified in S7.4.2(b) of this standard for the tension relieving device, and the vehicle shall comply with S7.4.2(c) of this standard.

(c) As used in this section, "rear outboard designated seating position" means any "outboard designated seating position" (as that term is defined at 49 CFR 571.3) that is rearward of the front seat(s), except any designated seating position adjacent to a walkway that is located between the seat and the near side of the vehicle and is designed to allow access to more rearward seating positions.

S4.1.4.2.1 Any rear outboard designated seating position with a seat that can be adjusted to be forward-facing and to face some other direction shall either:

(i) Meet the requirements of S4.1.4.2 with the seat in any position in which it can be occupied while the vehicle is in motion; or

(ii) When the seat is in its forward-facing position, have a Type 2 seat belt assembly with an upper torso restraint that conforms to S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard and that adjusts by means of an emergency locking retractor that conforms with Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209), which upper torso restraint may be detachable at the buckle, and, when the seat is in any position in which it can be occupied while the vehicle is in motion, have a Type 1 seat belt or the pelvic portion of a Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard.
