
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### For vehicles specified in S4.1.5.6 with only one outboard designated seating position and a single front inboard designated seating position, the vehicle shall at that position meet the requirements of S4.1.5.6.3 and S4.1.5.6.4.

S4.1.5.6.2The above specified vehicles with multiple front inboard designated seating position shall at one inboard position meet the requirements of S4.1.5.6.3 and S4.1.5.6.4 and at all other inboard positions meet the requirements of S4.1.5.6.5.

S4.1.5.6.3 As specified in S4.1.5.6.1 and S4.1.5.6.2, the vehicles shall meet the frontal crash protection requirements of S5.1.2(b) as specified for front outboard passenger designated seating positions by means of an inflatable restraint system that requires no action by vehicle occupants and the requirements of S14, as specified for front outboard passenger designated seating positions.

S4.1.5.6.4 As specified in S4.1.5.6.1 and S4.1.5.6.2, the designated seating positions have a Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to Standard No. 209 and S7.1 through S7.3 of this standard, as specified for front outboard passenger designated seating positions.

S4.1.5.6.5 As specified in S4.1.5.6.1 and S4.1.5.6.2, as appropriate, have a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to Standard No. 209 and S7.1 through S7.3 of this standard.

S4.1.5.6.6 As specified in S4.1.5.6.1 and S4.1.5.6.2, as appropriate, have a Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to Standard No. 209 and S7.1 through S7.3 of this standard, as specified for front outboard passenger designated seating positions.
