
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Rear seating positions in trucks, and multipurpose passenger vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2007 with a GVWR of 10,000 lbs. (4,536 kg) or less.

S4.2.7

S4.2.7.1 Except as provided in S4.2.7.2, S4.2.7.3, S4.2.7.4, S4.2.7.5, and S4.2.7.6, each truck and each multipurpose passenger vehicle, other than a motor home, a walk-in van-type truck, or a vehicle designed to be sold exclusively to the U.S. Postal Service with a GVWR of 10,000 lbs. (4,536 kg) or less, or a vehicle carrying chassis-mount camper with a gross vehicle weight rating of 8,500-10,000 lbs. (3,855-4,536 kg), shall be equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly at every rear designated seating position other than a side-facing position, except that Type 2 seat belt assemblies installed in compliance with this requirement shall conform to Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209) and with S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard. If a Type 2 seat belt assembly installed in conformity to this requirement incorporates any webbing tension-relieving device, the vehicle owner's manual shall include the information specified in S7.4.2(b) of this standard for the tension relieving device, and the vehicle shall conform to S7.4.2(c) of this standard. Side-facing designated seating positions shall be equipped, at the manufacturer's option, with a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms with S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard.

S4.2.7.2 Any rear designated seating position with a seat that can be adjusted to be forward-or rear-facing and to face some other direction shall either:

(a) Meet the requirements of S4.2.7.1 with the seat in any position in which it can be occupied while the vehicle is in motion; or

(b) When the seat is in its forward-facing and/or rear-facing position or within +/-30 degrees of either position, have a Type 2 seat belt assembly with an upper torso restraint that conforms to S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard and that adjusts by means of an emergency locking retractor that conforms to Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209), which upper torso restraint may be detachable at either the buckle or the upper anchorage, but not both, and, when the seat is in any other position in which it can be occupied while the vehicle is in motion, have a Type 1 seat belt or the pelvic portion of a Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard.

S4.2.7.3 Any rear designated seating position on a readily removable seat (i.e., a seat designed to be easily removed and replaced by means installed by the manufacturer for that purpose) may meet the requirements of S4.2.7.1 by use of a belt incorporating a release mechanism that detaches both the lap and shoulder portion at either the upper or lower anchorage point, but not both. The means of detachment shall be a key or key-like object.

S4.2.7.4 Any inboard designated seating position on a seat for which the entire seat back can be folded such that no part of the seat back extends above a horizontal plane located 250 mm above the highest SRP located on the seat may meet the requirements of S4.2.7.1 by use of a belt incorporating a release mechanism that detaches both the lap and shoulder portion at either the upper or lower anchorage point, but not both. The means of detachment shall be a key or key-like object.

S4.2.7.5 Any rear designated seating position adjacent to a walkway located between the seat and the side of the vehicle, which walkway is designed to allow access to more rearward designated seating positions may meet the requirements of S4.2.7.1 by use of a belt incorporating a release mechanism that detaches both the lap and shoulder portion at either the upper or lower anchorage point, but not both. The means of detachment shall be a key or key-like object.

S4.2.7.6 Any rear side-facing designated seating position shall have a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard.
