
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Buses with a GVWR of more than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb).

S4.4.5

S4.4.5.1 Each bus with a GVWR of more than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb), except a perimeter-seating bus, transit bus, or school bus, shall comply with the requirements of S4.4.5.1.1 and S4.4.5.1.2.

S4.4.5.1.1 The driver's designated seating position and any outboard designated seating position not rearward of the driver's seating position shall be equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly. The seat belt assembly shall comply with Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209) and with S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard. For a bus without a driver's designated seating position, any outboard designated seating position in the front row of seats, shall be equipped with Type 2 seat belt assemblies. If a seat belt assembly installed in compliance with this requirement includes an automatic locking retractor for the lap belt portion, that seat belt assembly shall comply with paragraphs (a) through (c) of S4.4.4.1.2 of this standard. If a seat belt assembly installed in compliance with this requirement incorporates any webbing tension-relieving device, the vehicle owner's manual shall include the information specified in S7.4.2(b) of this standard for the tension-relieving device, and the vehicle shall comply with S7.4.2(c) of this standard.

S4.4.5.1.2 Passenger seating positions, other than those specified in S4.4.5.1.1 and seating positions on prison buses rearward of the driver's seating position, shall:

(a) Other than for over-the-road buses:

(i) Be equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly at any seating position that is not a side-facing position;

(ii) Be equipped with a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly at any seating position that is a side-facing position;

(c) For over-the-road buses, be equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly;

(d) Have the seat belt assembly attached to the seat structure at any seating position that has another seating position, wheelchair position, or side emergency door behind it; and

(e) Comply with the requirements of S7.1.1.5, S7.1.1.6, S7.1.3, and S7.2 of this standard.

S4.4.5.2 Each perimeter-seating bus and transit bus with a GVWR of more than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb) shall meet the requirements of S4.4.4.1.1 or S4.4.4.1.2 (as specified for buses with a GVWR of more than 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) but not greater than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb)).

S4.4.5.3 Each school bus with a GVWR of more than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb) shall be equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly at the driver's designated seating position. The seat belt assembly shall comply with Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209) and with S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard. If a seat belt assembly installed in compliance with this requirement includes an automatic locking retractor for the lap belt portion, that seat belt assembly shall comply with paragraphs (a) through (c) of S4.4.4.1.2 of this standard. If a seat belt assembly installed in compliance with this requirement incorporates any webbing tension-relieving device, the vehicle owner's manual shall include the information specified in S7.4.2(b) of this standard for the tension-relieving device, and the vehicle shall comply with S7.4.2(c) of this standard.
