
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Buses with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) or less.

S4.4.3

S4.4.3.1 Except as provided in S4.4.3.1.1, S4.4.3.1.2, S4.4.3.1.3, S4.4.3.1.4 and S4.4.3.1.5, each bus with a gross vehicle weight rating of 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) or less, except a school bus or an over-the-road bus, shall be equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly at every designated seating position other than a side-facing position. Type 2 seat belt assemblies installed in compliance with this requirement shall conform to Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209) and with S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard. If a Type 2 seat belt assembly installed in compliance with this requirement incorporates a webbing tension relieving device, the vehicle owner's manual shall include the information specified in S7.4.2(b) of this standard for the tension relieving device, and the vehicle shall conform to S7.4.2(c) of this standard. Side-facing designated seating positions shall be equipped, at the manufacturer's option, with a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly.

S4.4.3.1.1 Any rear designated seating position with a seat that can be adjusted to be forward- or rear-facing and to face some other direction shall either:

(a) Meet the requirements of S4.4.3.1 with the seat in any position in which it can be occupied while the vehicle is in motion, or meet S4.4.3.1.1(b)(1) and S4.4.3.1.1(b)(2).

(b)(1) When the seat is in its forward-facing and/or rear-facing position, or within +/-30 degrees of either position, have a Type 2 seat belt assembly with an upper torso restraint that

(i) Conforms to S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard,

(ii) Adjusts by means of an emergency locking retractor conforming to Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209), and

(iii) May be detachable at the buckle or upper anchorage, but not both.

(2) When the seat is in any position in which it can be occupied while the vehicle is in motion, have a Type 1 seat belt or the pelvic portion of a Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard.

S4.4.3.1.2 Any rear designated seating position on a readily removable seat (that is, a seat designed to be easily removed and replaced by means installed by the manufacturer for that purpose) may meet the requirements of S4.4.3.1 by use of a belt incorporating a release mechanism that detaches both the lap and shoulder portion at either the upper or lower anchorage point, but not both. The means of detachment shall be a key or key-like object.

S4.4.3.1.3 Any inboard designated seating position on a seat for which the entire seat back can be folded such that no part of the seat back extends above a horizontal plane located 250 mm above the highest SRP located on the seat may meet the requirements of S4.4.3.1 by use of a belt incorporating a release mechanism that detaches both the lap and shoulder portion at either the upper or lower anchorage point, but not both. The means of detachment shall be a key or key-like object.

S4.4.3.1.4 Any rear designated seating position adjacent to a walkway located between the seat, which walkway is designed to allow access to more rearward designated seating positions, and not adjacent to the side of the vehicle may meet the requirements of S4.4.3.1 by use of a belt incorporating a release mechanism that detaches both the lap and shoulder portion at either the upper or lower anchorage point, but not both. The means of detachment shall be a key or key-like object.

S4.4.3.1.5 Any rear side-facing designated seating position shall be equipped with a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard.

S4.4.3.2 Each school bus with a gross vehicle weight rating of 4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) or less shall comply with the requirements of S4.4.3.2.1 and S4.4.3.2.2.

S4.4.3.2.1 The driver's designated seating position and any outboard designated seating position not rearward of the driver's seating position shall be equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly. For a school bus without a driver's designated seating position, the outboard designated seating positions in the front row of seats shall be equipped with Type 2 seat belt assemblies. The seat belt assembly shall comply with Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209) and with S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard. The lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly shall include either an emergency locking retractor or an automatic locking retractor. An automatic locking retractor shall not retract webbing to the next locking position until at leastinch of webbing has moved into the retractor. In determining whether an automatic locking retractor complies with this requirement, the webbing is extended to 75 percent of its length and the retractor is locked after the initial adjustment. If the seat belt assembly installed in compliance with this requirement incorporates any webbing tension-relieving device, the vehicle owner's manual shall include the information specified in S7.4.2(b) of this standard for the tension-relieving device, and the vehicle shall comply with S7.4.2(c) of this standard.

S4.4.3.2.2 Passenger seating positions, other than those specified in S4.4.3.2.1, shall be equipped with Type 2 seat belt assemblies that comply with the requirements of S7.1.1.5, S7.1.5 and S7.2 of this standard.

S4.4.3.3 Each over-the-road-bus with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) or less shall meet the requirements of S4.4.5.1 (as specified for buses with a GVWR or more than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb)).
