
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Second option-belt system.

S4.4.4.1.2The vehicle shall, at the driver's designated seating position and all designated seating positions in the front row of seats, if there is no driver's designated seating position, be equipped with either a Type 1 or a Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to ยง 571.209 of this part and S7.2 of this Standard. A Type 1 belt assembly or the pelvic portion of a dual retractor Type 2 belt assembly installed at these seating positions shall include either an emergency locking retractor or an automatic locking retractor. If a seat belt assembly includes an automatic locking retractor for the lap belt or the lap belt portion, that seat belt assembly shall comply with the following:

(a) An automatic locking retractor used at a driver's seating position that has some type of suspension system for the seat shall be attached to the seat structure that moves as the suspension system functions.

(b) The lap belt or lap belt portion of a seat belt assembly equipped with an automatic locking retractor that is installed at the driver's seating position must allow at least; inch, but less than 3 inches, of webbing movement before retracting webbing to the next locking position.

(c) Compliance with S4.4.4.2.1(b) of this standard is determined as follows:

(1) The seat belt assembly is buckled and the retractor end of the seat belt assembly is anchored to a horizontal surface. The webbing for the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly is extended to 75 percent of its length and the retractor is locked after the initial adjustment.

(2) A load of 20 pounds is applied to the free end of the lap belt or the lap belt portion of the belt assembly (i.e., the end that is not anchored to the horizontal surface) in the direction away from the retractor. The position of the free end of the belt assembly is recorded.

(3) Within a 30 second period, the 20 pound load is slowly decreased, until the retractor moves to the next locking position. The position of the free end of the belt assembly is recorded again.

(4) The difference between the two positions recorded for the free end of the belt assembly shall be at least; inch but less than 3 inches.

S4.4.4.2 Each school bus with a GVWR of more than 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) but not greater than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb) shall be equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly at the driver's designated seating position. The seat belt assembly shall comply with Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209) and with S7.1 and S7.2 of this standard. If a seat belt assembly installed in compliance with this requirement includes an automatic locking retractor for the lap belt portion, that seat belt assembly shall comply with paragraphs (a) through (c) of S4.4.4.1.2 of this standard. If a seat belt assembly installed in compliance with this requirement incorporates any webbing tension-relieving device, the vehicle owner's manual shall include the information specified in S7.4.2(b) of this standard for the tension-relieving device, and the vehicle shall comply with S7.4.2(c) of this standard.

S4.4.4.3 Each over-the-road-bus with a GVWR of more than 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) but not greater than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb) shall meet the requirements of S4.4.5.1 (as specified for buses with a GVWR or more than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb)).
