
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Automatic belts.

S4.5.3Except as provided in S4.5.3.1, a seat belt assembly that requires no action by vehicle occupants (hereinafter referred to as an "automatic belt") may be used to meet the crash protection requirements of any option under S4. and in place of any seat belt assembly otherwise required by that option.

S4.5.3.1. An automatic belt that provides only pelvic restraint may not be used pursuant to S4.5.3 to meet the requirements of an option that requires a Type 2 seat belt assembly. An automatic belt may not be used pursuant to S4.5.3 to meet the requirements of S4.1.5.1(a)(3) for a Type 2 seat belt assembly at any seating position equipped with an inflatable restraint system pursuant to S4.1.5.2, S4.1.5.3, S4.2.6.1, or S4.2.6.2 of this standard.

S4.5.3.2 An automatic belt, furnished pursuant to S4.5.3, that provides both pelvic and upper torso restraint may have either a detachable or nondetachable upper torso portion, notwithstanding provisions of the option under which it is furnished.

S4.5.3.3 An automatic belt furnished pursuant to S4.5.3 shall:

(a) Conform to S7.1 and have a single emergency release mechanism whose components are readily accessible to a seated occupant.

(b) In place of a warning system that conforms to S7.3 of this standard, be equipped with the following warning system: At the left front designated seating position (driver's position), a warning system that activates a continuous or intermittent audible signal for a period of not less than 4 seconds and not more than 8 seconds and that activates a continuous or flashing warning light visible to the driver for not less than 60 seconds (beginning when the vehicle ignition switch is moved to the "on" or the "start" position) when condition (A) exists simultaneously with condition (B), and that activates a continuous or flashing warning light, visible to the driver, displaying the identifying symbol for the seat belt telltale shown in Table 2 of Standard No. 101 (49 CFR 571.101), or, at the option of the manufacturer if permitted by Standard No. 101, displaying the words "Fasten Seat Belts" or "Fasten Belts," for as long as condition (A) exists simultaneously with condition (C).

(A) The vehicle's ignition switch is moved to the "on" position or to the "start" position.

(B) The driver's automatic belt is not in use, as determined by the belt latch mechanism not being fastened, or, if the automatic belt is non-detachable, by the emergency release mechanism being in the released position. In the case of motorized automatic belts, the determination of use shall be made once the belt webbing is in its locked protective mode at the anchorage point.

(C) The belt webbing of a motorized automatic belt system is not in its locked, protective mode at the anchorage point.

S4.5.3.4 An automatic belt furnished pursuant to S4.5.3 that is not required to meet the perpendicular frontal crash protection requirements of S5.1 shall conform to the webbing, attachment hardware, and assembly performance requirements of Standard No. 209.

S4.5.3.5 A replacement automatic belt shall meet the requirements of S4.1(k) of Standard No. 209.
