
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Label on the dashboard.

(e)(1) Except as provided in S4.5.1(e)(2) or S4.5.1(e)(3), each vehicle that is equipped with an inflatable restraint for the passenger position shall have a label attached to a location on the dashboard or the steering control hub that is clearly visible from all front seating positions. The label need not be permanently affixed to the vehicle. This label shall conform in content to the label shown in Figure 7 of this standard, and shall comply with the requirements of S4.5.1(e)(1)(i) through S4.5.1(e)(1)(iii).

(i) The heading area shall be yellow with the word "WARNING" and the alert symbol in black.

(ii) The message area shall be white with black text. The message area shall be no less than 30 cm(4.7 in).

(iii) If the vehicle does not have a back seat, the label shown in Figure 7 may be modified by omitting the statement: "The back seat is the safest place for children 12 and under."

(2) Vehicles certified to meet the requirements specified in S19, S21, and S23 before December 1, 2003, that are equipped with an inflatable restraint for the passenger position shall have a label attached to a location on the dashboard or the steering control hub that is clearly visible from all front seating positions. The label need not be permanently affixed to the vehicle. This label shall conform in content to the label shown in either Figure 9 or Figure 12 of this standard, at manufacturer's option, and shall comply with the requirements of S4.5.1(e)(2)(i) through S4.5.1(e)(2)(iv).

(i) The heading area shall be yellow with black text.

(ii) The message area shall be white with black text. The message area shall be no less than 30 cm(4.7 in).

(iii) If the vehicle does not have a back seat, the labels shown in Figures 9 and 12 may be modified by omitting the statement: "The back seat is the safest place for children."

(iv) If the vehicle does not have a back seat or the back seat is too small to accommodate a rear-facing child restraint consistent with S4.5.4.1, the label shown in Figure 12 may be modified by omitting the statement: "Never put a rear-facing child seat in the front."

(3) Vehicles certified to meet the requirements specified in S19, S21, and S23 on or after December 1, 2003, that are equipped with an inflatable restraint for the passenger position shall have a label attached to a location on the dashboard or the steering control hub that is clearly visible from all front seating positions. The label need not be permanently affixed to the vehicle. This label shall conform in content to the label shown in Figure 12 of this standard and shall comply with the requirements of S4.5.1(e)(3)(i) through S4.5.1(e)(3)(iv).

(i) The heading area shall be yellow with black text.

(ii) The message area shall be white with black text. The message area shall be no less than 30 cm(4.7 in).

(iii) If the vehicle does not have a back seat, the label shown in Figure 12 may be modified by omitting the statement: "The back seat is the safest place for children."

(iv) If the vehicle does not have a back seat or the back seat is too small to accommodate a rear-facing child restraint consistent with S4.5.4.1, the label shown in Figure 12 may be modified by omitting the statement: "Never put a rear-facing child seat in the front."
