
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Passenger air bag manual cut-off device.

S4.5.4Passenger cars, trucks, buses, and multipurpose passenger vehicles manufactured before September 1, 2012 may be equipped with a device that deactivates the air bag installed at the right front outboard seating position in the vehicle, if all the conditions in S4.5.4.1 through S4.5.4.4 are satisfied.

S4.5.4.1 The vehicle complies with either S4.5.4.1(a) or S4.5.4.1(b).

(a) The vehicle has no forward-facing designated seating positions to the rear of the front seating positions.

(b) With the seats and seat backs adjusted as specified in S8.1.2 and S8.1.3, the distance, measured along a longitudinal horizontal line tangent to the highest point of the rear seat bottom in the longitudinal vertical plane described in either S4.5.4.1(b)(1) or S4.5.4.1(b)(2), between the rearward surface of the front seat back and the forward surface of the rear seat back is less than 720 millimeters.

(1) In a vehicle equipped with front bucket seats, the vertical plane at the centerline of the driver's seat cushion.

(2) In a vehicle equipped with front bench seating, the vertical plane which passes through the center of the steering wheel rim.

S4.5.4.2 The device is operable by means of the ignition key for the vehicle. The device shall be separate from the ignition switch for the vehicle, so that the driver must take some action with the ignition key other than inserting it or turning it in the ignition switch to deactivate the passenger air bag. Once deactivated, the passenger air bag shall remain deactivated until it is reactivated by means of the device.

S4.5.4.3 A telltale light in the interior of the vehicle shall be illuminated whenever the passenger air bag is turned off by means of the on-off switch. The telltale shall be clearly visible to occupants of all front seating positions. "Clearly visible" means within the normal range of vision throughout normal driving operations. The telltale:

(a) Shall be yellow;

(b) Shall have the identifying words "PASSENGER AIR BAG OFF" or "PASS AIR BAG OFF" on the telltale or within 25 millimeters of the telltale;

(c) Shall remain illuminated for the entire time that the air bag is "off";

(d) Shall not be illuminated at any time when the air bag is "on"; and,

(e) Shall not be combined with the readiness indicator required by S4.5.2 of this standard.

S4.5.4.4 The vehicle owner's manual shall provide, in a readily understandable format:

(a) Complete instructions on the operation of the on-off switch;

(b) A statement that the on-off switch should only be used when a member of a passenger risk group identified in the request form in appendix B to part 595 of this chapter is occupying the right front passenger seating position; and,

(c) A warning about the safety consequences of using the on-off switch at other times.
