
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Dynamic testing of manual belt systems.

S4.6

S4.6.1 Each truck and multipurpose passenger vehicle with a GVWR of 8,500 pounds or less and an unloaded weight of less than 5,500 pounds that is manufactured on or after September 1, 1991, and is equipped with a Type 2 seat belt assembly at a front outboard designated seating position pursuant to S4.1.2.3 shall meet the frontal crash protection requirements of S5.1 at those designated seating positions with a test dummy restrained by a Type 2 seat belt assembly that has been adjusted in accordance with S7.4.2. A vehicle shall not be deemed to be in noncompliance with this standard if its manufacturer establishes that it did not have reason to know in the exercise of due care that such vehicle is not in conformity with the requirement of this standard.

S4.6.2 Any manual seat belt assembly subject to the requirements of S5.1 of this standard by virtue of any provision of this standard other than S4.1.2.1(c)(2) does not have to meet the requirements of S4.2(a)-(f) and S4.4 of Standard No. 209 (ยง 571.209).

S4.6.3 Any manual seat belt assembly subject to the requirements of S5.1 of this standard by virtue of S4.1.2.1(c)(2) does not have to meet the elongation requirements of S4.2(c), S4.4(a)(2), S4.4(b)(4), and S4.4(b)(5) of Standard No. 209 (ยง 571.209).

S4.7 [Reserved]
