
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Test duration for purpose of measuring injury criteria.

S4.11

(a) For all barrier crashes, the injury criteria specified in this standard shall be met when calculated based on data recorded for 300 milliseconds after the vehicle strikes the barrier.

(b) For the 3-year-old and 6-year-old child dummy low risk deployment tests, the injury criteria specified in this standard shall be met when calculated on data recorded for 100 milliseconds after the initial deployment of the air bag.

(c) For 12-month-old infant dummy low risk deployment tests, the injury criteria specified in the standard shall be met when calculated on data recorded for 125 milliseconds after the initiation of the final stage of air bag deployment designed to deploy in any full frontal rigid barrier crash up to 64 km/h (40 mph).

(d) For driver dummy low risk deployment tests, the injury criteria shall be met when calculated based on data recorded for 125 milliseconds after the initiation of the final stage of air bag deployment designed to deploy in any full frontal rigid barrier crash up to 26 km/h (16 mph).

(e) The requirements for dummy containment shall continue until both the vehicle and the dummies have ceased moving.
