
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Adjustment.

S7.1

S7.1.1 Except as specified in S7.1.1.1 and S7.1.1.2, the lap belt of any seat belt assembly furnished in accordance with S4.1.2 shall adjust by means of any emergency-locking or automatic-locking retractor that conforms to § 571.209 to fit persons whose dimensions range from those of a 50th percentile 6-year-old child to those of a 95th percentile adult male and the upper torso restraint shall adjust by means of an emergency-locking retractor or a manual adjusting device that conforms to § 571.209 to fit persons whose dimensions range from those of a 5th percentile adult female to those of a 95th percentile adult male, with the seat in any position, the seat back in the manufacturer's nominal design riding position, and any adjustable anchorages adjusted to the manufacturer's nominal design position for a 50th percentile adult male occupant. However, an upper torso restraint furnished in accordance with S4.1.2.3.1(a) shall adjust by means of an emergency-locking retractor that conforms to § 571.209.

S7.1.1.1 A seat belt assembly installed at the driver's seating position shall adjust to fit persons whose dimensions range from those of a 5th-percentile adult female to those of a 95th-percentile adult male.

S7.1.1.2 (a) A seat belt assembly installed in a motor vehicle other than a forward control vehicle at any designated seating position other than the outboard positions of the front and second seats shall adjust either by a retractor as specified in S7.1.1 or by a manual adjusting device that conforms to § 571.209.

(b) A seat belt assembly installed in a forward control vehicle at any designated seating position other than the front outboard seating positions shall adjust either by a retractor as specified in S7.1.1 or by a manual adjusting device that conforms to § 571.209.

(c) A seat belt assembly installed in a forward-facing rear outboard seating position in a law enforcement vehicle shall adjust either by a retractor as specified in S7.1.1 or by a manual adjusting device that conforms to § 571.209.

S7.1.1.3 A Type 1 lap belt or the lap belt portion of any Type 2 seat belt assembly installed at any forward-facing outboard designated seating position of a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less to comply with a requirement of this standard, except walk-in van-type vehicles and school buses, and except in rear seating positions in law enforcement vehicles, shall meet the requirements of S7.1 by means of an emergency locking retractor that conforms to Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209).

S7.1.1.4 Notwithstanding the other provisions of S7.1-S7.1.1.3, emergency-locking retractors on belt assemblies located in positions other than front outboard designated seating postions may be equipped with a manual webbing adjustment device capable of causing the retractor that adjusts the lap belt to lock when the belt is buckled.

S7.1.1.5 Passenger cars, and trucks, buses, and multipurpose passenger vehicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) or less manufactured on or after September 1, 1995 and buses with a GVWR of more than 11,793 kg (26,000 pounds) manufactured on or after November 28, 2016, except a perimeter-seating bus, prison bus, school bus, or transit bus, shall meet the requirements of S7.1.1.5(a), S7.1.1.5(b) and S7.1.1.5(c).

(a) Each designated seating position, except the driver's designated seating position, and except any right front seating position that is equipped with an automatic belt, that is in any motor vehicle, except walk-in van-type vehicles and vehicles manufactured to be sold exclusively to the U.S. Postal Service, and that is forward-facing or can be adjusted to be forward-facing, shall have a seat belt assembly whose lap belt portion is lockable so that the seat belt assembly can be used to tightly secure a child restraint system. The means provided to lock the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly shall not consist of any device that must be attached by the vehicle user to the seat belt webbing, retractor, or any other part of the vehicle. Additionally, the means provided to lock the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly shall not require any inverting, twisting or otherwise deforming of the belt webbing.

(b) If the means provided pursuant to S7.1.1.5(a) to lock the lap belt or lap belt portion of any seat belt assembly makes it necessary for the vehicle user to take some action to activate the locking feature, the vehicle owner's manual shall include a description in words and/or diagrams describing how to activate the locking feature so that the seat belt assembly can tightly secure a child restraint system and how to deactivate the locking feature to remove the child restraint system.

(c) Except for seat belt assemblies that have no retractor or that are equipped with an automatic locking retractor, compliance with S7.1.1.5(a) is demonstrated by the following procedure:

(1) With the seat in any adjustment position, buckle the seat belt assembly. Complete any procedures recommended in the vehicle owner's manual, pursuant to S7.1.1.5(b), to activate any locking feature for the seat belt assembly.

(2) Locate a reference point A on the safety belt buckle. Locate a reference point B on the attachment hardware or retractor assembly at the other end of the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly. Adjust the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly pursuant to S7.1.1.5(c)(1) as necessary so that the webbing between points A and B is at the maximum length allowed by the belt system. Measure and record the distance between points A and B along the longitudinal centerline of the webbing for the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly.

(3) Readjust the belt system so that the webbing between points A and B is at any length that is 5 inches or more shorter than the maximum length of the webbing.

(4) Apply a pre-load of 10 pounds, using the webbing tension pull device described in Figure 5 of this standard, to the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly in a vertical plane parallel to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle and passing through the seating reference point of the designated seating position whose belt system is being tested. Apply the pre-load in a horizontal direction toward the front of the vehicle with a force application angle of not less than 5 degrees nor more than 15 degrees above the horizontal. Measure and record the length of belt between points A and B along the longitudinal centerline of the webbing for the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly while the pre-load is being applied.

(5) Apply a load of 50 pounds, using the webbing tension pull device described in Figure 5 of this standard, to the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly in a vertical plane parallel to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle and passing through the seating reference point of the designated seating position whose belt system is being tested. The load is applied in a horizontal direction toward the front of the vehicle with a force application angle of not less than 5 degrees nor more than 15 degrees above the horizontal at an onset rate of not more than 50 pounds per second. Attain the 50 pound load in not more than 5 seconds. If webbing sensitive emergency locking retroactive are installed as part of the lap belt assembly or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly, apply the load at a rate less than the threshold value for lock-up specified by the manufacturer. Maintain the 50 pound load for at least 5 seconds before the measurements specified in S7.1.1.5(c)(6) are obtained and recorded.

(6) Measure and record the length of belt between points A and B along the longitudinal centerline of the webbing for the lap belt or lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly.

(7) The difference between the measurements recorded under S7.1.1.5(c) (6) and (4) shall not exceed 2 inches.

(8) The difference between the measurements recorded under S7.1.1.5(c) (6) and (2) shall be 3 inches or more.
