
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Passenger seats, other than any outboard designated seating position not rearward of the driver's seating position, in buses with a GVWR of more than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb) manufactured on or after,.

S7.1.1.6November 28, 2016The lap belt of any seat belt assembly on any passenger seat in each bus with a GVWR of more than 11,793 kg (26,000 lb), except a perimeter-seating bus, prison bus, school bus, or transit bus, shall adjust by means of any emergency-locking retractor that conforms to 49 CFR 571.209 to fit persons whose dimensions range from those of a 50th percentile 6-year-old child to those of a 95th percentile adult male and the upper torso restraint shall adjust by means of an emergency-locking retractor that conforms to 49 CFR 571.209 to fit persons whose dimensions range from those of a 5th percentile adult female to those of a 95th percentile adult male, with the seat in any position, the seat back in the manufacturer's nominal design riding position, and any adjustable anchorages adjusted to the manufacturer's nominal design position for a 50th percentile adult male occupant.

S7.1.2 Except as provided in S7.1.2.1, S7.1.2.2, and S7.1.2.3, for each Type 2 seat belt assembly which is required by Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 571.208), the upper anchorage, or the lower anchorage nearest the intersection of the torso belt and the lap belt, shall include a movable component which has a minimum of two adjustment positions. The distance between the geometric center of the movable component at the two extreme adjustment positions shall be not less than five centimeters, measured linearly. If the component required by this paragraph must be manually moved between adjustment positions, information shall be provided in the owner's manual to explain how to adjust the seat belt and warn that misadjustment could reduce the effectiveness of the safety belt in a crash.

S7.1.2.1 As an alternative to meeting the requirement of S7.1.2, a Type 2 seat belt assembly shall provide a means of automatically moving the webbing in relation to either the upper anchorage, or the lower anchorage nearest the intersection of the torso belt and the lap belt. The distance between the midpoint of the webbing at the contact point of the webbing and the anchorage at the extreme adjustment positions shall be not less than five centimeters, measured linearly.

S7.1.2.2 The requirements of S7.1.2 do not apply the anchorages of a Type 2 seat belt assembly installed:

(a) At a seat which is adjustable fore and aft while the vehicle is in motion and whose seat frame above the fore-and-aft adjuster is part of each of the assembly's seat belt anchorages, as defined in S3 of Standard No. 210 (49 CFR 571.210).

(b) At a seat that is not adjustable fore and aft while the vehicle is in motion.

S7.1.2.3 The requirements of S7.1.2 do not apply to any truck with a gross vehicle weight rating of more than 8,500 pounds manufactured before January 1, 1998.

S7.1.3 The intersection of the upper torso belt with the lap belt in any Type 2 seat belt assembly furnished in accordance with S4.1.1 or S4.1.2, with the upper torso manual adjusting device, if provided, adjusted in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, shall be at least 6 inches from the front vertical centerline of a 50th-percentile adult male occupant, measured along the centerline of the lap belt, with the seat in its rearmost and lowest adjustable position and with the seat back in the manufacturer's nominal design riding position.

S7.1.4 The weights and dimensions of the vehicle occupants referred to in this standard are as follows:
