
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Latch mechanism.

S7.2Except as provided in S7.2(e), each seat belt assembly installed in any vehicle shall have a latch mechanism that complies with the requirements specified in S7.2(a) through (d).

(a) The components of the latch mechanism shall be accessible to a seated occupant in both the stowed and operational positions;

(b) The latch mechanism shall release both the upper torso restraint and the lap belt simultaneously, if the assembly has a lap belt and an upper torso restraint that require unlatching for release of the occupant;

(c) The latch mechanism shall release at a single point; and;

(d) The latch mechanism shall release by a pushbutton action.

(e) The requirements of S7.2 do not apply to any automatic belt assembly. The requirements specified in S7.2(a) through (c) do not apply to any safety belt assembly installed at a forward-facing rear outboard seating position in a law enforcement vehicle.

S7.3 (a) A seat belt assembly provided at the driver's seating position shall be equipped with a warning system that, at the option of the manufacturer, either-

(1) Activates a continuous or intermittent audible signal for a period of not less than 4 seconds and not more than 8 seconds and that activates a continuous or flashing warning light visible to the driver displaying the identifying symbol for the seat belt telltale shown in Table 2 of FMVSS 101 or, at the option of the manufacturer if permitted by FMVSS 101, displaying the words "Fasten Seat Belts" or "Fasten Belts", for not less than 60 seconds (beginning when the vehicle ignition switch is moved to the "on" or the "start" position) when condition (b) exists simultaneously with condition (c), or that

(2) Activates, for a period of not less than 4 seconds and not more than 8 seconds (beginning when the vehicle ignition switch is moved to the "on" or the "start" position), a continuous or flashing warning light visible to the driver, displaying the identifying symbol of the seat belt telltale shown in Table 2 of FMVSS 101 or, at the option of the manufacturer if permitted by FMVSS 101, displaying the words "Fasten Seat Belts" or "Fasten Belts", when condition (b) exists, and a continuous or intermittent audible signal when condition (b) exists simultaneously with condition (c).

(b) The vehicle's ignition switch is moved to the "on" position or to the "start" position.

(c) The driver's lap belt is not in use, as determined, at the option of the manufacturer, either by the belt latch mechanism not being fastened, or by the belt not being extended at least 4 inches from its stowed position.
