
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Webbing tension-relieving device.

S7.4.2Each vehicle with an automatic seat belt assembly or with a Type 2 manual seat belt assembly that must meet the occupant crash protection requirements of S5.1 of this standard installed at a front outboard designated seating position, and each vehicle with a Type 2 manual seat belt assembly installed at a rear outboard designated seating position in compliance with a requirement of this standard, that has either automatic or manual tension-relieving devices permitting the introduction of slack in the webbing of the shoulder belt (e.g., "comfort clips" or "window-shade" devices) shall:

(a) Comply with the requirements of S5.1 with the shoulder belt webbing adjusted to introduce the maximum amount of slack recommended by the vehicle manufacturer pursuant to S7.4.2(b).

(b) Have a section in the vehicle owner's manual that explains how the tension-relieving device works and specifies the maximum amount of slack (in inches) recommended by the vehicle manufacturer to be introduced into the shoulder belt under normal use conditions. The explanation shall also warn that introducing slack beyond the amount specified by the manufacturer could significantly reduce the effectiveness of the shoulder belt in a crash; and

(c) Have, except for open-body vehicles with no doors, an automatic means to cancel any shoulder belt slack introduced into the belt system by a tension-relieving device. In the case of an automatic safety belt system, cancellation of the tension-relieving device shall occur each time the adjacent vehicle door is opened. In the case of a manual seat belt required to meet S5.1, cancellation of the tension-relieving device shall occur, at the manufacturer's option, either each time the adjacent door is opened or each time the latchplate is released from the buckle. In the case of a Type 2 manual seat belt assembly installed at a rear outboard designated seating position, cancellation of the tension-relieving device shall occur, at the manufacturer's option either each time the door designed to allow the occupant of that seating position entry and egress of the vehicle is opened or each time the latchplate is released from the buckle. In the case of open-body vehicles with no doors, cancellation of the tension-relieving device may be done by a manual means.
