
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Anthropomorphic test dummies.

S8.1.8

S8.1.8.1 The anthropomorphic test dummies used for evaluation of occupant protection systems manufactured pursuant to applicable portions of S4.1.2, S4.1.3, and S4.1.4 of this standard shall conform to the requirements of subpart E of part 572 of this chapter.

S8.1.8.2 Each test dummy is clothed in a form fitting cotton stretch short sleeve shirt with above-the-elbow sleeves and above-the-knee length pants. The weight of the shirt or pants shall not exceed 0.25 pounds each. Each foot of the test dummy is equipped with a size 11XW shoe which meets the configuration size, sole, and heel thickness specifications of MIL-S-13192P (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5) change "P" and whose weight is 1.25 +/-0.2 pounds.

S8.1.8.3 Limb joints are set at 1g, barely restraining the weight of the limb when extended horizontally. Leg joints are adjusted with the torso in the supine position.

S8.1.8.4 Instrumentation does not affect the motion of the dummies during impact or rollover.

S8.1.8.5 The stabilized test temperature of the test dummy is at any temperature level between 69 degrees F and 72 degrees F, inclusive.
