
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Lateral moving barrier crash test conditions.

S8.2The following conditions apply to the lateral moving barrier crash test.

S8.2.1 The moving barrier, including the impact surface, supporting structure, and carriage, weighs 4,000 pounds.

S8.2.2 The impact surface of the barrier is a vertical, rigid, flat rectangle, 78 inches wide and 60 inches high, perpendicular to its direction of movement, with its lower edge horizontal and 5 inches above the ground surface.

S8.2.3 During the entire impact sequence the barrier undergoes no significant amount of dynamic or static deformation, and absorbs no significant portion of the energy resulting from the impact, except for energy that results in translational rebound movement of the barrier.

S8.2.4 During the entire impact sequence the barrier is guided so that it travels in a straight line, with no significant lateral, vertical or rotational movement.

S8.2.5 The concrete surface upon which the vehicle is tested is level, rigid and of uniform construction, with a skid number of 75 when measured in accordance with ASTM E274-65T (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5) at 40 m.p.h., omitting water delivery as specified in paragraph 7.1 of that method.

S8.2.6 The tested vehicle's brakes are disengaged and the transmission is in neutral.

S8.2.7 The barrier and the test vehicle are positioned so that at impact-

(a) The vehicle is at rest in its normal attitude;

(b) The barrier is traveling in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle at 20 m.p.h.; and

(c) A vertical plane through the geometric center of the barrier impact surface and perpendicular to that surface passes through the driver's seating position seating reference point in the tested vehicle.
