
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Seat belt guides and hardware.

S7.4.6

S7.4.6.1 (a) Any manual seat belt assembly whose webbing is designed to pass through the seat cushion or between the seat cushion and seat back shall be designed to maintain one of the following three seat belt parts (the seat belt latchplate, the buckle, or the seat belt webbing) on top of or above the seat cushion under normal conditions (i.e., conditions other than when belt hardware is intentionally pushed behind the seat by a vehicle occupant). In addition, the remaining two seat belt parts must be accessible under normal conditions.

(b) The requirements of S7.4.6.1(a) do not apply to: (1) seats whose seat cushions are movable so that the seat back serves a function other than seating, (2) seats which are removable, or (3) seats which are movable so that the space formerly occupied by the seat can be used for a secondary function.

S7.4.6.2 The buckle and latchplate of a manual seat belt assembly subject to S7.4.6.1 shall not pass through the guides or conduits provided for in S7.4.6.1 and fall behind the seat when the events listed below occur in the order specified: (a) The belt is completely retracted or, if the belt is nonretractable, the belt is unlatched; (b) the seat is moved to any position to which it is designed to be adjusted; and (c) the seat back, if foldable, is folded forward as far as possible and then moved backward into position. The inboard receptacle end of a seat belt assembly installed at a front outboard designated seating position shall be accessible with the center arm rest in any position to which it can be adjusted (without having to move the armrest).
