
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Rollover test conditions.

S8.3The following conditions apply to the rollover test.

S8.3.1 The tested vehicle's brakes are disengaged and the transmission is in neutral.

S8.3.2 The concrete surface on which the test is conducted is level, rigid, of uniform construction, and of a sufficient size that the vehicle remains on it throughout the entire rollover cycle. It has a skid number of 75 when measured in accordance with ASTM E274-65T (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5) at 40 m.p.h. omitting water delivery as specified in paragraph 7.1 of that method.

S8.3.3 The vehicle is placed on a device, similar to that illustrated in Figure 2, having a platform in the form of a flat, rigid plane at an angle of 23&#xB0; from the horizontal. At the lower edge of the platform is an unyielding flange, perpendicular to the platform with a height of 4 inches and a length sufficient to hold in place the tires that rest against it. The intersection of the inner face of the flange with the upper face of the platform is 9 inches above the rollover surface. No other restraints are used to hold the vehicle in position during the deceleration of the platform and the departure of the vehicle.

S8.3.4 With the vehicle on the test platform, the test devices remain as nearly as possible in the posture specified in S8.1.

S8.3.5 Before the deceleration pulse, the platform is moving horizontally, and perpendicularly to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle, at a constant speed of 30 m.p.h. for a sufficient period of time for the vehicle to become motionless relative to the platform.

S8.3.6 The platform is decelerated from 30 to 0 m.p.h. in a distance of not more than 3 feet, without change of direction and without transverse or rotational movement during the deceleration of the platform and the departure of the vehicle. The deceleration rate is at least 20g for a minimum of 0.04 seconds.
