
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Processing an application for a temporary exemption.

S12.6(a) NHTSA will process any application for temporary exemption that contains the information specified in S12.4 and S12.5. If an application fails to provide the information specified in S12.4 and S12.5, NHTSA will not process the application, but will advise the manufacturer of the information that must be provided if the agency is to process the application.

(b) Notice of each application for temporary exemption shall be published in the

(c) NHTSA will issue its decision to grant or deny the requested temporary exemption not later than 15 days after the agency receives a complete petition, as defined in paragraph (a). However, a failure to issue a decision within this time does not result in a grant of the petition.

(d) Notice of each decision to grant or deny a temporary exemption, and the reasons for granting or denying it, will be published in the

(e) The Administrator may attach such conditions as he or she deems appropriate to a temporary exemption, including but not limited to requiring manufacturers to provide progress reports at specified times (including, as appropriate and to the extent possible, estimate of dates and times concerning when a supply disruption will be corrected and when recall will take place) and requiring manufacturers to take specific steps to ensure that as many exempted vehicles as possible will be returned for installation of missing inflatable restraint systems.

(f) Unless a later effective date is specified in a notice announcing an agency decision to grant a temporary exemption, a temporary exemption from the inflatable restraint requirement will become effective upon the date the decision is issued.
