
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Labels and written notice announcing temporary exemption.

S12.7

S12.7.1 It shall be a condition of every temporary exemption from the inflatable restraint requirement that the manufacturer of exempted vehicles comply with the provisions of S12.7.2 and S12.7.3.

S12.7.2 (a) The manufacturer of any vehicle granted a temporary exemption from the inflatable restraint requirement shall affix a label within the passenger compartment of such vehicle. The label shall set forth the following information in block capital letters and numerals not less than three thirty-seconds of an inch high:

(b) This label shall not be removed until after the vehicle manufacturer has recalled the vehicle and installed an inflatable restraint system at those seating positions for which it was granted an exemption.

S12.7.3 The manufacturer of any vehicle that is delivered without an inflatable restraint system, pursuant to a temporary exemption granted under this section, shall, at the time of delivery of the vehicle, provide a written notice to the dealer to whom the vehicle is delivered. The manufacturer shall also provide a written notice by registered mail to the first purchaser of the vehicle for purposes other than resale, within two weeks after purchase. Unless otherwise provided for by the Administrator in the exemption, such notice shall provide the following information:

(a) This vehicle does not conform to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 208, because it is not equipped with an inflatable restraint at (insert the affected seating positions).

(b) The vehicle was allowed to be sold pursuant to NHTSA Exemption No. (insert appropriate exemption number).

(c) The reason this vehicle was exempted from the requirement for an inflatable restraint was because of factors beyond the manufacturer's control.

(d) The manufacturer will recall this vehicle not later than (insert the time set forth in the exemption) and install the missing inflatable restraint at no charge.

(e) If the reader has any questions or would like some further information, he or she may contact the manufacturer at (insert an address and telephone number).
