
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### General provisions and definitions.

S16.3.1

S16.3.1.1 All angles are measured with respect to the horizontal plane unless otherwise stated.

S16.3.1.2 The dummy's neck bracket is adjusted to align the zero degree index marks.

S16.3.1.3 The term "midsagittal plane" refers to the vertical plane that separates the dummy into equal left and right halves.

S16.3.1.4 The term "vertical longitudinal plane" refers to a vertical plane parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline.

S16.3.1.5 The term "vertical plane" refers to a vertical plane, not necessarily parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline.

S16.3.1.6 The term "transverse instrumentation platform" refers to the transverse instrumentation surface inside the dummy's skull casting to which the neck load cell mounts. This surface is perpendicular to the skull cap's machined inferior-superior mounting surface.

S16.3.1.7 The term "thigh" refers to the femur between, but not including, the knee and the pelvis.

S16.3.1.8 The term "leg" refers to the lower part of the entire leg, including the knee.

S16.3.1.9 The term "foot" refers to the foot, including the ankle.

S16.3.1.10 The longitudinal centerline of a bucket seat cushion is defined by a vertical plane that passes through the SgRP and is parallel to the longitudinal centerline of the vehicle.

S16.3.1.11 For leg and thigh angles, use the following references:
