
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Seat position adjustment.

S16.2.10.3If the front right outboard passenger seat does not adjust independently of the front left outboard seat, the front left outboard seat shall control the final position of the front right outboard passenger seat. If an inboard passenger seat does not adjust independently of an outboard seat, the outboard seat shall control the final position of the inboard passenger seat.

S16.2.10.3.1 Using only the controls that primarily move the seat and seat cushion independent of the seat back in the fore and aft directions, move the seat cushion reference point (SCRP) to the rearmost position. Using any part of any control, other than those just used, determine the full range of angles of the seat cushion reference line and set the seat cushion reference line to the middle of the range. Using any part of any control other than those that primarily move the seat or seat cushion fore and aft, while maintaining the seat cushion reference line angle, place the SCRP to its lowest position.

S16.2.10.3.2 Using only the control that primarily moves the seat fore and aft, move the SCRP to the full forward position.

S16.2.10.3.3 If the seat or seat cushion height is adjustable, other than by the controls that primarily move the seat or seat cushion fore and aft, determine the maximum and minimum heights of the SCRP, while maintaining, as closely as possible, the angle determined in S16.2.10.3.1. Set the SCRP at the midpoint height with the seat cushion reference line angle set as closely as possible to the angle determined in S16.2.10.3.1. Mark location of the seat for future reference.
