
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Driver foot positioning.

S16.3.2.2

S16.3.2.2.1 If the vehicle has an adjustable accelerator pedal, adjust it to the full forward position. If the heel of the right foot can contact the floor pan, follow the positioning procedure in (a). If not, follow the positioning procedure in (b).

(a) Rest the right foot of the test dummy on the undepressed accelerator pedal with the rearmost point of the heel on the floor pan in the plane of the pedal. If the foot cannot be placed on the accelerator pedal, set it initially perpendicular to the leg and then place it as far forward as possible in the direction of the pedal centerline with the rearmost point of the heel resting on the floor pan. If the vehicle has an adjustable accelerator pedal and the right foot is not touching the accelerator pedal when positioned as above, move the pedal rearward until it touches the right foot. If the accelerator pedal in the full rearward position still does not touch the foot, leave the pedal in that position. Extend the foot and lower leg by decreasing the knee flexion angle until any part of the foot contacts the undepressed accelerator pedal. If the foot does not contact the pedal, place the highest part of the foot at the same height as the highest part of the pedal.

(b) Extend the foot and lower leg by decreasing the knee flexion angle until any part of the foot contacts the undepressed accelerator pedal or the highest part of the foot is at the same height as the highest part of the pedal. If the vehicle has an adjustable accelerator pedal and the right foot is not touching the accelerator pedal when positioned as above, move the pedal rearward until it touches the right foot.

S16.3.2.2.2 If the ball of the right foot does not contact the pedal, increase the ankle plantar flexion angle such that the toe of the foot contacts or is as close as possible to contact with the undepressed accelerator pedal.

S16.3.2.2.3 If, in its final position, the heel is off of the vehicle floor, a spacer block must be used under the heel to support the final foot position (see figure 13). The surface of the block in contact with the heel must have an inclination of 30 degrees, measured from the horizontal, with the highest surface towards the rear of the vehicle.

S16.3.2.2.4 Place the left foot on the toe-board with the rearmost point of the heel resting on the floor pan as close as possible to the point of intersection of the planes described by the toe-board and floor pan.

S16.3.2.2.5 If the left foot cannot be positioned on the toe board, place the foot perpendicular to the lower leg centerline as far forward as possible with the heel resting on the floor pan.

S16.3.2.2.6 If the left foot does not contact the floor pan, place the foot parallel to the floor and place the lower leg as perpendicular to the thigh as possible.

S16.3.2.2.7 When positioning the test dummy under S16.3.2.2.4, S16.3.2.2.5, and S16.2.2.6, avoid contact between the left foot of the test dummy and the vehicle's brake pedal, clutch pedal, wheel well projection, and foot rest. To avoid this contact, use the three foot position adjustments listed in paragraphs (a) through (c). The adjustment options are listed in priority order, with each subsequent option incorporating the previous. In making each adjustment, move the foot the minimum distance necessary to avoid contact. If it is not possible to avoid all prohibited foot contact, give priority to avoiding brake or clutch pedal contact.

(a) Rotate (abduction/adduction) the test dummy's left foot about the lower leg,

(b) Plantar flex the foot,

(c) Rotate the left leg about the hip in either an outboard or inboard direction.
