
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Installation using the lower anchor bars and the child restraint manufacturer provided attachment mechanism.

S20.2.1.6

S20.2.1.6.1 If the attachment mechanism provided by the manufacturer incorporates a strap(s), use the following procedure:

(a) Place the child restraint on the vehicle seat facing rearward or forward, depending on the orientation being tested, with Plane A of the child restraint aligned within +/-10 mm with a longitudinal vertical plane passing though a point midway between the centers of the two lower anchor bars.

(b) Position any adjustments on the child restraint, to the extent possible according to the child restraint manufacturer's instructions.

(c) Connect the lower anchor straps of the restraint to the lower anchor bars of the seat and remove the slack, but do not apply any load using these straps.

(d) Move the child restraint rearward until it contacts the seat back.

(e) Use the loading device equipped with the loading foot shown in Figure A1 and position it as shown in Figure A2 of appendix A and appendix A-1 of this section. The 15+/-3 degree angle of the loading device illustrated in Figure A2 is determined with an initial preload of 75+/-25N.

(f) Over a period of 90+/-30 seconds, increase the load to 875N+/-25 N.

(g) After achieving the 875 N load in step (f) of this section, hold the bar length at present position and allow the load to settle for 60 seconds.

(h) Following the one-minute settling period specified in step (g) of this section, increase the load to 875+/-25 N such that the 875+/-25 N load is achieved within 10 seconds of the settling period.

(i) Hold the bar length at present position and allow the load to settle for 120 seconds after achieving the load in step (f) of this section.

(j) Following the settling period specified in step (i) of this section, increase the load to 875+/-25 N such that the 875+/-25 N load is achieved within 10 seconds of the settling period.

(k) Observe the settling of the load and tighten the lower anchor straps when the load is 850+/-5N or 180 seconds has elapsed since achieving the 875+/-25 N load in step (f) of this section, whichever comes first. Tighten the lower anchor straps at the same time such that the load is reduced 15+/-10 N and the change occurs within 2 seconds.

(l) Remove the loading device and position the 49 CFR part 572 subpart R 12-month-old CRABI dummy in the child restraint by following, to the extent possible, the manufacturer's instructions provided with the child restraint for seating infants.

(m) Start the vehicle engine or place the ignition in the "on" position, whichever will turn on the suppression system, and close all vehicle doors. Wait 10 seconds, then check whether the air bag is deactivated.

S20.2.1.6.2 If the mechanism provided by the manufacturer does not incorporate a strap(s), use the following procedure:

(a) Place the vehicle seat in the rearmost and mid-height position.

(b) Place the child restraint on the vehicle seat facing rearward or forward, depending on the orientation being tested, with Plane A of the child restraint aligned within +/-10 mm with a longitudinal vertical plane passing though a point midway between the centers of the two lower anchor bars.

(c) Position any adjustments on the child restraint, to the extent possible, according to the child restraint manufacturer's instructions.

(d) Connect the lower anchor attachments to the lower anchor bars following, to the extent possible, the child restraint manufacturer's instructions.

(e) Move the child restraint rearward until it contacts the seat back.

(f) If the child restraint does not use a linear sliding or ratcheting mechanism that requires the application of force to securely install the child restraint, follow, to the extent possible, the CRS manufacturer's instructions for installing the child restraint onto the seat. Do not load the seat as provided in S20.2.1.6.2(g).

(g) If the child restraint uses a linear sliding or ratcheting mechanism that requires the application of force to securely install the child restraint, within 25+/-5 seconds, apply a 475+/-25N force, that has no lateral component, aligned angularly +/-10 degrees with a parallel plane located within +/-100 mm of the plane formed by the linear mechanism. Release the force.

(h) Position the 49 CFR part 572 subpart R 12-month-old CRABI dummy in the child restraint by following, to the extent possible, the manufacturer's instructions provided with the child restraint for seating infants.

(i) Move the vehicle seat to the seat position being tested (full rear, mid, full forward).

(j) Start the vehicle engine or place the ignition in the "on" position, whichever will turn on the suppression system, and close all vehicle doors. Wait 10 seconds, then check whether the air bag is deactivated.
