
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Belted rear facing and convertible child restraints.

S20.2.1

S20.2.1.1 The vehicle shall comply in tests using any child restraint specified in section B and section C of appendix A or A-1 of this standard, as appropriate, installed in the front outboard passenger vehicle seat in the following orientations:

(a) With the section B and section C child restraints facing rearward as appropriate; and

(b) With the section C child restraints facing forward.

S20.2.1.2 The vehicle shall comply with the child restraint attached to the vehicle in the following manner:

(a) Using the vehicle safety belts as specified in S20.2.1.5; and

(b) If the child restraint is certified to S5.9 of ยง 571.213, and the vehicle seat has an anchorage system as specified in ยง 571.225, using only the mechanism provided by the child restraint manufacturer for attachment to the lower anchorages as specified in S20.2.1.6.

S20.2.1.3 Locate a vertical plane through the longitudinal centerline of the child restraint. This will be referred to as "Plane A."

S20.2.1.4 For bucket seats, "Plane B" refers to a vertical plane parallel to the vehicle longitudinal centerline through the longitudinal centerline of any front outboard passenger vehicle seat cushion. For bench seats in vehicles with manually operated driving controls, "Plane B" refers to a vertical plane through any front outboard passenger vehicle seat parallel to the vehicle longitudinal centerline the same distance from the longitudinal centerline of the vehicle as the center of the steering control. For bench seats in vehicles without manually operated driving controls, "Plane B" refers to the vertical plane parallel to the vehicle longitudinal centerline, through any front outboard passenger seat's SgRP.
