
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Tests with a belted car bed.

S20.2.3

S20.2.3.1 The vehicle shall comply in tests using any car bed specified in section A of appendix A or A-1 of this standard, as appropriate.

S20.2.3.2 (a) Install the car bed following, to the extent possible, the car bed manufacturer's directions regarding proper installation of the car bed. If the seat belt cannot be secured around the car bed, move the seat rearward to the next detent that allows the belt to be secured around the car bed, or if the seat is a power seat, using only the control that primarily moves the seat fore and aft, move the seat rearward the minimum distance necessary for the seat belt to be secured around the car bed.

(b) Place any adjustable seat belt anchorages at the vehicle manufacturer's nominal design position for a 50th percentile adult male occupant. Cinch the vehicle belts to secure the car bed.

(c) Position the 49 CFR part 572 subpart K Newborn Infant dummy in the car bed by following, to the extent possible, the car bed manufacturer's instructions provided with the car bed for positioning infants.

(d) Start the vehicle engine or place the ignition in the "on" position, whichever will turn on the suppression system, and close all vehicle doors. Wait 10 seconds, then check whether the air bag is deactivated.
