
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Belted test with forward facing or booster seat child restraint

22.2.1

S22.2.1.1 Install the restraint in any front outboard passenger vehicle seat in accordance, to the extent possible, with the child restraint manufacturer's instructions provided with the seat for use by children with the same height and weight as the 3-year-old child dummy.

S22.2.1.2 Locate a vertical plane through the longitudinal centerline of the child restraint. This will be referred to as "Plane A".

S22.2.1.3 For bucket seats, "Plane B" refers to a vertical longitudinal plane through the longitudinal centerline of the seat cushion of any front outboard passenger vehicle seat. For bench seats in vehicles with manually operated driving controls, "Plane B" refers to a vertical plane through any front outboard passenger vehicle seat parallel to the vehicle longitudinal centerline the same distance from the longitudinal centerline of the vehicle as the center of the steering control. For bench seats in vehicles without manually operated driving controls, "Plane B" refers to the vertical plane parallel to the vehicle longitudinal centerline, through any front outboard passenger seat's SgRP.

S22.2.1.4 The vehicle shall comply with the child restraint belted to the vehicle in the following manner:

(a) Using the vehicle safety belts as specified in S22.2.1.5 with section C and section D child restraints of appendix A or A-1, as appropriate, of this section designed to be secured to the vehicle seat even when empty; and

(b) If the child restraint is certified to S5.9 of ยง 571.213, and the vehicle seat has an anchorage system as specified in ยง 571.225, using only the mechanism provided by the child restraint manufacturer for attachment to the lower anchorage as specified in S22.2.1.6.
