
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Position 2 (head on instrument panel).

S22.4.3

S22.4.3.1 Place any front outboard passenger seat at the mid-height, in full rearward seating position determined in S22.1.7.4. Place the seat back, if adjustable independent of the seat, at the manufacturer's nominal design seat back angle for a 50th percentile adult male as specified in S8.1.3. Position any adjustable parts of the seat that provide additional support so that they are in the lowest or most open adjustment position. If adjustable, set the head restraint in the lowest and most forward position.

S22.4.3.2 Place the dummy in any front outboard passenger seat such that:

S22.4.3.2.1 The midsagittal plane is coincident with Plane D within +/-10 mm (+/-0.4 in).

S22.4.3.2.2 The legs are vertical to the floor pan, the back of the legs are in contact with the seat cushion, and the dummy's thorax instrument cavity rear face is vertical. If it is not possible to position the dummy with the legs in the prescribed position, rotate the legs forward until the dummy is resting on the seat with the feet positioned flat on the floor pan, and the back of the legs are in contact with the front of the seat cushion. Set the transverse distance between the longitudinal centerlines at the front of the dummy's knees at 86 to 91 mm (3.4 to 3.6 in), with the thighs and the legs of the dummy in vertical planes.

S22.4.3.2.3 The upper arms are parallel to the torso and the hands are in contact with the thighs.

S22.4.3.3 Using only the control that primarily moves the seat in the fore and aft direction, move the seat forward, while maintaining the thorax instrument cavity rear face orientation until any part of the dummy contacts the vehicle's instrument panel.

S22.4.3.4 If dummy contact has not been made with the vehicle's instrument panel at the full forward seating position of the seat, slide the dummy forward until contact is made. Maintain the thorax instrument cavity rear face vertical orientation. If the dummy loses contact with the seat, from that point forward, maintain the height of the dummy. Except as provided in S22.4.3.5, maintain the angle of the thigh with respect to the horizontal.

S22.4.3.5 If head/torso contact with the instrument panel has not been made, maintain the angle of the thighs with respect to the horizontal while applying a force towards the front of the vehicle on the spine of the dummy between the shoulder joints, perpendicular to the thorax instrument cavity rear face, until the head or torso comes into contact with the vehicle's instrument panel or until a maximum force of 222 N (50 lb) is achieved. If the head/torso is still not in contact with the instrument panel, hold the femurs and release the 222 N (50 lb) force. While maintaining the relative angle between the torso and the femurs, roll the dummy forward on the seat cushion, without sliding, until head/torso contact with the instrument panel is achieved. If seat contact is lost prior to or during femur rotation out of the horizontal plane, constrain the dummy to rotate about the dummy H-point. If the dummy cannot be rolled forward on the seat due to contact of the dummy feet with the floor pan, extend the lower legs forward, at the knees, until floor pan contact is avoided.

S22.4.3.6 If necessary, material with a maximum breaking strength of 311 N (70 lb) and spacer blocks may be used to support the dummy in position. The material should support the torso rather than the head. Support the dummy so that there is minimum interference with the full rotational and translational freedom for the upper torso of the dummy and the material does not interfere with the air bag.

S22.4.4 Deploy any front outboard passenger frontal air bag system. If the frontal air bag system contains a multistage inflator, the vehicle shall be able to comply with the injury criteria at any stage or combination of stages or time delay between successive stages that could occur in a rigid barrier crash test at or below 26 km/h (16 mph), under the test procedure specified in S22.5.
