
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Position 1 (chest on instrument panel).

S22.4.2

S22.4.2.1 Set the seat and seat cushion in the positions determined in S16.2.10.3.1. If the seat back is adjustable independent of the seat, place the seat back at the manufacturer's nominal design seat back angle for a 50th percentile adult male as specified in S8.1.3. Position any adjustable parts of the seat that provide additional support so that they are in the lowest or most open adjustment position. If adjustable, set the head restraint in the lowest and most forward position.

S22.4.2.2 Place the dummy in any front outboard passenger seat such that:

S22.4.2.2.1 The midsagittal plane is coincident with Plane D within +/-10 mm (+/-0.4 in).

S22.4.2.2.2 The legs are initially vertical to the floor pan. The legs and thighs shall be adjusted to the extent necessary for the head/torso to contact the instrument panel as specified in S22.4.2.3.

S22.4.2.2.3 The upper arms are parallel to the torso and the hands are in contact with the thighs.

S22.4.2.3 Without changing the seat position and with the dummy's thorax instrument cavity rear face vertical, move the dummy forward until the dummy head/torso contacts the instrument panel. If the dummy loses contact with the seat cushion because of the forward movement, maintain the height of the dummy and the angle of the thigh with respect to the torso. Once contact is made, raise the dummy vertically until Point 1 lies in Plane C within +/-10 mm (+/-0.4 in). If the dummy's head contacts the windshield and keeps Point 1 from reaching Plane C, lower the dummy until there is no more than 5 mm (0.2 in) clearance between the head and the windshield. (The dummy shall remain in contact with the instrument panel while being raised or lowered, which may change the dummy's fore-aft position.)

S22.4.2.4 If possible, position the legs of the dummy so that the legs are vertical and the feet rest flat on the floor pan of the vehicle. If the positioning against the instrument panel does not allow the feet to be on the floor pan, the feet shall be parallel to the floor pan.

S22.4.2.5 If necessary, material with a maximum breaking strength of 311 N (70 lb) and spacer blocks may be used to support the dummy in position. The material should support the torso rather than the head. Support the dummy so that there is minimum interference with the full rotational and translational freedom for the upper torso of the dummy and the material does not interfere with the air bag.
