
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Kneeling on seat, facing forward.

S22.2.2.6

(a) In the case of vehicles equipped with bench seats and manually operated driving controls, position the midsagittal plane of the dummy vertically and parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline and the same distance from the vehicle's longitudinal centerline, within +/-10 mm (+/-0.4 in), as the center of the steering control. For bench seats in vehicles without manually operated driving controls, position the midsagittal plane of any front outboard dummy vertically and parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline, within +/-10 mm (+/-0.4 in) of the seating reference point of the seat that it occupies. In the case of vehicles equipped with bucket seats, position the midsagittal plane of any front outboard dummy vertically such that it coincides with the longitudinal centerline of the seat cushion, within +/-10 mm (+/-0.4 in).

(b) Position the dummy in a kneeling position in any front outboard passenger vehicle seat with the dummy facing the front of the vehicle with its toes at the intersection of the seat back and seat cushion. Position the dummy so that the spine is vertical. Push down on the legs so that they contact the seat as much as possible and then release. Place the arms parallel to the spine.

(c) If necessary use a material with a maximum breaking strength of 311 N (70 lb) or spacer blocks to keep the dummy in position.

(d) Start the vehicle engine or place the ignition in the "on" position, whichever will turn on the suppression system, and then close all vehicle doors.

(e) Wait 10 seconds, then check whether the air bag is deactivated.
