
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.208 Standard No. 208; Occupant crash protection.
####### Manufacturer option to certify vehicles to certain static suppression test requirements using human beings rather than test dummies.

S29

S29.1 At the option of the manufacturer, instead of using test dummies in conducting the tests for the following automatic suppression and occupant recognition parts of the low risk deployment test requirements, human beings may be used as specified. If human beings are used, they shall assume, to the extent possible, the final physical position specified for the corresponding dummies for each test.

(a) If a manufacturer decides to certify a vehicle using a human being for a test of the passenger automatic suppression, it shall use humans for the entire series of tests, e.g., 3-year-old children for each test of the system involving 3-year-old test dummies. If a manufacturer decides to certify a vehicle using a test dummy for a test of the system, it shall use test dummies for the entire series of tests, e.g., a Hybrid III 3-year-old child dummy for each test of the system involving 3-year-old child test dummies.

(b) For S19.2, instead of using the 49 CFR part 572 subpart R 12-month-old child dummy, a human child who weighs between 8.2 and 9.1 kg (18 and 20 lb), and who is between 61 and 66 cm (24 and 26 in) tall may be used.

(c) For S19.2, instead of using the 49 CFR part 572 subpart K newborn infant dummy, a human child who weighs between 8.2 and 9.1 kg (18 and 20 lb), and who is between 61 and 66 cm (24 and 26 in) tall may be used.

(d) For S21.2 and S21.5.1, instead of using the 49 CFR part 572 subpart P 3-year-old child dummy, a human child who weighs between 13.4 and 18 kg (29.5 and 39.5 lb), and who is between 89 and 99 cm (35 and 39 in) tall may be used.

(e) For S23.2 and S23.5.1, instead of using the 49 CFR part 572 subpart N 6-year-old child dummy, a human child who weighs between 21 and 25.6 kg (46.5 and 56.5 lb), and who is between 114 and 124.5 cm (45 and 49 in) tall may be used.

(f) For S19.2, S21.2, and S23.2, instead of using the 49 CFR part 572 subpart O 5th percentile adult female test dummy, a female who weighs between 46.7 and 51.25 kg (103 and 113 lb), and who is between 139.7 and 150 cm (55 and 59 in) tall may be used.

S29.2 Human beings shall be dressed in a cotton T-shirt, full length cotton trousers, and sneakers. Specified weights and heights include clothing.

S29.3 A manufacturer exercising this option shall upon request:

(a) Provide NHTSA with a method to deactivate the air bag during compliance testing under S20.2, S20.3, S22.2, S22.3, S24.2, and S24.3, and identify any parts or equipment necessary for deactivation; such assurance may be made by removing the air bag; and

(b) Provide NHTSA with a method to assure that the same test results would be obtained if the air bag were not deactivated.
