
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### Corrosion resistance.

(a)Three seat belt assemblies shall be tested in accordance with ASTM B117-73 (Reapproved 1979) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5). Any surface coating or material not intended for permanent retention on the metal parts during service life shall be removed prior to preparation of the test specimens for testing. The period of test shall be 50 hours for all attachment hardware at or near the floor, consisting of two periods of 24 hours exposure to salt spray followed by 1 hour drying and 25 hours for all other hardware, consisting of one period of 24 hours exposure to salt spray followed by 1 hour drying. In the salt spray test chamber, the parts from the three assemblies shall be oriented differently, selecting those orientations most likely to develop corrosion on the larger areas. At the end of test, the seat belt assembly shall be washed thoroughly with water to remove the salt. After drying for at least 24 hours under standard laboratory conditions specified in S5.1(a) attachment hardware shall be examined for ferrous corrosion on significant surfaces, that is, all surfaces that can be contacted by a sphere 19 mm in diameter, and other hardware shall be examined for ferrous and nonferrous corrosion which may be transferred, either directly or by means of the webbing, to a person or his clothing during use of a seat belt assembly incorporating the hardware.
