
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### Resistance to abrasion.

(d)The webbing from three seat belt assemblies shall be tested for resistance to abrasion by rubbing over the hexagon bar prescribed in Figure 2 in the following manner: The webbing shall be mounted in the apparatus shown schematically in Figure 2. One end of the webbing (A) shall be attached to a mass (B) of 2.35 kg +/-.05 kg, except that a mass of 1.5 kg +/-.05 kg shall be used for webbing in pelvic and upper torso restraints of a belt assembly used in a child restraint system. The webbing shall be passed over the two new abrading edges of the hexagon bar (C) and the other end attached to an oscillating drum (D) which has a stroke of 330 mm. Suitable guides shall be used to prevent movement of the webbing along the axis of hexagonal bar C. Drum D shall be oscillated for 5,000 strokes or 2,500 cycles at a rate of 60 +/-2 strokes per minute or 30 +/-1 cycles per minute. The abraded webbing shall be conditioned as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section and tested for breaking strength by the procedure described in paragraph (b) of this section. The median values for the breaking strengths determined on abraded and unabraded specimens shall be used to calculate the percentage of breaking strength retained.
