
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### Resistance to light.

(e)Webbing at least 508 mm in length from three seat belt assemblies shall be suspended vertically on the inside of the specimen track in a Type E carbon-arc light exposure apparatus described in ASTM G23-81 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), except that the filter used for 100 percent polyester yarns shall be chemically strengthened soda-lime glass with a transmittance of less than 5 percent for wave lengths equal to or less than 305 nanometers and 90 percent or greater transmittance for wave lengths of 375 to 800 nanometers. The apparatus shall be operated without water spray at an air temperature of 60&#xB0; +/-2 &#xB0;Celsius (&#xB0;C) measured at a point 25 +/-5 mm outside the specimen rack and midway in height. The temperature sensing element shall be shielded from radiation. The specimens shall be exposed to light from the carbon-arc for 100 hours and then conditioned as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. The colorfastness of the exposed and conditioned specimens shall be determined on the AATCC Gray Scale for Evaluating Change in Color (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5). The breaking strength of the specimens shall be determined by the procedure prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. The median values for the breaking strengths determined on exposed and unexposed specimens shall be used to calculate the percentage of breaking strength retained.
