
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### Buckle release.

(d)(1) Three seat belt assemblies shall be tested to determine compliance with the maximum buckle release force requirements, following the assembly test in S5.3. After subjection to the force applicable for the assembly being tested, the force shall be reduced and maintained at 667 N on the assembly loop of a Type 1 seat belt assembly, 334 N on the components of a Type 2 seat belt assembly. The buckle release force shall be measured by applying a force on the buckle in a manner and direction typical of those which would be employed by a seat belt occupant. For push button-release buckles, the force shall be applied at least 3 mm from the edge of the push button access opening of the buckle in a direction that produces maximum releasing effect. For lever-release buckles, the force shall be applied on the centerline of the buckle lever or finger tab in a direction that produces maximum releasing effect.

(2) The area for application of release force on pushbutton actuated buckle shall be measured to the nearest 30 mm. The cylinder specified in S4.3(d) shall be inserted in the actuation portion of a lever released buckle for determination of compliance with the requirement. A buckle with other release actuation shall be examined for access of release by fingers.

(3) The buckle of a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly shall be subjected to a compressive force of 1779 N applied anywhere on a test line that is coincident with the center line of the belt extended through the buckle or on any line that extends over the center of the release mechanism and intersects the extended centerline of the belt at an angle of 60&#xB0;. The load shall be applied by using a curved cylindrical bar having a cross section diameter of 19 mm and a radius of curvature of 152 mm, placed with its longitudinal center line along the test line and its center directly above the point or the buckle to which the load will be applied. The buckle shall be latched, and a tensile force of 334 N shall be applied to the connected webbing during the application of the compressive force. Buckles from three seat belt assemblies shall be tested to determine compliance with paragraph S4.3(d)(3).
