
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### For seat belt assemblies manufactured before February 22, 2007.

(1)Except for manufacturers that elect to comply with S4.3(j)(2) and the corresponding test procedures of S5.2(j)(2), a retractor shall be tested in a manner that permits the retraction force to be determined exclusive of the gravitational forces on hardware or webbing being retracted. The webbing shall be fully extended from the retractor, passing over or through any hardware or other material specified in the installation instructions. While the webbing is being retracted, the lowest force of retraction within +/-51 mm of 75 percent extension shall be determined. A retractor that is sensitive to webbing withdrawal shall be subjected to an acceleration of 3 m/s(0.3 g) within a period of 50 milliseconds (ms) while the webbing is at 75 percent extension, to determine compliance with S4.3(j)(1)(ii). The retractor shall be subjected to an acceleration of 7 m/s(0.7 g) within a period of 50 ms, while the webbing is at 75 percent extension, and the webbing movement before locking shall be measured under the following conditions: For a retractor sensitive to webbing withdrawal, the retractor shall be accelerated in the direction of webbing retraction while the retractor drum's central axis is oriented horizontally and at angles of 45&#xB0;, 90&#xB0;, 135&#xB0;, and 180&#xB0; to the horizontal plane. For a retractor sensitive to vehicle acceleration, the retractor shall be:

(i) Accelerated in the horizontal plane in two directions normal to each other, while the retractor drum's central axis is oriented at the angle at which it is installed in the vehicle; and

(ii) Accelerated in three directions normal to each other while the retractor drum's central axis is oriented at angles of 45&#xB0;, 90&#xB0;, 135&#xB0;, and 180&#xB0; from the angle at which it is installed in the vehicle, unless the retractor locks by gravitational force when tilted in any direction to any angle greater than 45&#xB0; from the angle at which it is installed in the vehicle.
