
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### Automatic-locking retractor.

(i)Three retractors shall be tested in a manner to permit the retraction force to be determined exclusive of the gravitational forces on hardware or webbing being retracted. The webbing shall be fully extended from the retractor. While the webbing is being retracted, the average force or retraction within plus or minus 51 mm of 75 percent extension (25 percent retraction) shall be determined and the webbing movement between adjacent locking segments shall be measured in the same region of extension. A seat belt assembly with automatic locking retractor in upper torso restraint shall be tested in a vehicle in a manner prescribed by the installation and usage instructions. The retraction force on the occupant of the seat belt assembly shall be determined before and after traveling for 10 minutes at a speed of 24 kilometers per hour (km/h) or more over a rough road (e.g., Belgian block road) where the occupant is subjected to displacement with respect to the vehicle in both horizontal and vertical directions. Measurements shall be made with the vehicle stopped and the occupant in the normal seated position.
