
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### Attachment hardware.

(c)(1) Attachment bolts used to secure the pelvic restraint of a seat belt assembly to a motor vehicle shall be tested in a manner similar to that shown in Figure 3. The load shall be applied at an angle of 45&#xB0; to the axis of the bolt through attachment hardware from the seat belt assembly, or through a special fixture which simulates the loading applied by the attachment hardware. The attachment hardware or simulated fixture shall be fastened by the bolt to the anchorage shown in Figure 3, which has a standard-20UNF-2B or-UNF-2B or metric equivalent threaded hole in a hardened steel plate at least 10 mm in thickness. The bolt shall be installed with two full threads exposed from the fully seated position. The appropriate force required by S4.3(c) shall be applied. A bolt from each of three seat belt assemblies shall be tested.

(2) Attachment hardware, other than bolts, designed to receive the ends of two seat belt assemblies shall be subjected to a tensile force of 26,689 N in a manner simulating use. The hardware shall be examined for fracture after the force is released. Attachment hardware from three seat belt assemblies shall be tested.

(3) Single attachment hook for connecting webbing to any eye bolt shall be tested in the following manner: The hook shall be held rigidly so that the retainer latch or keeper, with cotter pin or other locking device in place, is in a horizontal position as shown in Figure 4. A force of 667 N +/-9 N shall be applied vertically as near as possible to the free end of the retainer latch, and the movement of the latch by this force at the point of application shall be measured. The vertical force shall be released, and a force of 667 N +/-9 N shall be applied horizontally as near as possible to the free end of the retainer latch. The movement of the latch by this force at the point of load application shall be measured. Alternatively, the hook may be held in other positions, provided the forces are applied and the movements of the latch are measured at the points indicated in Figure 4. A single attachment hook from each of three seat belt assemblies shall be tested.
