
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### Assembly performance-(a) Type 1 seat belt assembly.

S5.3Three complete seat belt assemblies, including webbing, straps, buckles, adjustment and attachment hardware, and retractors, arranged in the form of a loop as shown in Figure 5, shall be tested in the following manner:

(1) The testing machine shall conform to the requirements specified in S5.1(b). A double-roller block shall be attached to one head of the testing machine. This block shall consist of two rollers 102 mm in diameter and sufficiently long so that no part of the seat belt assembly touches parts of the block other than the rollers during test. The rollers shall be mounted on antifriction bearings and spaced 305 mm between centers, and shall have sufficient capacity so that there is no brinelling, bending or other distortion of parts which may affect the results. An anchorage bar shall be fastened to the other head of the testing machine.

(2) The attachment hardware furnished with the seat belt assembly shall be attached to the anchorage bar. The anchor points shall be spaced so that the webbing is parallel in the two sides of the loop. The attaching bolts shall be parallel to, or at an angle of 45&#xB0; or 90&#xB0; to the webbing, whichever results in an angle nearest to 90&#xB0; between webbing and attachment hardware except that eye bolts shall be vertical, and attaching bolts or nonthreaded anchorages of a seat belt assembly designed for use in specific models of motor vehicles shall be installed to produce the maximum angle in use indicated by the installation instructions, utilizing special fixtures if necessary to simulate installation in the motor vehicle. Rigid adapters between anchorage bar and attachment hardware shall be used if necessary to locate and orient the adjustment hardware. The adapters shall have a flat support face perpendicular to the threaded hole for the attaching bolt and adequate in area to provide full support for the base of the attachment hardware connected to the webbing. If necessary, a washer shall be used under a swivel plate or other attachment hardware to prevent the webbing from being damaged as the attaching bolt is tightened.

(3) The length of the assembly loop from attaching bolt to attaching bolt shall be adjusted to about 1295 mm, or as near thereto as possible. A force of 245 N shall be applied to the loop to remove any slack in webbing at hardware. The force shall be removed and the heads of the testing machine shall be adjusted for an assembly loop between 1220 and 1270 mm in length. The length of the assembly loop shall then be adjusted by applying a force between 89 and 98 N to the free end of the webbing at the buckle, or by the retraction force of an automatic-locking or emergency-locking retractor. A seat belt assembly that cannot be adjusted to this length shall be adjusted as closely as possible. An automatic-locking or emergency locking retractor when included in a seat belt assembly shall be locked at the start of the test with a tension on the webbing slightly in excess of the retractive force in order to keep the retractor locked. The buckle shall be in a location so that it does not touch the rollers during test, but to facilitate making the buckle release test in S5.2(d) the buckle should be between the rollers or near a roller in one leg.

(4) The heads of the testing machine shall be separated at a rate between 51 and 102 mm per minute until a force of 22,241 +/-222 N is applied to the assembly loop. The extension of the loop shall be determined from measurements of head separation before and after the force is applied. The force shall be decreased to 667 +/-45 N and the buckle release force measured as prescribed in S5.2(d).

(5) After the buckle is released, the webbing shall be examined for cutting by the hardware. If the yarns are partially or completely severed in a line for a distance of 10 percent or more of the webbing width, the cut webbing shall be tested for breaking strength as specified in S5.1(b) locating the cut in the free length between grips. If there is insufficient webbing on either side of the cut to make such a test for breaking strength, another seat belt assembly shall be used with the webbing repositioned in the hardware. A tensile force of 11,120 +/-111 N shall be applied to the components or a force of 22,241 +/-222 N shall be applied to the assembly loop. After the force is removed, the breaking strength of the cut webbing shall be determined as prescribed above.

(6) If a Type 1 seat belt assembly includes an automatic-locking retractor or an emergency-locking retractor, the webbing and retractor shall be subjected to a tensile force of 11,120 +/-111 N with the webbing fully extended from the retractor.

(7) If a seat belt assembly has a buckle in which the tongue is capable of inverted insertion, one of the three assemblies shall be tested with the tongue inverted.
