
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### Performance of retractor.

(k)After completion of the corrosion-resistance test described in paragraph (a) of this section, the webbing shall be fully extended and allowed to dry for at least 24 hours under standard laboratory conditions specified in S5.1(a). The retractor shall be examined for ferrous and nonferrous corrosion which may be transferred, either directly or by means of the webbing, to a person or his clothing during use of a seat belt assembly incorporating the retractor, and for ferrous corrosion on significant surfaces if the retractor is part of the attachment hardware. The webbing shall be withdrawn manually and allowed to retract for 25 cycles. The retractor shall be mounted in an apparatus capable of extending the webbing fully, applying a force of 89 N at full extension, and allowing the webbing to retract freely and completely. The webbing shall be withdrawn from the retractor and allowed to retract repeatedly in this apparatus until 2,500 cycles are completed. The retractor and webbing shall then be subjected to the temperature resistance test prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. The retractor shall be subjected to 2,500 additional cycles of webbing withdrawal and retraction. Then, the retractor and webbing shall be subjected to dust in a chamber similar to one illustrated in Figure 8 containing about 0.9 kg of coarse grade dust conforming to the specification given in SAE Recommended Practice J726 SEP79 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5). The dust shall be agitated every 20 minutes for 5 seconds by compressed air, free of oil and moisture, at a gage pressure of 550 +/-55 kPa entering through an orifice 1.5 +/-0.1 mm in diameter. The webbing shall be extended to the top of the chamber and kept extended at all times except that the webbing shall be subjected to 10 cycles of complete retraction and extension within 1 to 2 minutes after each agitation of the dust. At the end of 5 hours, the assembly shall be removed from the chamber. The webbing shall be fully withdrawn from the retractor manually and allowed to retract completely for 25 cycles. An automatic-locking retractor or a nonlocking retractor attached to pelvic restraint shall be subjected to 5,000 additional cycles of webbing withdrawal and retraction. An emergency locking retractor or a nonlocking retractor attached to upper torso restraint shall be subjected to 45,000 additional cycles of webbing withdrawal and retraction between 50 and 100 percent extension. The locking mechanism of an emergency locking retractor shall be actuated at least 10,000 times within 50 to 100 percent extension of webbing during the 50,000 cycles. At the end of test, compliance of the retractors with applicable requirements in S4.3 (h), (i), and (j) shall be determined. Three retractors shall be tested for performance.
