
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### For seat belt assemblies manufactured on or after February 22, 2007 and for manufacturers opting for early compliance.

(2)A retractor shall be tested in a manner that permits the retraction force to be determined exclusive of the gravitational forces on the hardware or webbing being retracted.

(i) Retraction force: The webbing shall be extended fully from the retractor, passing over and through any hardware or other material specified in the installation instructions. While the webbing is being retracted, measure the lowest force of retraction within +/-51 mm of 75 percent extension.

(ii) Gravitational locking: For a retractor sensitive to vehicle acceleration, rotate the retractor in any direction to an angle greater than 45 degrees from the angle at which it is installed in the vehicle. Apply a force to the webbing greater than the minimum force measured in S5.2(j)(2)(i) to determine compliance with S4.3(j)(2)(i)(D).

(iii) Dynamic tests: Each acceleration pulse shall be recorded using an accelerometer having a full scale range of +/-10 g and processed according to the practices set forth in SAE Recommended Practice J211-1 DEC2003 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5) Channel Frequency Class 60. The webbing shall be positioned at 75 percent extension, and the displacement shall be measured using a displacement transducer. For tests specified in S5.2(j)(2)(iii)(A) and (B), the 0.7 g acceleration pulse shall be within the acceleration-time corridor shown in Figure 8 of this standard.

(A) For a retractor sensitive to vehicle acceleration-
