
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.209 Standard No. 209; Seat belt assemblies.
####### Type 2 seat belt assembly.

(b)Components of three seat belt assemblies shall be tested in the following manner:

(1) The pelvic restraint between anchorages shall be adjusted to a length between 1220 and 1270 mm, or as near this length as possible if the design of the pelvic restraint does not permit its adjustment to this length. An automatic-locking or emergency-locking retractor when included in a seat belt assembly shall be locked at the start of the test with a tension on the webbing slightly in excess of the retractive force in order to keep the retractor locked. The attachment hardware shall be oriented to the webbing as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and illustrated in Figure 5. A tensile force 11,120 +/-111 N shall be applied on the components in any convenient manner and the extension between anchorages under this force shall be measured. The force shall be reduced to 334 +/-22 N and the buckle release force measured as prescribed in S5.2(d).

(2) The components of the upper torso restraint shall be subjected to a tensile force of 6,672 +/-67 N following the procedure prescribed above for testing pelvic restraint and the extension between anchorages under this force shall be measured. If the testing apparatus permits, the pelvic and upper torso restraints may be tested simultaneously. The force shall be reduced to 334 +/-22 N and the buckle release force measured as prescribed in S5.2(d).

(3) Any component of the seat belt assembly common to both pelvic and upper torso restraint shall be subjected to a tensile force of 13,344 +/-134 N.

(4) After the buckle is released in tests of pelvic and upper torso restraints, the webbing shall be examined for cutting by the hardware. If the yarns are partially or completely severed in a line for a distance of 10 percent or more of the webbing width, the cut webbing shall be tested for breaking strength as specified in S5.1(b) locating the cut in the free length between grips. If there is insufficient webbing on either side of the cut to make such a test for breaking strength, another seat belt assembly shall be used with the webbing repositioned in the hardware. The force applied shall be 11,120 +/-111 N for components of pelvic restraint, and 6,672 +/-67 N for components of upper torso restraint. After the force is removed, the breaking strength of the cut webbing shall be determined as prescribed above.

(5) If a Type 2 seat belt assembly includes an automatic-locking retractor or an emergency-locking retractor the webbing and retractor shall be subjected to a tensile force of 11,120 +/-111 N with the webbing fully extended from the retractor, or to a tensile force of 6,672 +/-67 N with the webbing fully extended from the retractor if the design of the assembly permits only upper torso restraint forces on the retractor.

(6) If a seat belt assembly has a buckle in which the tongue is capable of inverted insertion, one of the three assemblies shall be tested with the tongue inverted.
