
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.210 Standard No. 210; Seat belt assembly anchorages.
####### See

(a) For a small occupant seating position of a flexible occupancy seat, as defined in 49 CFR 571.222, the school bus torso belt anchor point must be 400 mm or more vertically above the seating reference point (SgRP) or adjustable to 400 mm or more vertically above the SgRP. For all other seating positions, the school bus torso belt anchor point must be 520 mm or more vertically above the SgRP or adjustable to 520 mm or more vertically above the SgRP. The school bus torso belt adjusted height at each seating position shall be adjustable to no more than 280 mm vertically above the SgRP in the lowest position and no less than the required vertical height of the school bus torso belt anchor point for that seating position in the highest position. (Figure 4.)

(b) The minimum lateral distance between the vertical centerline of the bolt holes or the centroid of any other means of attachment to the structure specified in 4.1.3.1, simultaneously achievable by all seating positions, must be:

(i) 280 mm for seating positions in a flexible occupancy seat in a maximum occupancy configuration, as defined in 49 CFR 571.222; and

(ii) 330 mm for all other seating positions.

S4.1.3.3 School buses with a GVWR less than or equal to 4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) must meet the requirements of S4.2.2 of this standard.

S4.1.3.4 School buses with a GVWR greater than 4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) manufactured on or after October 21, 2011, with Type 1 seat belt anchorages, must meet the strength requirements specified in S4.2.1 of this standard.

S4.1.3.5 School buses with a GVWR greater than 4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) manufactured on or after October 21, 2011, with Type 2 seat belt anchorages, must meet the strength requirements specified in S4.2.2 of this standard.
