
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.210 Standard No. 210; Seat belt assembly anchorages.
####### Type.

S4.1

S4.1.1 Seat belt anchorages for a Type 1 or a Type 2 seat belt assembly shall be installed for each designated seating position for which a Type 1 or a Type 2 seat belt assembly is required by Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 571.208). Seat belt anchorages for a Type 2 seat belt assembly shall be installed for each designated seating position for which a Type 2 seat belt assembly is required by Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 571.208).

S4.1.2 (a) Notwithstanding the requirement of S4.1.1, each vehicle manufactured on or after September 1, 1987 that is equipped with an automatic restraint at the front right outboard designated seating position, which automatic restraint cannot be used for securing a child restraint system or cannot be adjusted by the vehicle owner to secure a child restraint system solely through the use of attachment hardware installed as an item of original equipment by the vehicle manufacturer, shall have, at the manufacturer's option, either anchorages for a Type 1 seat belt assembly installed at that position or a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly installed at that position. If a manufacturer elects to install anchorages for a Type 1 seat belt assembly to comply with this requirement, those anchorages shall consist of, at a minimum, holes threaded to accept bolts that comply with S4.1(f) of Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209).

(b) The requirement in S4.1.1 of this standard that seat belt anchorages for a Type 1 or a Type 2 seat belt assembly shall be installed for certain designated seating positions does not apply to any such seating positions that are equipped with a seat belt assembly that meets the frontal crash protection requirements of S5.1 of Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 571.208).
