
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.210 Standard No. 210; Seat belt assembly anchorages.
####### Seat belt anchorages for the upper torso portion of Type 2 seat belt assemblies.

S4.3.2Adjust the seat to its full rearward and downward position and adjust the seat back to its most upright position. Except a small occupant seating position as defined in 49 CFR 571.222, with the seat and seat back so positioned, as specified by subsection (a) or (b) of this section, the upper end of the upper torso restraint shall be located within the acceptable range shown in Figure 1, with reference to a two-dimensional drafting template described in SAE Standard J826 MAY87 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5). The template's "H" point shall be at the design "H" point of the seat for its full rearward and full downward position, as defined in SAE Recommended Practice J1100 JUN84 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), and the template's torso line shall be at the same angle from the vertical as the seat back.

(a) For fixed anchorages, compliance with this section shall be determined at the vertical centerline of the bolt holes or, for designs using another means of attachment to the vehicle structure, at the centroid of such means.

(b) Except for seating positions on school bus bench seats, compliance with this section shall be determined with adjustable anchorages at the midpoint of the adjustment range of all adjustable positions. For seating positions on school bus bench seats, place adjustable anchorages and torso belt height adjusters in their uppermost position.
