
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.210 Standard No. 210; Seat belt assembly anchorages.
####### Seat belt anchorages for Type 1 seat belt assemblies and the pelvic portion of Type 2 seat belt assemblies.

S4.3.1

S4.3.1.1 In an installation in which the seat belt does not bear upon the seat frame:

(a) If the seat is a nonadjustable seat, then a line from the seating reference point to the nearest contact point of the belt with the anchorage shall extend forward from the anchorage at an angle with the horizontal of not less than 30 degrees and not more than 75 degrees.

(b) If the seat is an adjustable seat, then a line from a point 64 mm forward of and 10 mm above the seating reference point to the nearest contact point of the belt with the anchorage shall extend forward from the anchorage at an angle with the horizontal of not less than 30 degrees and not more than 75 degrees.

S4.3.1.2 In an installation in which the belt bears upon the seat frame, the seat belt anchorage, if not on the seat structure, shall be aft of the rearmost belt contact point on the seat frame with the seat in the rearmost position. The line from the seating reference point to the nearest belt contact point on the seat frame, with the seat positioned at the seating reference point, shall extend forward from that contact point at an angle with the horizontal of not less than 30 degrees and not more than 75 degrees.

S4.3.1.3 In an installation in which the seat belt attaches to the seat structure, the line from the seating reference point to the nearest contact point of the belt with the hardware attaching it to the seat structure shall extend forward from that contact point at an angle with the horizontal of not less than 30 degrees and not more than 75 degrees.

S4.3.1.4 Anchorages for an individual seat belt assembly shall be located at least 165 mm apart laterally, measured between the vertical center line of the bolt holes or, for designs using other means of attachment to the vehicle structure, between the centroid of such means.
