
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.210 Standard No. 210; Seat belt assembly anchorages.
####### Strength.

S4.2

S4.2.1 Except as provided in S4.2.5, the anchorages, attachment hardware, and attachment bolts for any of the following seat belt assemblies shall withstand a 5,000 pound force when tested in accordance with S5.1 of this standard:

(a) Type 1 seat belt assembly; and

(b) Lap belt portion of either a Type 2 or automatic seat belt assembly, if such seat belt assembly is equipped with a detachable upper torso belt.

S4.2.2 Except as provided in S4.2.5, the anchorages, attachment hardware, and attachment bolts for any of the following seat belt assemblies shall withstand a 3,000 pound force applied to the lap belt portion of the seat belt assembly simultaneously with a 3,000 pound force applied to the shoulder belt portion of the seat belt assembly, when tested in accordance with S5.2 of this standard:

(a) Type 2 and automatic seat belt assemblies that are installed to comply with Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 571.208); and

(b) Type 2 and automatic seat belt assemblies that are installed at a seating position required to have a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly by Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 571.208).

S4.2.3 Permanent deformation or rupture of a seat belt anchorage or its surrounding area is not considered to be a failure, if the required force is sustained for the specified time.

S4.2.4 Anchorages, attachment hardware, and attachment bolts shall be tested by simultaneously loading them in accordance with the applicable procedures set forth in S5 of this standard if the anchorages are either:

(a) For designated seating positions that are common to the same occupant seat and that face in the same direction, or

(b) For laterally adjacent designated seating positions that are not common to the same occupant seat, but that face in the same direction, if the vertical centerline of the bolt hole for at least one of the anchorages for one of those designated seating positions is within 305 mm of the vertical center line of the bolt hole for an anchorage for one of the adjacent seating positions.

S4.2.5 The attachment hardware of a seat belt assembly, which is subject to the requirements of S5.1 of Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 571.208) by virtue of any provision of Standard No. 208 other than S4.1.2.1(c)(2) of that standard, does not have to meet the requirements of S4.2.1 and S4.2.2 of this standard.
