
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 38 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) ACCESSIBILITY SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
#### Subpart H - Other Vehicles and Systems
##### § 38.173 Automated guideway transit vehicles and systems.

(a) Automated Guideway Transit (AGT) vehicles and systems, sometimes called "people movers", operated in airports and other areas where AGT vehicles travel at slow speed (i.e., at a speed of no more than 20 miles per hour at any location on their route during normal operation), shall comply with the provisions of § 38.53 (a) through (c), and §§ 38.55 through 38.61 of this part for rapid rail vehicles and systems.

(b) Where the vehicle covered by paragraph (a) will operate in an accessible station, the design of vehicles shall be coordinated with the boarding platform design such that the horizontal gap between a vehicle door at rest and the platform shall be no greater than 1 inch and the height of the vehicle floor shall be within plus or minusinch of the platform height under all normal passenger load conditions. Vertical alignment may be accomplished by vehicle air suspension or other suitable means of meeting the requirement.

(c) In stations where open platforms are not protected by platform screens, a suitable device or system shall be provided to prevent, deter or warn individuals from stepping off the platform between cars. Acceptable devices include, but are not limited to, pantograph gates, chains, motion detectors or other appropriate devices.

(d) Light rail and rapid rail AGT vehicles and systems shall comply with subparts D and C of this part, respectively. AGT systems whose vehicles travel at a speed of more than 20 miles per hour at any location on their route during normal operation are covered under this paragraph rather than under paragraph (a) of this section.
