
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.212 Standard No. 212; Windshield mounting.
####### Test conditions.

S6.The requirements of S5. shall be met under the following conditions:

S6.1 The vehicle, including test devices and instrumentation, is loaded as follows:

(a) Except as specified in S6.2, a passenger car is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight plus its cargo and luggage capacity weight, secured in the luggage area, plus a 50th-percentile test dummy as specified in part 572 of this chapter at each front outboard designated seating position and at any other position whose protection system is required to be tested by a dummy under the provisions of Standard No. 208. Each dummy is restrained only by means that are installed for protection at its seating position.

(b) Except as specified in S6.2, a multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck or bus is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight, plus 136 kilograms or its rated cargo and luggage capacity, whichever is less, secured to the vehicle, plus a 50th-percentile test dummy as specified in part 572 of this chapter at each front outboard designated seating position and at any other position whose protection system is required to be tested by a dummy under the provisions of Standard No. 208. Each dummy is restrained only by means that are installed for protection at its seating position. The load is distributed so that the weight on each axle as measured at the tire-ground interface is in proportion to its GAWR. If the weight on any axle when the vehicle is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight plus dummy weight exceeds the axle's proportional share of the test weight, the remaining weight is placed so that the weight on that axle remains the same. For the purposes of this section, unloaded vehicle weight does not include the weight of work-performing accessories. Vehicles are tested to a maximum unloaded vehicle weight of 2,495 kilograms.

S6.2 The fuel tank is filled to any level from 90 to 95 percent of capacity.

S6.3 The parking brake is disengaged and the transmission is in neutral.

S6.4 Tires are inflated to the vehicle manufacturer's specifications.

S6.5 The windshield mounting material and all vehicle components in direct contact with the mounting material are at any temperature between -9 degrees Celsius and + 43 degrees Celsius.
