
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.213 Standard No. 213; Child restraint systems.
####### Electronic registration form.

S5.8.2

(a) Each electronic registration form must meet the requirements of this S5.8.2. Each form shall:

(1) Contain the following statements at the top of the form:

(i) "FOR YOUR CHILD'S CONTINUED SAFETY" (Displayed in bold type face, caps, and minimum 12 point type.)

(ii) "Although child restraint systems undergo testing and evaluation, it is possible that a child restraint could be recalled." (Displayed in bold typeface, caps and lower case, and minimum 12 point type.)

(iii) "In case of a recall, we can reach you only if we have your name and address, so please fill in the registration form to be on our recall list." (Displayed in bold typeface, caps and lower case, and minimum 12 point type.)

(iv) "In order to properly register your child restraint system, you will need to provide the model number, serial number and date of manufacture. This information is printed on the registration card and can also be found on a white label located on the back of the child restraint system." (Displayed in bold typeface, caps and lower case, and minimum 12 point type.)

(v) "This registration is only applicable to child restraint systems purchased in the United States." (Displayed in bold typeface, caps and lower case, and minimum 12 point type.)

(2) Provide as required registration fields, space for the purchaser to record the model name or number and date of manufacture (month, year) of the child restraint system, and space for the purchaser to record his or her name and mailing address. At the manufacturer's option, a space is provided for the purchaser to record his or her e-mail address.

(b) No other information shall appear on the electronic registration form, except for information identifying the manufacturer or a link to the manufacturer's home page, a field to confirm submission, and a prompt to indicate any incomplete or invalid fields prior to submission. Accessing the web page that contains the electronic registration form shall not cause additional screens or electronic banners to appear.

(c) The electronic registration form shall be accessed directly by the web address that the manufacturer printed on the attached registration form. The form must appear on screen when the consumer has inputted the web address provided by the manufacturer, without any further keystrokes on the keyboard or clicks of the mouse.
