
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.213 Standard No. 213; Child restraint systems.
####### Built-in child restraint systems.

S5.6.2(a) Each built-in child restraint system shall be accompanied by printed instructions in English that provide a step-by-step procedure, including diagrams, for activating the restraint system, positioning a child in the system, adjusting the restraint and, if provided, the restraint harness to fit the child. The instructions for each built-in car bed shall explain that the child should be positioned in the bed in such a way that the child's head is near the center of the vehicle.

(b) Each motor vehicle equipped with a factory-installed built-in child restraint shall have the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section included in its vehicle owner's manual.

S5.6.2.1 The instructions shall explain the primary consequences of not following the manufacturer's warnings for proper use of the child restraint system in accordance with S5.5.5 (f) through (i).

S5.6.2.2 The instructions for each built-in child restraint system other than a factory-installed restraint, shall include one of the following statements, inserting an address and a U.S. telephone number. If a manufacturer opts to provide a Web site on the registration card as permitted in Figure 9a of this section, the manufacturer must include the statement in part (ii):
