
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.213 Standard No. 213; Child restraint systems.
####### Specific vehicle shell.

(i)

(A) The specific vehicle shell, if selected for testing, is mounted on a dynamic test platform so that the longitudinal center line of the shell is parallel to the direction of the test platform travel and so that movement between the base of the shell and the platform is prevented. Adjustable seats are in the adjustment position midway between the forwardmost and rearmost positions, and if separately adjustable in a vertical direction, are at the lowest position. If an adjustment position does not exist midway between the forwardmost and rearmost position, the closest adjustment position to the rear of the midpoint is used. Adjustable seat backs are in the manufacturer's nominal design riding position. If such a position is not specified, the seat back is positioned so that the longitudinal center line of the child test dummy's neck is vertical, and if an instrumented test dummy is used, the accelerometer surfaces in the dummy's head and thorax, as positioned in the vehicle, are horizontal. If the vehicle seat is equipped with adjustable head restraints, each is adjusted to its highest adjustment position.

(B) The platform is instrumented with an accelerometer and data processing system having a frequency response of 60 Hz channel class as specified in SAE Recommended Practice J211 (1980) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5). The accelerometer sensitive axis is parallel to the direction of test platform travel.
