
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.213a Standard No. 213a; Child restraint systems - side impact protection.
####### Test device.

(a)(1) The test device is a side impact seat assembly (SISA) consisting of a sliding seat, with one seating position, and a simulated door assembly as described in "NHTSA Standard Seat Assembly; FMVSS No. 213a-Side impact No. NHTSA-213a-2021" (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5). The simulated door assembly is rigidly attached to the floor of the SISA and the sliding seat is mounted on rails to allow it to move relative to the floor of the SISA in the direction perpendicular to the SORL. The SISA is mounted on a dynamic test platform so that the SORL of the seat is 10 +/-0.1 degrees from the perpendicular direction of the test platform travel.

(2) As illustrated in the SISA drawing package, attached to the seat belt anchorage points provided on the SISA is a Type II seat belt assembly. These seat belt assemblies are certified to meet the requirements of Standard No. 209 (ยง 571.209) and have webbing with a width of not more than 2 inches, and are attached to the anchorage points without the use of retractors or reels of any kind. As illustrated in the SISA drawing package, attached to the SISA is a child restraint anchorage system conforming to the specifications of Standard No. 225 (ยง 571.225).

(b) Accelerate the test platform to achieve a relative velocity of 31.3 +/- 0.64 km/h in the direction perpendicular to the SORL between the SISA sliding seat and the door assembly at the time they come in contact (time = T). The front face of the armrest on the door is 38 +/- 6 millimeters from the edge of the seat towards the SORL at time = T. The test platform velocity in the direction perpendicular to the SORL during the time of interaction of the door with the child restraint system is no lower than 2.5 km/h less than its velocity at time = T.

(c) The sliding seat acceleration perpendicular to the SORL is any pulse within the acceleration corridor shown in Figure 3 and the change in relative velocity perpendicular to the SORL between the SISA sliding seat and the door assembly is any velocity within the relative velocity corridor shown in Figure 4.

(d) Performance tests under S6.1 are conducted at any ambient temperature from 20.6 &#xB0;C to 22.2 &#xB0;C and at any relative humidity from 10 percent to 70 percent.
