
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.213a Standard No. 213a; Child restraint systems - side impact protection.
####### Dynamic test procedure.

S6.1.2

(a) The child restraint centerline is positioned 300 +/- 2 millimeters from the SISA sliding seat edge (impact side). The child restraint system is attached in any of the following manners, at NHTSA's option.

(1) Install the child restraint system using the child restraint anchorage system in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions provided with the child restraint system pursuant to S5.6 of Standard No. 213 (§ 571.213), except as provided in this paragraph. For forward-facing restraints, attach the tether strap, if provided, to the tether anchorage on the SISA. No supplemental device is used to install the child restraint system. Tighten belt systems of the lower anchorage attachments used to attach the restraint to the SISA sliding seat to any tension of not less than 53.5 Newtons and not more than 67 Newtons. Tighten the belt of the top tether attachment used to attach the restraint to the SISA sliding seat to any tension of not less than 45 Newtons and not more than 53.5 Newtons.

(2) For forward-facing and rear-facing child restraint systems, install the child restraint system using the Type II belt system in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions provided with the child restraint system pursuant to S5.6 of Standard No. 213 (§ 571.213), except as provided in this paragraph. For forward-facing restraints, attach the top tether strap, if provided, to the top tether anchorage on the SISA. For all child restraints, no supplemental device to install the child restraint system is used. Tighten the Type II belt used to attach the restraint to the SISA sliding seat to any tension of not less than 53.5 Newtons and not more than 67 Newtons. Tighten the belt of the top tether attachment used to attach the forward-facing restraint to the SISA sliding seat to any tension of not less than 45 Newtons and not more than 53.5 Newtons. Rear-facing infant carriers with a detachable base shall only be tested using the base.

(3) For rear-facing restraints, install the child restraint system using only the lower anchorages of the child restraint anchorage system in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions provided with the child restraint system pursuant to S5.6 of Standard No. 213 (§ 571.213). No tether strap is used. No supplemental device is used to install the child restraint system. Tighten belt systems used to attach the restraint to the SISA-sliding seat to any tension of not less than 53.5 Newtons and not more than 67 Newtons. Rear-facing infant carriers with a detachable base shall only be tested using the base.

(b) Select any dummy specified in S7 for testing child restraint systems for use by children of the heights or weights for which the system is recommended in accordance with S5.5 of Standard No. 213 (§ 571.213). The dummy is assembled, clothed and prepared as specified in S8 and part 572 of this chapter, as appropriate.

(c) The dummy is placed and positioned in the child restraint system as specified in S9. Attach the child restraint belts used to restrain the child within the system, if appropriate, as specified in S9.

(d) Shoulder and pelvic belts that directly restrain the dummy are adjusted as follows: Tighten the belt system used to restrain the child within the child restraint system to any tension of not less than 9 Newtons and not more than 18 Newtons on the webbing at the top of each dummy shoulder and the pelvic region. Tighten the belt systems used to attach the restraint to the SISA sliding seat to any tension of not less than 53.5 Newtons and not more than 67 Newtons.

(e) Accelerate the test platform in accordance with S6.1.1(b).

(f) All instrumentation and data reduction is in conformance with SAE J211/1 (1995) (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5).
