
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.213a Standard No. 213a; Child restraint systems - side impact protection.
####### 12-month-old dummy (CRABI) (49 CFR part 572, subpart R).

S9.1Position the test dummy according to the instructions for child positioning that the manufacturer provided with the child restraint system under S5.6.1 or S5.6.2 of Standard No. 213 (ยง 571.213), while conforming to the following:

(a) When testing rear-facing child restraint systems, place the 12-month-old dummy in the child restraint system so that the back of the dummy torso contacts the back support surface of the system. Attach all appropriate child restraint belts used to restrain the child within the child restraint system and tighten them as specified in S6.1.2 of this standard. Attach all appropriate belts used to attach the child restraint system to the SISA sliding seat and tighten them as specified in S6.1.2.

(b) When testing forward-facing child restraint systems, extend the dummy's arms vertically upwards and then rotate each arm downward toward the dummy's lower body until the arm contacts a surface of the child restraint system or the SISA. Ensure that no arm is restrained from movement in other than the downward direction, by any part of the system or the belts used to anchor the system to the SISA sliding seat.

(c) When testing forward-facing child restraint systems, extend the arms of the 12-month-old test dummy as far as possible in the upward vertical direction. Extend the legs of the test dummy as far as possible in the forward horizontal direction, with the dummy feet perpendicular to the centerline of the lower legs. Using a flat square surface with an area of 2,580 square mm, apply a force of 178 Newtons, perpendicular to the plane of the back of the standard seat assembly, first against the dummy crotch and then at the dummy thorax in the midsagittal plane of the dummy. Attach all appropriate child restraint belts used to restrain the child within the child restraint system and tighten them as specified in S6.1.2(d). Attach all appropriate belts used to attach the child restraint system (per S5.1.6) to the SISA sliding seat and tighten them as specified in S6.1.2.

(d) After the steps specified in paragraph (c), rotate each dummy limb downwards in the plane parallel to the dummy's midsagittal plane until the limb contacts a surface of the child restraint system or the standard seat assembly. Position the limbs, if necessary, so that limb placement does not inhibit torso or head movement in tests conducted under S6.
