
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.213a Standard No. 213a; Child restraint systems - side impact protection.
####### Dummy selection.

S7.1At NHTSA's option, any dummy specified in S7.1(a) or S7.1(b) may be selected for testing child restraint systems for use by children of the height or mass for which the system is recommended in accordance with S5.5 of Standard No. 213 (ยง 571.213). A child restraint that meets the criteria in two or more of the following paragraphs may be tested with any of the test dummies specified in those paragraphs.

(a) A child restraint that is recommended by its manufacturer in accordance with S5.5 of Standard No. 213 (ยง 571.213) for use either by children in a specified mass range that includes any children having a mass greater than 5 kilograms but not greater than 13.6 kilograms, or by children in a specified height range that includes any children whose height is greater than 650 millimeters but not greater than 870 millimeters, is tested with a CRABI 12-month-old test dummy conforming to 49 CFR part 572 subpart R.

(b) A child restraint that is recommended by its manufacturer in accordance with S5.5 of Standard No. 213 (ยง 571.213) for use either by children in a specified mass range that includes any children having a mass greater than 13.6 kilograms but not greater than 18 kilograms, or by children in a specified height range that includes any children whose height is greater than 870 millimeters but not greater than 1100 millimeters, is tested with a 3-year-old test dummy (Q3s) conforming to 49 CFR part 572 subpart W.
