
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.213a Standard No. 213a; Child restraint systems - side impact protection.
####### 3-year-old side impact dummy (Q3s) (49 CFR part 572, subpart W) in forward-facing child restraints.

S9.2Position the test dummy according to the instructions for child positioning that the restraint manufacturer provided with the child restraint system in accordance with S5.6.1 or S5.6.2 of Standard No. 213 (ยง 571.213), while conforming to the following:

(a) Holding the test dummy torso upright until it contacts the child restraint system's design seating surface, place the test dummy in the seated position within the child restraint system with the midsagittal plane of the test dummy head coincident with the center of the child restraint system.

(b) Extend the arms of the test dummy as far as possible in the upward vertical direction. Extend the legs of the dummy as far as possible in the forward horizontal direction, with the dummy feet perpendicular to the center line of the lower legs.

(c) For a child restraint system with a fixed or movable surface, position each movable surface in accordance with the instructions that the manufacturer provided under S5.6.1 or S5.6.2 of Standard No. 213 (ยง 571.213). For forward-facing restraints, attach all appropriate child restraint belts used to restrain the child within the child restraint system and tighten them as specified in S6.1.2(d). Attach all appropriate belts or lower anchorage attachments used to attach the child restraint system to the SISA or to restrain the child and tighten them as specified in S6.1.2. For belt-positioning seats, attach all appropriate vehicle belts used to restrain the child within the child restraint system and tighten them as specified in S6.1.2(d).

(d) After the steps specified in paragraph (c) of this section, rotate each of the dummy's legs downwards in the plane parallel to the dummy's midsagittal plane until the limb contacts a surface of the child restraint or the SISA. Rotate each of the dummy's arms downwards in the plane parallel to the dummy's midsagittal plane until the arm is engaged on the detent that positions the arm at a 25 degree angle with respect to the thorax.
