
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.213a Standard No. 213a; Child restraint systems - side impact protection.
####### 3-year-old side impact dummy (Q3s) (49 CFR part 572, subpart W) in rear-facing child restraints.

S9.3Position the test dummy according to the instructions for child positioning that the restraint manufacturer provided with the child restraint system in accordance with S5.6.1 or S5.6.2 of Standard No. 213 (ยง 571.213), while conforming to the following:

(a) Extend the arms of the test dummy as far as possible in the upward vertical direction. Extend the legs of the dummy as far as possible in the forward horizontal direction, with the dummy feet perpendicular to the center line of the lower legs.

(b) Place the Q3s dummy in the child restraint system so that the back of the dummy torso contacts the back support surface of the system. Place the test dummy in the child restraint system with the midsagittal plane of the test dummy head coincident with the center of the child restraint system. Rotate each of the dummy's legs downwards in the plane parallel to the dummy's midsagittal plane until the leg or feet of the dummy contacts the seat back of the SISA or a surface of the child restraint system.

(c) For a child restraint system with a fixed or movable surface, position each movable surface in accordance with the instructions that the manufacturer provided under S5.6.1 or S5.6.2 of Standard No. 213 (ยง 571.213). Attach all appropriate child restraint belts used to restrain a child within the child restraint system and tighten them as specified in S6.1.2(d). Attach all appropriate belts or lower anchorage attachments used to attach the child restraint system to the SISA and tighten them as specified in S6.1.2.

(d) After the steps specified in paragraph (c) of this section, rotate each dummy arm downwards in the plane parallel to the dummy's midsagittal plane until the limb is positioned at a 25-degree angle with respect to the thorax.
