
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.214 Standard No. 214; Side impact protection.
####### Exclusions from S7 (moving deformable barrier test).

(b)The following vehicles are excluded from S7 (moving deformable barrier test):

(1) Motor homes, ambulances and other emergency rescue/medical vehicles (including vehicles with fire-fighting equipment), vehicles equipped with wheelchair lifts, and vehicles which have no doors or exclusively have doors that are designed to be easily attached or removed so the vehicle can be operated without doors.

(2) Passenger cars with a wheelbase greater than 130 inches need not meet the requirements of S7 as applied to the rear seat.

(3) Passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks and buses need not meet the requirements of S7 (moving deformable barrier test) as applied to the rear seat for side-facing rear seats and for rear seating areas that are so small that a Part 572 Subpart V dummy representing a 5th percentile adult female cannot be accommodated according to the positioning procedure specified in S12.3.4 of this standard. Vehicles that are manufactured before September 1, 2010, and vehicles that manufactured on or after September 1, 2010, that are not part of the percentage of a manufacturer's production meeting the moving deformable barrier test requirements with advanced test dummies (S7.2 of this section) or are otherwise excluded from the phase-in requirements of S7.2, need not meet the requirements of the moving deformable barrier test as applied to the rear seat for rear seating areas that are so small that a Subpart F dummy (SID) cannot be accommodated according to the positioning procedure specified in S12.1 of this standard.

(4) Multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks and buses with a GVWR of more than 2,722 kg (6,000 lb) need not meet the requirements of S7 (moving deformable barrier test).
