
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.214 Standard No. 214; Side impact protection.
####### Exceptions from the MDB phase-in; special allowances.

S7.2.4

(a)(1) Vehicles that are manufactured by an original vehicle manufacturer that produces or assembles fewer than 5,000 vehicles annually for sale in the United States are not subject to S7.2.1 of this section (but vehicles that will be manufactured on or after September 1, 2014 are subject to S7.2.2);

(2) Vehicles that are manufactured by a limited line manufacturer are not subject to S7.2.1 of this section (but vehicles that will be manufactured on or after September 1, 2014 are subject to S7.2.2).

(3) Convertibles manufactured before September 1, 2015, are not subject to S7.2.1 or S7.2.2 of this section. These vehicles may be voluntarily certified to meet the MDB test requirements prior to September 1, 2015. Vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2015 are subject to S7 and S7.2.2.

(b) Vehicles that are altered (within the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) before September 1, 2016 after having been previously certified in accordance with part 567 of this chapter, and vehicles manufactured in two or more stages before September 1, 2016, are not subject to S7.2.1. Vehicles that are altered on or after September 1, 2016, and vehicles that are manufactured in two or more stages on or after September 1, 2016, must meet the requirements of S7.2.5 and S7.2.6, when tested with the test dummy specified in those sections. Place the Subpart U ES-2re 50th percentile male dummy in the front seat and the Subpart V SID-IIs 5th percentile female test dummy in the rear seat. The test dummies are placed and positioned in the front and rear outboard seating positions on the struck side of the vehicle, as specified in S11 and S12 of this standard (49 CFR 571.214).
