
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.214 Standard No. 214; Side impact protection.
####### Vehicle-To-Pole Requirements.

S9.

S9.1 Except as provided in S5, when tested under the conditions of S10:

S9.1.1 Except as provided in S9.1.3 of this section, for vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2010 to August 31, 2014, a percentage of each manufacturer's production, as specified in S13.1.1, S13.1.2, S13.1.3, and S13.1.4 shall meet the requirements of S9.2.1, S9.2.2, and S9.2.3 when tested under the conditions of S10 into a fixed, rigid pole of 254 mm (10 inches) in diameter, at any velocity between 26 km/h to 32 km/h (16 to 20 mph) inclusive. Vehicles manufactured before September 1, 2014 that are not subject to the phase-in may be certified as meeting the requirements specified in this section.

S9.1.2 Except as provided in S9.1.3 of this section, each vehicle manufactured on or after September 1, 2014, must meet the requirements of S9.2.1, S9.2.2 and S9.2.3, when tested under the conditions specified in S10 into a fixed, rigid pole of 254 mm (10 inches) in diameter, at any speed up to and including 32 km/h (20 mph). All vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2014 must meet S9.1.2 without the use of advance credits.
