
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.214 Standard No. 214; Side impact protection.
####### Vehicle test attitude.

S10.2When the vehicle is in its "as delivered," "fully loaded" and "as tested" condition, locate the vehicle on a flat, horizontal surface to determine the vehicle attitude. Use the same level surface or reference plane and the same standard points on the test vehicle when determining the "as delivered," "fully loaded" and "as tested" conditions. Measure the angles relative to a horizontal plane, front-to-rear and from left-to-right for the "as delivered," "fully loaded," and "as tested" conditions. The front-to-rear angle (pitch) is measured along a fixed reference on the left and right front occupant's door sills. Mark where the angles are taken on the door sills. The left to right angle (roll) is measured along a fixed reference point at the front and rear of the vehicle at the vehicle longitudinal center plane. Mark where the angles are measured. The "as delivered" condition is the vehicle as received at the test site, with 100 percent of all fluid capacities and all tires inflated to the manufacturer's specifications listed on the vehicle's tire placard. When the vehicle is in its "fully loaded" condition, measure the angle between the left front occupant's door sill and the horizontal, at the same place the "as delivered" angle was measured. The "fully loaded condition" is the test vehicle loaded in accordance with S8.1 of this standard (49 CFR 571.214). The load placed in the cargo area is centered over the longitudinal centerline of the vehicle. The vehicle "as tested" pitch and roll angles are between the "as delivered" and "fully loaded" condition, inclusive.
