
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.214 Standard No. 214; Side impact protection.
####### Torso.

(a)Hold the dummy's head in place and push laterally on the non-impacted side of the upper torso in a single stroke with a force of 66.7-89.0 N (15-20 lb) towards the impacted side.

(1) For a bench seat. The upper torso of the test dummy rests against the seat back. The midsagittal plane of the test dummy is vertical and parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline. For vehicles with manually operated driving controls the midsagittal plane of the test dummy is the same distance from the vehicle's longitudinal centerline as would be the midsagittal plane of a test dummy positioned in the driver's seating position under S12.1.1(a)(1). For vehicles without manually operated driving controls the midsagittal plane of the test dummy shall be vertical and parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline, and passes through any front outboard passenger seat's SgRP.

(2) For a bucket seat. The upper torso of the test dummy rests against the seat back. The midsagittal plane of the test dummy is vertical and parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline, and coincides with the longitudinal centerline of the bucket seat.
