
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.214 Standard No. 214; Side impact protection.
####### Definitions.

(e)

(1) The term "midsagittal plane" refers to the vertical plane that separates the dummy into equal left and right halves.

(2) The term "vertical longitudinal plane" refers to a vertical plane parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline.

(3) The term "vertical plane" refers to a vertical plane, not necessarily parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline.

(4) The term "transverse instrumentation platform" refers to the transverse instrumentation surface inside the dummy's skull casting to which the neck load cell mounts. This surface is perpendicular to the skull cap's machined inferior-superior mounting surface.

(5) The term "thigh" refers to the femur between, but not including, the knee and the pelvis.

(6) The term "leg" refers to the lower part of the entire leg including the knee.

(7) The term "foot" refers to the foot, including the ankle.

(8) For leg and thigh angles, use the following references:

(i) Thigh-a straight line on the thigh skin between the center of the-13 UNC-2B tapped hole in the upper leg femur clamp and the knee pivot shoulder bolt.

(ii) Leg-a straight line on the leg skin between the center of the ankle shell and the knee pivot shoulder bolt.

(9) The term "seat cushion reference point" (SCRP) means a point placed on the outboard side of the seat cushion at a horizontal distance between 150 mm (5.9 in) and 250 mm (9.8 in) from the front edge of the seat used as a guide in positioning the seat.

(10) The term "seat cushion reference line" means a line on the side of the seat cushion, passing through the seat cushion reference point, whose projection in the vehicle vertical longitudinal plane is straight and has a known angle with respect to the horizontal.
