
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.214 Standard No. 214; Side impact protection.
####### 5th percentile female in rear outboard seating positions.

S12.3.4

(a) Set the rear outboard seat at the full rearward, full down position determined in S8.3.3.

(b) Fully recline the seat back, if adjustable. Install the dummy into the passenger's seat, such that when the legs are 120 degrees to the thighs, the calves of the legs are not touching the seat cushion.

(c) Place the dummy on the seat cushion so that its midsagittal plane is vertical and coincides with the vertical longitudinal plane through the center of the seating position SgRP within +/-10 mm (+/-0.4 in).

(d) Hold the dummy's thighs down and push rearward on the upper torso to maximize the dummy's pelvic angle.

(e) Place the legs at 120 degrees to the thighs. Set the initial transverse distance between the longitudinal centerlines at the front of the dummy's knees at 160 to 170 mm (6.3 to 6.7 in), with the thighs and legs of the dummy in vertical planes. Push rearward on the dummy's knees to force the pelvis into the seat so there is no gap between the pelvis and the seat back or until contact occurs between the back of the dummy's calves and the front of the seat cushion.

(f) Gently rock the upper torso laterally side to side three times through a +/-5 degree arc (approximately 51 mm (2 in) side to side).

(g) If needed, extend the legs slightly so that the feet are not in contact with the floor pan. Let the thighs rest on the seat cushion to the extent permitted by the foot movement. With the feet perpendicular to the legs, place the heels on the floor pan. If a heel will not contact the floor pan, place it as close to the floor pan as possible.

(h) Head leveling.

(1) Vehicles with fixed seat backs. Adjust the lower neck bracket to level the transverse instrumentation platform angle of the head to within +/-0.5 degrees. If it is not possible to level the transverse instrumentation platform to within +/-0.5 degrees, select the neck bracket adjustment position that minimizes the difference between the transverse instrumentation platform angle and level.

(2) Vehicles with adjustable seat backs. While holding the thighs in place, rotate the seat back forward until the transverse instrumentation platform angle of the head is level to within +/-0.5 degrees, making sure that the pelvis does not interfere with the seat bight. If it is not possible to level the transverse instrumentation platform to within +/-0.5 degrees, select the seat back adjustment position that minimizes the difference between the transverse instrumentation platform angle and level, then adjust the neck bracket to level the transverse instrumentation platform angle to within +/-0.5 degrees if possible. If it is still not possible to level the transverse instrumentation platform to within +/-0.5 degrees, select the neck bracket angle position that minimizes the difference between the transverse instrumentation platform angle and level.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Measure and set the dummy's pelvic angle using the pelvic angle gauge. The angle is set to 20.0 degrees +/-2.5 degrees. If this is not possible, adjust the pelvic angle as close to 20.0 degrees as possible while keeping the transverse instrumentation platform of the head as level as possible, as specified in S12.3.4(h).
