
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.216 Standard No. 216; Roof crush resistance; Applicable unless a vehicle is certified to ยง 571.216a.
####### Test procedure.

S7.Each vehicle must be capable of meeting the requirements of S5 when tested in accordance with the procedure in S7.1 through 7.6.

S7.1 Place the sills or the chassis frame of the vehicle on a rigid horizontal surface, fix the vehicle rigidly in position, close all windows, close and lock all doors, and secure any convertible top or removable roof structure in place over the occupant compartment. Remove roof racks or other non-structural components.

S7.2 Orient the test device as shown in Figure 1 of this section, so that-

(a) Its longitudinal axis is at a forward angle (in side view) of 5 degrees below the horizontal, and is parallel to the vertical plane through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline;

(b) Its transverse axis is at an outboard angle, in the front view projection, of 25 degrees below the horizontal.

S7.3 Maintaining the orientation specified in S7.2-

(a) Lower the test device until it initially makes contact with the roof of the vehicle.

(b) Position the test device so that-

(1) The longitudinal centerline on its lower surface is on the initial point of contact, or on the center of the initial contact area, with the roof; and

(2) Except as specified in S7.4, the midpoint of the forward edge of the lower surface of the test device is within 10 mm of the transverse vertical plane 254 mm forward of the forwardmost point on the exterior surface of the roof, including windshield trim, that lies in the longitudinal vertical plane passing through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline.

S7.4 If the vehicle being tested is a multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck, or bus that has a raised roof or altered roof, and the initial contact point of the test device is on the raised roof or altered roof to the rear of the roof over the front seat area, the plate is positioned so that the midpoint of the rearward edge of the lower surface of the test device is within 10 mm of the transverse vertical plane located at the rear of the roof over the front seat area.

S7.5 Apply force so that the test device moves in a downward direction perpendicular to the lower surface of the test device at a rate of not more than 13 millimeters per second until reaching the force level specified in S5. Guide the test device so that throughout the test it moves, without rotation, in a straight line with its lower surface oriented as specified in S7.2(a) and S7.2(b). Complete the test within 120 seconds.

S7.6 Measure the distance that the test device moved, i.e., the distance between the original location of the lower surface of the test device and its location as the force level specified in S5 is reached.
