
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.216 Standard No. 216; Roof crush resistance; Applicable unless a vehicle is certified to ยง 571.216a.
####### Alternate test procedure for multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks and buses that have a raised roof or altered roof manufactured until October 25, 2000 (see S5.1).

S8Each vehicle shall be capable of meeting the requirements of S5 when tested in accordance with the following procedure.

S8.1 Place the sills or the chassis frame of the vehicle on a rigid horizontal surface, fix the vehicle rigidly in position, close all windows, close and lock all doors, and secure any convertible top or removable roof structure in place over the passenger compartment.

S8.2 Orient the test device as shown in Figure 2, so that-

(a) Its longitudinal axis is at a forward angle (side view) of 5&#xB0; below the horizontal, and is parallel to the vertical plane through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline;

(b) Its lateral axis is at a lateral outboard angle, in the front view projection, of 25&#xB0; below the horizontal;

(c) Its lower surface is tangent to the surface of the vehicle; and

(d) The initial contact point, or center of the initial contact area, is on the longitudinal centerline of the lower surface of the test device and 254 millimeters from the forwardmost point of that centerline.

S8.3 Apply force in a downward direction perpendicular to the lower surface of the test device at a rate of not more than 13 millimeters per second until reaching a force in Newtons of 1times the unloaded vehicle weight of the tested vehicle, measured in kilograms and multiplied by 9.8. Complete the test within 120 seconds. Guide the test device so that throughout the test it moves, without rotation, in a straight line with its lower surface oriented as specified in S8.2(a) through S8.2(d).
