
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.216a Standard No. 216a; Roof crush resistance; Upgraded standard.
####### Application.

S3.1

(a) This standard applies to passenger cars, and to multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks designed to carry at least one person, and buses with a GVWR of 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) or less, according to the implementation schedule specified in S8 and S9 of this section. However, it does not apply to-

(1) School buses;

(2) Vehicles that conform to the rollover test requirements (S5.3) of Standard No. 208 (§ 571.208) by means that require no action by vehicle occupants;

(3) Convertibles, except for optional compliance with the standard as an alternative to the rollover test requirement (S5.3) of Standard No. 208; or

(4) Trucks built in two or more stages with a GVWR greater than 2,722 kilograms (6,000 pounds) not built using a chassis cab or using an incomplete vehicle with a full exterior van body.

(b) At the option of the manufacturer, vehicles within either of the following categories may comply with the roof crush requirements (S4) of Standard No. 220 (§ 571.220) instead of the requirements of this standard:

(1) Vehicles built in two or more stages, other than vehicles built using a chassis cab;

(2) Vehicles with a GVWR greater than 2,722 kilograms (6,000 pounds) that have an altered roof as defined by S4 of this section.

(c) Manufacturers may comply with the standard in this § 571.216a as an alternative to § 571.216.
