
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.217 Standard No. 217; Bus emergency exits and window retention and release.
####### Window retention.

S5.1Except as provided in S5.1.2, each piece of window glazing and each surrounding window frame when tested in accordance with the procedure in S5.1.1 under the conditions of S6.1 through S6.3, shall be retained by its surrounding structure in a manner that prevents the formation of any opening large enough to admit the passage of a 4-inch diameter sphere under a force, including the weight of the sphere, of 5 pounds until any one of the following events occurs:

(a) A force of 1,200 pounds is reached.

(b) At least 80 percent of the glazing thickness has developed cracks running from the load contact region to the periphery at two or more points, or shattering of the glazing occurs.

(c) The inner surface of the glazing at the center of force application has moved relative to the window frame, along a line perpendicular to the undisturbed inner surface, a distance equal to one-half of the square root of the minimum surface dimension measured through the center of the area of the entire sheet of window glazing.

S5.1.1 An increasing force shall be applied to the window glazing through the head form specified in Figure 4, outward and perpendicular to the undisturbed inside surface at the center of the area of each sheet of window glazing, with a head form travel of 2 inches per minute.

S5.1.2 The requirements of this standard do not apply to a window whose minimum surface dimension measured through the center of its area is less than 8 inches.
