
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.217 Standard No. 217; Bus emergency exits and window retention and release.
####### Magnitude of force:

(c)Not more than 178 newtons.

S5.3.3.2 When tested under the conditions of S6., both before and after the window retention test required by S5.1, each school bus emergency exit window shall allow manual release of the exit by a single person, from inside the passenger compartment, using not more than two release mechanisms located in specified low-force or high-force regions (at the option of the manufacturer) with force applications and types of motions that conform to either S5.3.3.2 (a) or (b) of this section. In the case of windows with one release mechanism, the mechanism shall require two force applications to release the exit. In the case of windows with two release mechanisms, each mechanism shall require one application to release the exit. At least one of the force applications for each window shall differ from the direction of the initial motion to open the exit by no less than 90&#xB0; and no more than 180&#xB0;. Each release mechanism shall operate without the use of remote controls or tools, and notwithstanding any failure of the vehicle's power system. When a release mechanism is open and the vehicle's ignition is in the "on" position, a continuous warning shall be audible at the drivers seating position and in the vicinity of that emergency exit.

(a) Emergency exit windows-Low-force application.
