
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.217 Standard No. 217; Bus emergency exits and window retention and release.
####### Emergency roof exit.

(b)(1) Each emergency roof exit shall be hinged on its forward side, and shall be operable from both inside and outside the vehicle.

(2) In a bus equipped with a single emergency roof exit, the exit shall be located as near as practicable to the midpoint of the passenger compartment.

(3) In a bus equipped with two emergency roof exits, one shall be located as near as practicable to a point equidistant between the midpoint of the passenger compartment and the foremost limit of the passenger compartment and the other shall be located as near as practicable to a point equidistant between the midpoint of the passenger compartment and the rearmost point of the passenger compartment.

(4) In a bus equipped with three or more emergency roof exits, the roof exits shall be installed so that, to the extent practicable, the longitudinal distance between each pair of adjacent roof exits is the same and equal to the distance from the foremost point of the passenger compartment to the foremost roof exit and to the distance from the rearmost point of that compartment to the rearmost roof exit.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, each emergency roof exit shall be installed with its longitudinal centerline coinciding with a longitudinal vertical plane passing through the longitudinal centerline of the school bus.

(6) In a bus equipped with two or more emergency roof exits, for each roof exit offset from the longitudinal vertical plane specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, there shall be another roof exit offset from that plane an equal distance to the other side.
