
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.217 Standard No. 217; Bus emergency exits and window retention and release.
####### Emergency exit doors.

(a)After the release mechanism has been operated, each emergency exit door of a school bus shall, under the conditions of S6., before and after the window retention test required by S5.1, using the force levels specified in S5.3.3, be manually extendable by a single person to a position that permits:

(1) In the case of a rear emergency exit door, an opening large enough to permit unobstructed passage into the bus of a rectangular parallelepiped 1,145 millimeters (45 inches) high, 610 millimeters (24 inches) wide, and 305 millimeters (12 inches) deep, keeping the 1,145 millimeter (45 inch) dimension vertical, the 610 (24 inch) millimeter dimension parallel to the opening, and the lower surface in contact with the floor of the bus at all times, until the bottom edge of the rearmost surface of the parallelepiped is tangent to the plane of the door opening; and

(2) In the case of a side emergency exit door, an opening at least 114 centimeters high and 61 centimeters wide.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, no portion of a seat or a restraining barrier shall be installed within the area bounded by the opening of a side emergency exit door, a vertical transverse plane tangent to the rearward edge of the door opening frame, a vertical transverse plane parallel to that plane at a distance of 30 centimeters forward of that plane, and a longitudinal vertical plane passing through the longitudinal centerline of the bus. (See Figure 5A).

(ii) A seat bottom may be located within the area described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section if the seat bottom pivots and automatically assumes and retains a vertical position when not in use, so that no portion of the seat bottom is within the area described in paragraph (i) when the seat bottom is vertical. (See Figure 5B).

(iii) No portion of a seat or restraining barrier located forward of the area described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and between the door opening and a longitudinal vertical plane passing through the longitudinal centerline of the bus shall extend rearward of a vertical transverse plane tangent to the forwardmost portion of a latch mechanism on the door. (See Figures 5B and 5C.)

(3)(i) Each emergency exit door of a school bus shall be equipped with a positive door opening device that, after the release mechanism has been operated, under the conditions of S6, before and after the window retention test required by S5.1-

(A) Bears the weight of the door;

(B) Keeps the door from closing past the point at which the door is perpendicular to the side of the bus body, regardless of the body's orientation; and

(C) Provides a means for release or override.

(ii) The positive door opening device shall perform the functions specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) (A) and (B) of this section without the need for additional action beyond opening the door past the point at which the door is perpendicular to the side of the bus body.
