
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.217 Standard No. 217; Bus emergency exits and window retention and release.
####### School buses with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less.

S5.4.2.2A school bus with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less shall conform to all the provisions of S5.4.2, except that the parallelepiped dimension for the opening of the rear emergency door or doors shall be 45 inches high, 22 inches wide, and six inches deep.

S5.4.3 Restriction on wheelchair anchorage location.

S5.4.3.1 Except as provided in paragraph S5.4.3.2 of this section, no portion of a wheelchair securement anchorage shall be located in a school bus such that:

(a) In the case of side emergency exit doors, any portion of the wheelchair securement anchorage is within the space bounded by the interior side wall and emergency exit door opening, transverse vertical planes 305 mm (12 inches) forward and rearward of the center of any side emergency exit door restricted area, and a longitudinal vertical plane through the longitudinal centerline of the school bus, as shown in Figure 6A.

(b) In the case of rear emergency exit doors in school buses, using the parallelepiped described in S5.4.2.1(a)(1) (for school buses with a GVWR greater than 10,000 lb) or S5.4.2.2 (for school buses with a GVWR of 10,000 lb or less), when the parallelepiped is positioned, as described in S5.4.2.1(a), flush with the floor and with the rear surface of the parallelepiped tangent to the opening of the rear emergency exit door, there must not be any portion of a wheelchair securement anchorage within the space occupied by the parallelepiped or within the downward vertical projection of the parallelepiped, as shown in Figure 6C.

S5.4.3.2 The restriction in S5.4.3.1(a) of this section does not apply to tracks or track-type devices that are used for mounting seats and/or for wheelchair securement devices.
