
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.217 Standard No. 217; Bus emergency exits and window retention and release.
####### School Bus.

S5.5.3

(a) Each school bus emergency exit provided in accordance with S5.2.3.1 shall have the designation "Emergency Door" or "Emergency Exit," as appropriate, in letters at least 5 centimeters high, of a color that contrasts with its background. For emergency exit doors, the designation shall be located at the top of, or directly above, the emergency exit door on both the inside and outside surfaces of the bus. The designation for roof exits shall be located on an inside surface of the exit, or within 30 centimeters of the roof exit opening. For emergency window exits, the designation shall be located at the top of, or directly above, or at the bottom of the emergency window exit on both the inside and outside surfaces of the bus.

(b) Concise operating instructions describing the motions necessary to unlatch and open the emergency exit shall be located within 15 centimeters of the release mechanism on the inside surface of the bus. These instructions shall be in letters at least 1 centimeter high and of a color that contrasts with its background.

(c) Each opening for a required emergency exit shall be outlined around its outside perimeter with a retroreflective tape with a minimum width of 2.5 centimeters and either red, white, or yellow in color, that when tested under the conditions specified in S6.1 of Standard No. 131 (49 CFR 571.131), meets the criteria specified in Table 1 of that section.

(d) On the inside surface of each school bus with one or more wheelchair anchorage positions, there shall be a label directly beneath or above each "Emergency Door" or "Emergency Exit" designation specified by paragraph (a) of S5.5.3 of this standard for an emergency exit door or window. The label shall state in letters at least 25 mm (one inch) high, the words "DO NOT BLOCK" in a color that contrasts with the background of the label.
