
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.218 Standard No. 218; Motorcycle helmets.
####### Labeling.

S5.6

S5.6.1 On a label or labels separate from the certification label required by S5.6.2, each helmet shall be labeled permanently and legibly, in a manner such that the label(s) can be read easily without removing padding or any other permanent part, with the following:

(a) Manufacturer's name.

(b) Discrete size.

(c) Month and year of manufacture. This may be spelled out (for example, June 2010), or expressed in numerals (for example, 6/10).

(d) Instructions to the purchaser as follows:

(1) "Shell and liner constructed of (identify type(s) of materials)."

(2) "Helmet can be seriously damaged by some common substances without damage being visible to the user. Apply only the following: (Recommended cleaning agents, paints, adhesives, etc., as appropriate)."

(3) "Make no modifications. Fasten helmet securely. If helmet experiences a severe blow, return it to the manufacturer for inspection, or destroy it and replace it."

(4) Any additional relevant safety information should be applied at the time of purchase by means of an attached tag, brochure, or other suitable means.

S5.6.2 Certification. Each helmet shall be labeled permanently and legibly with a label, constituting the manufacturer's certification that the helmet conforms to the applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards, that is separate from the label(s) used to comply with S5.6.1, and complies with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

(a) Content, format, and appearance. The label required by paragraph S5.6.2 shall have the following content, format, and appearance:

(1) The symbol "DOT," horizontally centered on the label, in letters not less than 0.38 inch (1.0 cm) high.

(2) The term "FMVSS No. 218," horizontally centered beneath the symbol DOT, in letters not less than 0.09 inches (0.23 cm) high.

(3) The word "CERTIFIED," horizontally centered beneath the term "FMVSS No. 218," in letters not less than 0.09 inches (0.23 cm) high.

(4) The precise model designation, horizontally centered above the symbol DOT, in letters and/or numerals not less than 0.09 inch (0.23 cm) high.

(5) The manufacturer's name and/or brand, horizontally centered above the model designation, in letters and/or numerals not less than 0.09 inch (0.23 cm) high.

(6) All symbols, letters and numerals shall be in a color that contrasts with the background of the label.

(b) Other information. No information, other than the information specified in subparagraph (a), shall appear on the label.

(c) Location. The label shall appear on the outer surface of the helmet and be placed so that it is centered laterally with the horizontal centerline of the DOT symbol located a minimum of 1 inch (2.5 cm) and a maximum of 3 inches (7.6 cm) from the bottom edge of the posterior portion of the helmet.
