
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.218 Standard No. 218; Motorcycle helmets.
####### Penetration test.

S7.2

S7.2.1 The penetration test is conducted by dropping the penetration test striker in guided free fall, with its axis aligned vertically, onto the outer surface of the complete helmet, when mounted as specified in S6.3, at any point above the test line, described in S6.2.3, except on a fastener or other rigid projection.

S7.2.2 Two penetration blows are applied at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) apart, and at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) from the centers of any impacts applied during the impact attenuation test.

S7.2.3 The application of the two penetration blows, specified in S7.2.2, starts at two minutes and is completed by four minutes, after removal of the helmet from the conditioning environment.

S7.2.4 The height of the guided free fall is 118.1 +/-0.6 in (3 +/-0.015 m), as measured from the striker point to the impact point on the outer surface of the test helmet.

S7.2.5 The contactable surface of the penetration test headform is constructed of a metal or metallic alloy having a Brinell hardness number no greater than 55, which will permit ready detection should contact by the striker occur. The surface is refinished if necessary before each penetration test blow to permit detection of contact by the striker.

S7.2.6 The weight of the penetration striker is not less than 6 pounds, 8 ounces and not more than 6 pounds, 12 ounces (2.95 to 3.06 kg).

S7.2.7 The point of the striker has an included angle of 60 +/-0.5&#xB0;, a cone height of 1.5 +/-0.015 in. (3.8 +/-0.038 cm), a tip radius of 0.02 +/-0.004 in. (0.5 +/-0.1 mm), and a minimum hardness of 60 Rockwell, C-scale.

S7.2.8 The rigid mount for the penetration test headform is as described in S7.1.11.
