
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.219 Standard No. 219; Windshield zone intrusion.
####### Test conditions.

S7.The requirement of S5. shall be met under the following conditions:

S7.1 The protected zone template is affixed to the windshield in the manner described in S6.

S7.2 The hood, hood latches, and any other hood retention components are engaged prior to the barrier crash.

S7.3 Adjustable cowl tops or other adjustable panels in front of the windshield are in the position used under normal operating conditions when windshield wiping systems are not in use.

S7.4 The parking brake is disengaged and the transmission is in neutral.

S7.5 Tires are inflated to the vehicle manufacturer's specifications.

S7.6 The fuel tank is filled to any level from 90 to 95 per cent of capacity.

S7.7 The vehicle, including test devices and instrumentation, is loaded as follows:

(a) Except as specified in S7.6, a passenger car is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight plus its rated cargo and luggage capacity weight, secured in the luggage area, plus a 50th-percentile test dummy as specified in part 572 of this chapter at each front outboard designated seating position and at any other position whose protection system is required to be tested by a dummy under the provisions of Standard No. 208. Each dummy is restrained only by means that are installed for protection at its seating position.

(b) Except as specified in S7.6, a multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck or bus is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight, plus 136 kg or its rated cargo and luggage capacity, whichever is less, secured to the vehicle, plus a 50th-percentile test dummy as specified in part 572 of this chapter at each front outboard designated seating postion and at any other position whose protection system is required to be tested by a dummy under the provisions of Standard No. 208. Each dummy is restrained only by means that are installed for protection at its seating position. The load is distributed so that the mass on each axle as measured at the tire-ground interface is in proportion to its GAWR. If the mass on any axle when the vehicle is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight plus dummy mass exceeds the axle's proportional share of the test mass, the remaining mass is placed so that the mass on that axle remains the same. For the purposes of this section, unloaded vehicle weight does not include the mass of work-performing accessories. Vehicles are tested to a maximum unloaded vehicle weight of 2,495 kg.
