
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.219 Standard No. 219; Windshield zone intrusion.
####### Protected zone template.

S6.

S6.1 The lower edge of the protected zone is determined by the following procedure (See Figure 1).

(a) Place a 165 mm diameter rigid sphere, with a mass of 6.8 kg in a position such that it simultaneously contacts the inner surface of the windshield glazing and the surface of the instrument panel, including padding. If any accessories or equipment such as the steering control system obstruct positioning of the sphere, remove them for the purposes of this procedure.

(b) Draw the locus of points on the inner surface of the windshield contactable by the sphere across the width of the instrument panel. From the outermost contactable points, extend the locus line horizontally to the edges of the glazing material.

(c) Draw a line on the inner surface of the windshield below and 13 mm distant from the locus line.

(d) The lower edge of the protected zone is the longitudinal projection onto the outer surface of the windshield of the line determined in S6.1(c).

S6.2 The protected zone is the space enclosed by the following surfaces, as shown in Figure 1:

(a) The outer surface of the windshield in its precrash configuration.

(b) The locus of points 76 mm outward along perpendiculars drawn to each point on the outer surface of the windshield.

(c) The locus of lines forming a 45&#xB0; angle with the outer surface of the windshield at each point along the top and side edges of the outer surface of the windshield and the lower edge of the protected zone determined in S6.1, in the plane perpendicular to the edge at that point.

S6.3 A template is cut or formed from Styrofoam, type DB, cut cell, to the dimensions of the zone as determined in S6.2. The template is affixed to the windshield so that it delineates the protected zone and remains affixed throughout the crash test.
