
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.221 Standard No. 221; School bus body joint strength.
####### Determination of minimum allowable strength.

S6.2For purposes of determining the minimum allowable joint strength, determine the tensile strengths of the joined body components as follows:

(a) If the mechanical properties of a joint component material are specified in ASTM E8-89 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), the lowest value of that material's thickness and tensile strength per unit of area shown in that source shall be used.

(b) If the mechanical properties of a material are not specified in ASTM E8-89 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5), determine its tensile strength by cutting a sheet specimen from outside the joint region of the bus body in accordance with Figure 1 of ASTM E8-89, and by testing it in accordance with S6.3.

(c) The cross sectional area of material removed to facilitate the installation of fasteners shall be subtracted from the cross-sectional area of the panel in the determination of the tensile strength of the weakest joined body panel.

S6.3 Strength Test.

S6.3.1 The joint specimen is gripped on opposite sides of the joint in a tension testing machine in accordance with ASTM E8-89 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5).

S6.3.2 Adjust the testing machine grips so that the applied force on the joint is at 90 degrees plus or minus 3 degrees from the joint centerline, as shown in Figure 1.

S6.3.3 A tensile force is applied to the specimen by separating the heads of the testing machine at any uniform rate not less than 3 mm and not more than 10 mm per minute until the specimen separates.
