
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.222 Standard No. 222; School bus passenger seating and crash protection.
####### Determination of the number of seating positions and seat belt positions

S4.1

(a) The number of seating positions considered to be in a bench seat for vehicles manufactured before October 21, 2011 is expressed by the symbol W, and calculated as the seat bench width in millimeters divided by 381 and rounded to the nearest whole number.

(b) The number of seating positions and the number of Type 1 seat belt positions considered to be in a bench seat for vehicles manufactured on or after October 21, 2011 is expressed by the symbol W, and calculated as the seat bench width in millimeters divided by 380 and rounded to the nearest whole number.

(c) Except as provided in S4.1(d), the number of Type 2 seat belt positions on a flexible occupancy seat in a minimum occupancy configuration or a fixed occupancy seat for vehicles manufactured on or after October 21, 2011 is expressed by the symbol Y, and calculated as the seat bench width in millimeters divided by 380 and rounded to the next lowest whole number. The minimum seat bench width for a seat equipped with a Type 2 seat belt is 380 mm. See Table 1 for an illustration.

(d) A flexible occupancy seat meeting the requirements of S4.1(c) may also have a maximum occupancy configuration with Y + 1 Type 2 seat belt positions, if the minimum seat bench width for this configuration is Y + 1 times 330 mm. See Table 1 for an illustration.

(e) A flexible occupancy seat equipped with Type 2 seat belts in a maximum occupancy configuration may have up to one single small occupant seating position.
