
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.222 Standard No. 222; School bus passenger seating and crash protection.
####### Quasi-static test procedure.

S5.1.6.5

S5.1.6.5.1 Adjust the seat back as specified in S5.1.6.3. Place all torso anchor points in their highest position of adjustment. If the torso belt adjusted height, as defined in S3 of FMVSS No. 210, is achieved by a method other than an adjustable anchor point, initially place the torso belt adjusted height at its highest position. Then move the adjustment device 38 mm (1.5 inches) downward with respect to its webbing or guide material.

S5.1.6.5.2 Position the lower loading bar specified in S6.5 of this standard so that it is laterally centered behind the seat back with the bar's longitudinal axis in a transverse plane of the vehicle and in any horizontal plane between 102 mm (4 inches) above and 102 mm (4 inches) below the seating reference point of the school bus passenger seat behind the test specimen. Position the upper loading bar described in S6.5 so that it is laterally centered behind the seat back with the bar's longitudinal axis in a transverse plane of the vehicle and in the horizontal plane 406 mm (16 inches) above the seating reference point of the school bus passenger seat behind the test specimen.

S5.1.6.5.3 Apply a force of 3,114W N (700W pounds) horizontally in the forward direction through the lower loading bar specified at S6.5 at the pivot attachment point. Reach the specified load in not less than 5 and not more than 30 seconds. No sooner than 1.0 second after attaining the required force, reduce that force to 1,557W N (350W pounds) and maintain the pivot point position of the loading bar at the position where the 1,557W N (350W pounds) is attained until the completion of S5.1.6.5.7 of this standard.

S5.1.6.5.4 Position the body block specified in Figure 3 of FMVSS No. 210 (49 CFR 571.210) under each torso belt (between the torso belt and the seat back) in the passenger seat and apply a preload force of 600 +/-50 N (135 +/-11 pounds) on each body block in a forward direction parallel to the longitudinal centerline of the vehicle pursuant to the specifications of Standard No. 210 (49 CFR 571.210). After preload application is complete, the origin of the 203 mm body block radius at any point across the 102 mm body block thickness shall lie within the zone defined by S5.1.6.5.4(a) and S5.1.6.5.4(b) as shown in Figure 9:

(a) At or rearward of a transverse vertical plane of the vehicle located 100 mm longitudinally forward of the seating reference point.

(b) Within 75 mm of the horizontal plane located midway between the horizontal plane passing through the school bus torso belt adjusted height, specified in S3 of Standard No. 210 (49 CFR 571.210), and the horizontal plane 100 mm below the seating reference point.
