
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.222 Standard No. 222; School bus passenger seating and crash protection.
####### Seat performance rearward.

S5.1.4When a school bus passenger seat that has another seat behind it is subjected to the application of force as specified in S5.1.4.1 and S5.1.4.2:

(a) Seat back force shall not exceed 9,786 N;

(b) Seat back deflection shall not exceed 254 mm; (for determination of (a) and (b) the force/deflection curve describes only the force applied through the loading bar, and only the rearward travel of the pivot attachment point of the loading bar, measured from the point at which the initial application of 222 N is attained.

(c) The seat shall not deflect by an amount such that any part of the seat moves to within 102 mm of any part of another passenger seat in its originally installed position;

(d) The seat shall not separate from the vehicle at any attachment point; and

(e) Seat components shall not separate at any attachment point.

S5.1.4.1 Position the loading bar described in S6.5 so that it is laterally centered forward of the seat back with the bar's longitudinal axis in a transverse plane of the vehicle and in the horizontal plane 343 mm above the seating reference point of the test specimen, and move the loading bar rearward against the seat back until a force of 222 N has been applied.

S5.1.4.2 Apply additional force horizontally rearward through the loading bar until 316W joules (J) of energy has been absorbed in deflecting the seat back. Apply the additional load in not less than 5 seconds nor more than 30 seconds. Maintain the pivot attachment point in the maximum rearward travel position for not less than 5 seconds nor more than 10 seconds and release the load in not less than 5 seconds nor more than 30 seconds. (For determination of S5.1.4.2 the force deflection curve describes the force applied through the loading bar and the rearward and forward travel distance of the loading bar pivot attachment point measured from the position at which the initial application of 222 N of force is attained.)
