
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.222 Standard No. 222; School bus passenger seating and crash protection.
####### Seat performance forward.

S5.1.3When a school bus passenger seat that has another seat behind it is subjected to the application of force as specified in S5.1.3.1 and S5.1.3.2, and subsequently, the application of additional force to the seat back as specified in S5.1.3.3 and S5.1.3.4:

(a) The seat back force/deflection curve shall fall within the zone specified in Figure 1;

(b) Seat back deflection shall not exceed 356 mm; (for determination of (a) and (b) the force/deflection curve describes only the force applied through the upper loading bar, and only the forward travel of the pivot attachment point of the upper loading bar, measured from the point at which the initial application of 44 N of force is attained.)

(c) The seat shall not deflect by an amount such that any part of the seat moves to within 102 mm of any part of another school bus passenger seat or restraining barrier in its originally installed position;

(d) The seat shall not separate from the vehicle at any attachment point; and

(e) Seat components shall not separate at any attachment point.

S5.1.3.1 Position the loading bar specified in S6.5 so that it is laterally centered behind the seat back with the bar's longitudinal axis in a transverse plane of the vehicle and in any horizontal plane between 102 mm above and 102 mm below the seating reference point of the school bus passenger seat behind the test specimen.

S5.1.3.2 Apply a force of 3,114W newtons horizontally in the forward direction through the loading bar at the pivot attachment point. Reach the specified load in not less than 5 nor more than 30 seconds.

S5.1.3.3 No sooner than 1.0 second after attaining the required force, reduce that force to 1,557W newtons and, while maintaining the pivot point position of the first loading bar at the position where the 1,557W newtons is attained, position a second loading bar described in S6.5 so that it is laterally centered behind the seat back with the bar's longitudinal axis in a transverse plane of the vehicle and in the horizontal plane 406 mm above the seating reference point of the school bus passenger seat behind the test specimen, and move the bar forward against the seat back until a force of 44 N has been applied.

S5.1.3.4 Apply additional force horizontally in the forward direction through the upper bar until 452W joules of energy have been absorbed in deflecting the seat back (or restraining barrier). Apply the additional load in not less than 5 seconds nor more than 30 seconds. Maintain the pivot attachment point in the maximum forward travel position for not less than 5 seconds nor more than 10 seconds and release the load in not less than 5 nor more than 30 seconds. (For the determination of S5.1.3.4 the force/deflection curve describes only the force applied through the upper loading bar, and the forward and rearward travel distance of the upper loading bar pivot attachment point measured from the position at which the initial application of 44 N of force is attained.)
