
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.222 Standard No. 222; School bus passenger seating and crash protection.
####### Flexible Occupancy Seat.

(b)

(1) For school buses with the gross vehicle weight rating listed in the first column of Table 5 and a bench seat in the maximum occupancy configuration for a flexible occupancy seat of Y + 1 seat belt positions as specified in S4.1(d), simultaneously apply the force listed in the second column of Table 5 to each body block.

(2) For a flexible occupancy seat in the minimum occupant configuration, apply the forces to each body block as specified in S5.1.6.5.5(a).

S5.1.6.5.6 Reach the specified load in not less than 5 and not more than 30 seconds. While maintaining the load, measure the school bus torso belt anchor point and seat back point horizontal displacement and then remove the body block.

S5.1.6.5.7 Move the upper bar forward against the seat back until a force of 44 N has been applied. Apply an additional force horizontally in the forward direction through the upper bar until 452W joules of energy have been absorbed in deflecting the seat back. The maximum travel of the pivot attachment point for the upper loading bar shall not exceed 356 mm as measured from the position at which the initial application of 44 N of force is attained and the maximum load must stay below the upper boundary of the force/deflection zone in Figure 1. Apply the additional load in not less than 5 seconds and not more than 30 seconds. Maintain the pivot attachment point at the maximum forward travel position for not less than 5 seconds, and not more than 10 seconds and release the load in not less than 5 seconds and not more than 30 seconds. (For the determination of S5.1.6.5.7, the energy calculation describes only the force applied through the upper loading bar, and the forward and rearward travel distance of the upper loading bar pivot attachment point measured from the position at which the application in this section of 44 N of force is attained.)
