
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.222 Standard No. 222; School bus passenger seating and crash protection.
####### Wheelchair occupant restraint anchorages.

S5.4.3

S5.4.3.1 Each wheelchair location shall have:

(a) Not less than one anchorage for the upper end of the upper torso restraint; and

(b) Not less than two floor anchorages for wheelchair occupant pelvic and upper torso restraint.

S5.4.3.2 Each wheelchair occupant restraint floor anchorage shall be capable of withstanding a force of 13,344 Newtons applied as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d). When more than one wheelchair occupant restraint share a common anchorage, the anchorage shall be capable of withstanding a force of 13,344 Newtons multiplied by the number of occupant restraints sharing that anchorage.

(a) The initial application force shall be applied at an angle of not less than 45 degrees, but not more than 80 degrees, measured from the horizontal. (See Figure 5.)

(b) The horizontal projection of the force direction shall be within a horizontal arc of +/-45 degrees relative to a longitudinal line which has its origin at the anchorage and projects forward. (See Figure 5.)

(c) The force shall be applied at an onset rate of not more than 133,440 Newtons per second.

(d) The 13,344 Newton force shall be attained in not more than 30 seconds, and shall be maintained for 10 seconds.

(e) When a wheelchair securement device and an occupant restraint share a common anchorage, including occupant restraint designs that attach the occupant restraint to the securement device or the wheelchair, the loads specified by S5.4.1.3 and S5.4.3.2 shall be applied simultaneously, under the conditions specified in S5.4.3.2 (a) and (b). (See Figure 6.)

S5.4.3.3 Each anchorage for a wheelchair occupant upper torso restraint shall be capable of withstanding a force of 6,672 Newtons applied as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d).

(a) The initial application force shall be applied at a vertical angle of not less than zero degrees, but not more than 40 degrees, below a horizontal plane which passes through the anchorage. (See Figure 7.)

(b) The projection of the force direction onto the horizontal plane shall be within zero degrees and 45 degrees as measured from a longitudinal line with its origin at the anchorage and projecting forward. (See Figure 7.)

(c) The force shall be applied at the onset rate of not more than 66,720 Newtons per second.

(d) The 6,672 Newton force shall be attained in not more than 30 seconds, and shall be maintained for 10 seconds.
