
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.222 Standard No. 222; School bus passenger seating and crash protection.
####### Wheelchair securement anchorages.

S5.4.1Each wheelchair location shall have not less than four wheelchair securement anchorages complying with S5.4.1.1 through S5.4.1.3.

S5.4.1.1 Each wheelchair securement anchorage shall have a wheelchair securement device complying with S5.4.2 attached to it.

S5.4.1.2 The wheelchair securement anchorages at each wheelchair location shall be situated so that-

(a) A wheelchair can be secured in a forward-facing position.

(b) The wheelchair can be secured by wheelchair securement devices at two locations in the front and two locations in the rear.

(c) The front wheel of a three-wheeled wheelchair can be secured.

S5.4.1.3 Each wheelchair securement anchorage shall be capable of withstanding a force of 13,344 Newtons applied as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. When more than one securement device share a common anchorage, the anchorage shall be capable of withstanding a force of 13,344 Newtons multiplied by the number of securement devices sharing that anchorage.

(a) The initial application force shall be applied at an angle of not less than 30 degrees, but not more than 60 degrees, measured from the horizontal. (See Figure 4.)

(b) The horizontal projection of the force direction shall be within a horizontal arc of +/-45 degrees relative to a longitudinal line which has its origin at the anchorage location and projects rearward for an anchorage whose wheelchair securement device is intended to secure the front of the wheelchair and forward for an anchorage whose wheelchair securement device is intended to secure the rear of the wheelchair. (See Figure 4.)

(c) The force shall be applied at the onset rate of not more than 133,440 Newtons per second.

(d) The 13,344 Newton force shall be attained in not more than 30 seconds, and shall be maintained for 10 seconds.
