
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.222 Standard No. 222; School bus passenger seating and crash protection.
####### Head form.

S6.6The head form for the measurement of acceleration is a rigid surface comprised of two hemispherical shapes, with total equivalent mass of 5.2 kg. The first of the two hemispherical shapes has a diameter of 166 mm. The second of the two hemispherical shapes has a 50 mm diameter and is centered as shown in Figure 3 to protrude from the outer surface of the first hemispherical shape. The surface roughness of the hemispherical shapes does not exceed 1.6 µm, root mean square.

S6.6.1 The direction of travel of the head form is coincidental with the straight line connecting the centerpoints of the two spherical outer surfaces which constitute the head form shape.

S6.6.2 The head form is instrumented with an acceleration sensing device whose output is recorded in a data channel that conforms to the requirements for a 1,000 Hz channel class as specified in SAE Recommended Practice J211a (1971) (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5). The head form exhibits no resonant frequency below three times the frequency of the channel class. The axis of the acceleration sensing device coincides with the straight line connecting the centerpoints of the two hemispherical outer surfaces which constitute the head form shape.

S6.6.3 The head form is guided by a stroking device so that the direction of travel of the head form is not affected by impact with the surface being tested at the levels called for in the standard.
