
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.222 Standard No. 222; School bus passenger seating and crash protection.
####### Knee form.

S6.7The knee form for measurement of force is a rigid 76 millimeter-diameter cylinder, with an equivalent weight of 44 N that has one hemispherical end with a 38 mm radius forming a contact surface of the knee form. The hemispherical surface roughness does not exceed 1.6 µm, root mean square.

S6.7.1 The direction of travel of the knee form is coincidental with the centerline of the rigid cylinder.

S6.7.2 The knee form is instrumented with an acceleration sensing device whose output is recorded in a data channel that conforms to the requirements of a 600 Hz channel class as specified in SAE Recommended Practice J211a (1971) (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5). The knee form exhibits no resonant frequency below three times the frequency of the channel class. The axis of the acceleration sensing device is aligned to measure acceleration along the centerline of the cylindrical knee form.

S6.7.3 The knee form is guided by a stroking device so that the direction of travel of the knee form is not affected by impact with the surface being tested at the levels called for in the standard.

S6.8 The head form, knee form, and contactable surfaces are clean and dry during impact testing.
