
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.223 Standard No. 223; Rear impact guards.
####### Guard Installation for Strength and Energy Absorption Tests.

S6.2

(a) The rear impact guard is attached to a test device.

(b) The test device for the compliance test will be whichever of the following devices, if either was used, the manufacturer used as a basis for its certification of the guard in S5.3(c) of this section. If the manufacturer did not use one of these devices or does not specify a device when asked by the agency, the agency may choose either of the following devices-

(1) A rigid test fixture. In the case of testing on a rigid test fixture NHTSA will consult the installation instructions or procedures to determine the surface or structure that the guard is supposed to be mounted to and mount it to the rigid test fixture in the same way.

(2) A complete trailer for which installation of the guard is suitable, as provided in the manufacturer's installation instructions or procedures required by S5.5 of this section. The trailer chassis is secured so that it behaves essentially as a fixed object during the test, such that the test must be passed no matter how little it moves during the test.

(c) The guard is attached in accordance with the instructions or procedures for guard attachment provided by the guard manufacturer for that guard as required by S5.5 of this section.
