
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### § 571.225 Standard No. 225; Child restraint anchorage systems.
####### General exceptions.

S5.

(a) Convertibles and school buses are excluded from the requirements to be equipped with tether anchorages.

(b) A vehicle may be equipped with a built-in child restraint system conforming to the requirements of Standard No. 213 (49 CFR 571.213) instead of one of the required tether anchorages or child restraint anchorage systems.

(c)(1) Each vehicle that-

(i) Does not have a rear designated seating position and that thus meets the conditions in S4.5.4.1(a) of Standard No. 208 (§ 571.208); and

(ii) Has an air bag on-off switch meeting the requirements of S4.5.4 of Standard No. 208 (§ 571.208), shall have a child restraint anchorage system for a designated passenger seating position in the front seat, instead of only a tether anchorage. In the case of convertibles, the front designated passenger seating position need have only the two lower anchorages meeting the requirements of S9 of this standard.

(iii) For vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2002, each vehicle that does not have a rear designated seating position, and does not have an air bag installed at front passenger designated seating positions pursuant to a temporary exemption granted by NHTSA under 49 CFR Part 555, must have a child restraint anchorage system installed at a front passenger designated seating position. In the case of convertibles, the front designated passenger seating position need have only the two lower anchorages meeting the requirements of S9 of this standard.

(2) Each vehicle that-

(i) Has a rear designated seating position and meets the conditions in S4.5.4.1(b) of Standard No. 208 (§ 571.208); and,

(ii) Has an air bag on-off switch meeting the requirements of S4.5.4 of Standard 208 (§ 571.208), shall have a child restraint anchorage system for a designated passenger seating position in the front seat, instead of a child restraint anchorage system that is required for the rear seat. In the case of convertibles, the front designated passenger seating position need have only the two lower anchorages meeting the requirements of S9 of this standard.

(iii) For vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2002, each vehicle that has a rear designated seating position and meets the conditions in S4.5.4.1(b) of Standard No. 208 (§ 571.208), and does not have an air bag installed at front passenger designated seating positions pursuant to a temporary exemption granted by NHTSA under 49 CFR Part 555, must have a child restraint anchorage system installed at a front passenger designated seating position in place of one of the child restraint anchorage systems that is required for the rear seat. In the case of convertibles, the front designated passenger seating position need have only the two lower anchorages meeting the requirements of S9 of this standard.

(d) A vehicle that does not have an air bag on-off switch meeting the requirements of S4.5.4 of Standard No. 208 (§ 571.208), shall not have any child restraint anchorage system installed at a front designated seating position.

(e) A vehicle with a rear designated seating position for which interference with transmission and/or suspension components prevents the location of the lower bars of a child restraint anchorage system anywhere within the zone described by S9.2 or S15.1.2.2(b) such that the attitude angles of S15.1.2.2(a) could be met, is excluded from the requirement to provide a child restraint anchorage system at that position. However, except as provided elsewhere in S5 of this standard, for vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2001, such a vehicle must have a tether anchorage at a front passenger designated seating position.
