
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.225 Standard No. 225; Child restraint anchorage systems.
####### General vehicle requirements.

S4.

S4.1 Each tether anchorage and each child restraint anchorage system installed, either voluntarily or pursuant to this standard, in any new vehicle manufactured on or after September 1, 1999, shall comply with the configuration, location, marking and strength requirements of this standard. The vehicle shall be delivered with written information, in English, on how to appropriately use those anchorages and systems.

S4.2 For passenger cars manufactured on or after September 1, 1999 and before September 1, 2000, not less than 80 percent of the manufacturer's average annual production of vehicles (not including convertibles), as set forth in S13, shall be equipped with a tether anchorage as specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of S4.2, except as provided in S5.

(a) Each vehicle with three or more forward-facing rear designated seating positions shall be equipped with a tether anchorage conforming to the requirements of S6 at no fewer than three forward-facing rear designated seating positions. The tether anchorage of a child restraint anchorage system may count towards the three required tether anchorages. In each vehicle with a forward-facing rear designated seating position other than an outboard designated seating position, at least one tether anchorage (with or without the lower anchorages of a child restraint anchorage system) shall be at such a designated seating position. In a vehicle with three or more rows of seating positions, at least one of the tether anchorages (with or without the lower anchorages of a child restraint anchorage system) shall be installed at a forward-facing seating position in the second row if such a forward-facing seating position is available in that row.

(b) Each vehicle with not more than two forward-facing rear designated seating positions shall be equipped with a tether anchorage conforming to the requirements of S6 at each forward-facing rear designated seating position. The tether anchorage of a child restraint anchorage system may count toward the required tether anchorages.

(c) Each vehicle without any forward-facing rear designated seating position shall be equipped with a tether anchorage conforming to the requirements of S6 at each front forward-facing passenger seating position.

S4.3 Each vehicle manufactured on or after September 1, 2000 and before September 1, 2002, shall be equipped as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of S4.3, except as provided in S5.

(a) A specified percentage of each manufacturer's yearly production, as set forth in S14, shall be equipped as follows:

(1) Each vehicle with three or more forward-facing rear designated seating positions shall be equipped with a child restraint anchorage system conforming to the requirements of S9 at not fewer than two forward-facing rear designated seating positions. In a vehicle with three or more rows of seating positions, at least one of the child restraint anchorage systems shall be at a forward-facing seating position in the second row if such a forward-facing seating position is available in that row.

(2) Each vehicle with not more than two forward-facing rear designated seating positions shall be equipped with a child restraint anchorage system conforming to the requirements of S9 at each forward-facing rear designated seating position.

(b) Each vehicle, including a vehicle that is counted toward the percentage of a manufacturer's yearly production required to be equipped with child restraint anchorage systems, shall be equipped as described in S4.3(b)(1), (2) or (3), subject to S13.

(1) Each vehicle with three or more forward-facing rear designated seating positions shall be equipped with a tether anchorage conforming to the requirements of S6 at no fewer than three forward-facing rear designated seating positions. The tether anchorage of a child restraint anchorage system may count towards the three required tether anchorages. In each vehicle with a forward-facing rear designated seating position other than an outboard designated seating position, at least one tether anchorage (with or without the lower anchorages of a child restraint anchorage system) shall be at such a designated seating position. In a vehicle with three or more rows of seating positions, at least one of the tether anchorages (with or without the lower anchorages of a child restraint anchorage system) shall be installed at a forward-facing seating position in the second row if such a forward-facing seating position is available in that row.

(2) Each vehicle with not more than two forward-facing rear designated seating positions shall be equipped with a tether anchorage conforming to the requirements of S6 at each forward-facing rear designated seating position. The tether anchorage of a child restraint anchorage system may count toward the required tether anchorages.

(3) Each vehicle without any forward-facing rear designated seating position shall be equipped with a tether anchorage conforming to the requirements of S6 at each front passenger seating position.

S4.4 Vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2002 shall be equipped as specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of S4.4, except as provided in S5.

(a) Each vehicle with three or more forward-facing rear designated seating positions shall be equipped as specified in S4.4(a)(1) and (2).

(1) Each vehicle shall be equipped with a child restraint anchorage system conforming to the requirements of S9 at not fewer than two forward-facing rear designated seating positions. At least one of the child restraint anchorage systems shall be installed at a forward-facing seating position in the second row in each vehicle that has three or more rows, if such a forward-facing seating position is available in that row.

(2) Each vehicle shall be equipped with a tether anchorage conforming to the requirements of S6 at a third forward-facing rear designated seating position. The tether anchorage of a child restraint anchorage system may count towards the third required tether anchorage. In each vehicle with a forward-facing rear designated seating position other than an outboard designated seating position, at least one tether anchorage (with or without the lower anchorages of a child restraint anchorage system) shall be at such a designated seating position.

(b) Each vehicle with not more than two forward-facing rear designated seating positions shall be equipped with a child restraint anchorage system conforming to the requirements of S9 at each forward-facing rear designated seating position.

(c) Each vehicle without any forward-facing rear designated seating position shall be equipped with a tether anchorage conforming to the requirements of S6 at each front forward-facing passenger seating position.

S4.5 As an alternative to complying with the requirements of S4.2 through S4.4 that specify the number of tether anchorages that are required in a vehicle and the designated seating positions for which tether anchorages must be provided, a vehicle manufactured from September 1, 1999 to August 31, 2004 may, at the manufacturer's option (with said option irrevocably selected prior to, or at the time of, certification of the vehicle), meet the requirements of this S4.5. This alternative ceases to be available on and after September 1, 2004. A tether anchorage conforming to the requirements of S6 must be installed-

(a) For each designated seating position, other than that of the driver, in a vehicle that has only one row of designated seating positions;

(b) For each forward-facing designated seating position in the second row of seating positions in a passenger car or truck;

(c) For each of any two forward-facing designated seating positions in the second row of seating positions in a multipurpose passenger vehicle that has five or fewer designated seating positions; and,

(d) For each of any three forward-facing designated seating positions that are located to the rear of the first row of designated seating positions in a multipurpose passenger vehicle that has six or more designated seating positions.
