
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.225 Standard No. 225; Child restraint anchorage systems.
####### Test procedures.

S8Each vehicle shall meet the requirements of S6.3.1 and S6.3.3 when tested according to the following procedures. Where a range of values is specified, the vehicle shall be able to meet the requirements at all points within the range. For the testing specified in these procedures, the SFAD used in the test has a tether strap consisting of webbing material with an elongation limit of 4 percent at a tensile load of 65,000 N (14,612 lb). Pretension the tether strap with 53.5 N to 67 N of preload prior to the test. The strap is fitted at one end with a high strength steel tether hook for attachment to the tether anchorage. The tether hook meets the specifications in Standard No. 213 (49 CFR ยง 571.213) as to the configuration and geometry of tether hooks required by the standard. A steel cable is connected to the X point through which the test force is applied.

S8.1 Apply the force specified in S6.3.1 as follows-

(a) Use the following specified test device, as appropriate:

(1) SFAD 1, to test a tether anchorage at a designated seating position that does not have a child restraint anchorage system; or,

(2) SFAD 2, to test a tether anchorage at a designated seating position that has a child restraint anchorage system.

(b) Attach the SFAD 1 to the vehicle seat using the vehicle belts or the SFAD 2 to the lower anchorages of the child restraint anchorage system, as appropriate, and attach the test device to the tether anchorage, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions provided pursuant to S12 of this standard. For the testing specified in this procedure, if SFAD 1 cannot be attached using the vehicle belts because of the location of the vehicle belt buckle, the test device is attached by material whose breaking strength is equal to or greater than the breaking strength of the webbing for the seat belt assembly installed as original equipment at that seating position. The geometry of the attachment duplicates the geometry, at the pre-load point, of the attachment of the originally installed seat belt assembly. All belt systems (including the tether) used to attach the test device are tightened to a tension of not less than 53.5 N and not more than 67 N on the webbing portion of the belt. For SFAD 1, apply a rearward force of 135 N +/-15 N, in a horizontal plane through point "X" of SFAD 1. While maintaining the force, tighten the vehicle seat belt to a tension of not less than 53.5 N and not more than 67 N measured at the lap portion of the seat belt and maintain the tension during the preload, lock the seat belt retractor, and tighten the tether belt strap to remove all slack. A rearward force of 135 N +/-15 N is applied to the center of the lower front crossmember of SFAD 2 to press the device against the seat back as the fore-aft position of the rearward extensions of the SFAD is adjusted to remove any slack or tension.

(c) Apply the force-

(1) Initially, in a forward direction in a vertical longitudinal plane and through the Point X on the test device; and

(2) Initially, along a line through the X point and at an angle of 10 +/-5 degrees above the horizontal. Apply a preload force of 500 N to measure the angle; and then

(3) Increase the pull force as linearly as practicable to a full force application of 15,000 N in not less than 24 seconds and not more than 30 seconds, and maintain at a 15,000 N level for 1 second.

S8.2 Apply the force specified in S6.3.2 as follows:

(a) Attach a belt strap, and tether hook, to the user-ready tether anchorage. The belt strap extends not less than 250 mm forward from the vertical transverse plane touching the rear top edge of the vehicle seat back, and passes over the top of the vehicle seat back as shown in Figure 19 of this standard;

(b) Apply the force at the end of the belt strap-

(1) Initially, in a forward direction in a vertical longitudinal plane that is parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centerline;

(2) Initially, along a horizontal line or along any line below or above that line that is at an angle to that line of not more than 20 degrees;

(3) So that the force is attained within 30 seconds, at any onset rate of not more than 135,000 N/s; and

(4) Maintained at a 5,300 N level for a minimum of 1 second.
