
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.225 Standard No. 225; Child restraint anchorage systems.
####### Tether anchorage phase-in requirements.

S13.

S13.1 Passenger cars manufactured on or after September 1, 1999 and before September 1, 2000 shall comply with S13.1.1 through S13.2. At anytime during the production year ending August 31, 2000, each manufacturer shall, upon request from the Office of Vehicle Safety Compliance, provide information identifying the passenger cars (by make, model and vehicle identification number) that have been certified as complying with the tether anchorage requirements of this standard. The manufacturer's designation of a passenger car as a certified vehicle is irrevocable.

S13.1.1 Subject to S13.2, for passenger cars manufactured on or after September 1, 1999 and before September 1, 2000, the number of vehicles complying with S4.2 shall be not less than 80 percent of:

(a) The manufacturer's average annual production of passenger cars manufactured on or after September 1, 1996 and before September 1, 1999; or

(b) The manufacturer's production of passenger cars manufactured on or after September 1, 1999 and before September 1, 2000.

S13.1.2 For the purpose of calculating average annual production of vehicles for each manufacturer and the number of vehicles manufactured by each manufacturer under S13.1.1, a vehicle produced by more than one manufacturer shall be attributed to a single manufacturer as provided in S13.1.2(a) through (c), subject to S13.2.

(a) A vehicle which is imported shall be attributed to the importer.

(b) A vehicle manufactured in the United States by more than one manufacturer, one of which also markets the vehicle, shall be attributed to the manufacturer which markets the vehicle.

(c) A vehicle produced by more than one manufacturer must be attributed to any one of the vehicle's manufacturers specified by an express written contract, reported to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration under 49 CFR part 585, between the manufacturer so specified and the manufacturer to which the vehicle would otherwise be attributed under S13.1.2(a) or (b).

S13.2 For the purposes of calculating average annual production of passenger cars for each manufacturer and the number of passenger cars manufactured by each manufacturer under S13.1, each passenger car that is excluded from the requirement to provide tether anchorages is not counted.

S13.3 Until May 1, 2001, vehicles manufactured by a final-stage manufacturer or alterer need not be equipped with the tether anchorages required by S4.3 of this standard. Vehicles manufactured by a final-stage manufacturer or alterer on or after May 1, 2001 must be equipped with the tether anchorages specified in S4.3.
