
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.225 Standard No. 225; Child restraint anchorage systems.
####### Anchorage dimensions and location.

S15.1.2

S15.1.2.1 The lower anchorages shall consist of two bars that-

(a) Are 6 mm +/-.1 mm in diameter;

(b) Are straight, horizontal and transverse;

(c) Are not less than 25 mm in length;

(d)-(e) [Reserved]

(f) Are permanently attached to the vehicle or vehicle seat such that they can only be removed by use of a tool, such as a screwdriver or wrench.

S15.1.2.2 (a) The anchorage bars are located at the vehicle seating position with the aid of and with respect to the CRF rearward extensions, with the CRF placed against or near the vehicle seat back. With the CRF attached to the anchorages and resting on the seat cushion, the bottom surface shall have attitude angles within the limits in the following table, angles measured relative to the vehicle horizontal, longitudinal and transverse reference planes.

(b) With adjustable seats adjusted as described in S15.1.2.2(c), each lower anchorage bar shall be located so that a vertical transverse plane intersecting the center of the bar is:

(1) Not more than 70 mm behind point Z of the CRF, measured parallel to the bottom surface of the CRF and to the center of the bar, with the CRF rear surface against the seat back; and

(2) Not less than 120 mm behind the vehicle seating reference point, measured horizontally and to the center of the bar. (To facilitate installation of the CRF in a vehicle seat, the CRF may be constructed of smaller separable parts and assembled in the vehicle seat. Alternatively, vehicle components may be removed to allow access.)

(c) Adjustable seats are adjusted as recommended by the vehicle manufacturer for use with child restraint systems.
