
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.225 Standard No. 225; Child restraint anchorage systems.
####### Provisions for simultaneous and sequential testing.

S15.3.3(a) If anchorages for more than one child restraint anchorage system are installed in the vehicle seat assembly and not directly into the vehicle structure, the forces described in S15.3 may, at the agency's option, be applied simultaneously to SFADs engaged with the anchorages. However, that force may not be applied simultaneously to SFADs engaged at any two adjacent seating positions whose midpoints are less than 400 mm apart, as measured in accordance with S15.3.3(a)(1) and (2) and Figure 20.

(1) The midpoint of the seating position lies in the vertical longitudinal plane that is equidistant from vertical longitudinal planes through the geometric center of each of the two lower anchorages at the seating position.

(2) Measure the distance between the vertical longitudinal planes passing through the midpoints of the adjacent seating positions, as measured along a line perpendicular to the planes.

(b) The lower anchorages of a particular child restraint anchorage system will not be tested if one or both of the anchorages have been previously tested under this standard.
