
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.226 Standard No. 226; Ejection Mitigation.
####### Performance and other requirements.

S4.2

S4.2.1 When the ejection propulsion mechanism propels the ejection impactor into the impact target locations of each side daylight opening of a vehicle according to the test procedures specified in S5 of this standard, the most outboard surface of the ejection headform must not displace more than 100 millimeters beyond the zero displacement plane.

S4.2.1.1 No vehicle shall use movable glazing as the sole means of meeting the displacement limit of S4.2.1.

S4.2.1.2 Vehicles with an ejection mitigation countermeasure that deploys in the event of a rollover must deploy the countermeasure for the side daylight opening being tested according to the procedure specified in S5 of this standard.

S4.2.1.3 If a side daylight opening contains no target locations, the impact test of S4.2.1 is not performed on that opening.

S4.2.2 Vehicles that have an ejection mitigation countermeasure that deploys in the event of a rollover must have a monitoring system with a readiness indicator. The indicator shall monitor its own readiness and must be clearly visible from the driver's designated seating position. The same readiness indicator required by S4.5.2 of FMVSS No. 208 may be used to meet the requirement. A list of the elements of the system being monitored by the indicator shall be included with the information furnished in accordance with S4.2.3.
