
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.226 Standard No. 226; Ejection Mitigation.
####### Seats not fixed in a forward facing direction.

(b)When the last row seat adjacent to the opening, in the case of a vehicle with fewer than 3 rows, or the 3rd row seat adjacent to the opening, in the case of a vehicle with 3 or more rows, is not fixed in the forward facing direction, the offset line may extend farther rearward than specified in S5.2.1.2(a) under the following conditions. With the seat in any non-forward facing orientation, the seat back set at an inclination position closest to the manufacturer's design seat back angle, and all other seat adjustments at any possible position of adjustment, determine the location of a vertical transverse vehicle plane located behind the portion of the seat rearmost in the vehicle, at the distance specified in 5.2.1.2(b)(1) and (2). The boundary of target locations extends to this vertical plane if it is farther rearward than the plane determined in S5.2.1.2(a).

(1) For a vehicle with fewer than 3 rows-1,400 mm behind the portion of the seat rearmost in the vehicle.

(2) For a vehicle with 3 or more rows-600 mm behind the portion of the seat rearmost in the vehicle, for a seat in the 3rd row.
