
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.226 Standard No. 226; Ejection Mitigation.
####### Breakage method.

S5.4.1.2

(a) Start with the inside surface of the window and forward-most, lowest mark made as specified in S5.4.1.1 of this standard. Use a center punch in this procedure. The punch tip has a 5 +/-2 mm diameter prior to coming to a point. The spring is adjusted to require 150 +/-25 N of force to activate the punch. Only once at each mark location, apply pressure to activate the spring in the center punch in a direction which is perpendicular to the tangent of the window surface at the point of contact, within +/-10 degrees. Apply the pressure only once at each mark location, even if the glazing does not break or no hole results.

(b) Use a 100 +/-10 mm x 100 +/-10 mm piece of plywood with a minimum thickness of 18 mm as a reaction surface on the opposite side of the glazing to prevent to the extent possible the window surface from deforming by more than 10 mm when pressure is being applied to the hole-punch.

(c) Continue the procedure with the center punch by moving rearward in the grid until the end of a row is reached. When the end of a row is reached, move to the forward-most mark on the next higher row and continue the procedure. Continue in this pattern until the procedure is conducted at each marked location on the inside surface of the glazing.

(d) Repeat the process on the outside surface of the window.

(e) If punching a hole causes the glazing to disintegrate, halt the breakage procedure and proceed with the headform impact test.
