
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.226 Standard No. 226; Ejection Mitigation.
####### Ejection impactor orientation.

S5.6

S5.6.1 If the targets for the side daylight opening being impacted were determined by the procedure specified in S5.2.2 through S5.2.5.1 only, the ejection impactor orientation is as follows. At the time of launch of the ejection impactor the x, y and z axes of the ejection headform must be aligned within +/-1 degree of the vehicle longitudinal, transverse and vertical axes, respectively.

S5.6.2 If the targets for the side daylight opening being impacted were determined by the procedure specified in S5.2.5.2, the ejection impactor orientation is as follows. At the time of launch the ejection impactor is rotated by 90 degrees about the ejection headform y axis, from the orientation specified in S5.6.1, resulting in the headform positive z axis pointing in the direction of the vehicle positive x axis.

S5.6.3 If the targets for the side daylight opening being impacted were determined by the procedure specified in S5.2.5.3, the ejection impactor orientation is as follows. At the time of launch the ejection impactor is rotated about the y axis of the ejection headform by rotating the headform positive z axis towards the vehicle positive x axis, in the increment determined to be necessary in S5.2.5.3 to fit the target within the side daylight opening.

S5.6.4 After any test, extend the ejection impactor to the zero plane and determine that x, y and z axes of the ejection headform remain aligned within +/-1 degree of its orientation at launch as specified in S5.6.1-5.6.3.
