
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.226 Standard No. 226; Ejection Mitigation.
####### Frictional characteristics.

S7.3

(a) Measure the dynamic coefficient of friction of the ejection impactor and any associated bearings and bearing housing in a test ready orientation. Repeat the measurement in three more orientations with the ejection impactor and any associated bearings and bearing housing rotated 90, 180 and 270 degrees about the headform y axis. Perform the measurement five consecutive times at each orientation.

(b) Measure the average force necessary to move the ejection impactor 200 mm rearward into the ejection propulsion mechanism at a rate of 50 (+/-13) mm per second, starting at a point 400 mm outboard of the theoretical point of impact with the countermeasure. Measure the force to an accuracy of +/-5 N. The measurement excludes the force measured over the first 25 mm of travel and is recorded at a minimum frequency of 100 Hz. During the test a 100 kg +/-0.5 kg mass is attached to the impactor with its center of gravity passing through the axis of motion of the impactor and no more than 5 mm rear of the posterior surface of the headform.

(c) Take the five force level averages made at each impactor orientation in S7.3(a) and average them. Take the maximum of the force average values and divide by 9.81 times the combined mass of the ejection impactor and mass added in S7.3(b). The resulting value must not exceed 0.25.
