
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.301 Standard No. 301; Fuel system integrity.
####### Vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2004.,+/-

(b)When the vehicle is impacted laterally on either side by a moving deformable barrier at 531.0 km/h with the appropriate 49 CFR part 572 test dummies specified in 571.214 at positions required for testing by S7.1.1, S7.2.1, or S7.2.2 of Standard 214, under the applicable conditions of S7 of this standard, fuel spillage shall not exceed the limits of S5.5 of this standard.

(c)(1) Notwithstanding S6.3(b) of this standard, vehicles having a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) may meet S6.3(a) instead of S6.3(b) of this standard until September 1, 2005.

(2) Notwithstanding S6.3(b) of this standard, vehicles having a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) manufactured on or after September 1, 2005 must meet the requirements of S6.3(b) of this standard unless they are excluded from S6.3(b) under the phase-in specified in this paragraph. Excluded vehicles must meet the requirements of S6.3(a) of this standard. For vehicles having a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) manufactured on or after September 1, 2005 and before September 1, 2006, the number of vehicles complying with S6.3(b) shall be not less than 90 percent of:

(i) The manufacturer's average annual production of vehicles with a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) manufactured on or after September 1, 2002 and before September 1, 2005; or

(ii) The manufacturer's production of vehicles with a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) on or after September 1, 2004 and before September 1, 2005.

(iii) Vehicles that have a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) and that are manufactured on or after September 1, 2006 must meet the requirements of S6.3(b) of this standard.
