
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.301 Standard No. 301; Fuel system integrity.
####### Vehicles produced by more than one manufacturer.

(3)For the purpose of calculating average annual production of vehicles for each manufacturer and the number of vehicles manufactured by each manufacturer under S6.3(c)(2)(i) and S6.3(c)(2)(ii) of this standard, a vehicle produced by more than one manufacturer shall be attributed to a single manufacturer as follows, subject to S6.3(c)(4).

(i) A vehicle which is imported shall be attributed to the importer.

(ii) A vehicle manufactured in the United States by more than one manufacturer, one of which also markets the vehicle, shall be attributed to the manufacturer that markets the vehicle.

(4) A vehicle produced by more than one manufacturer shall be attributed to any one of the vehicle's manufacturers specified by an express written contract, reported to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration under 49 CFR 568.6, between the manufacturer so specified and the manufacturer to which the vehicle would otherwise be attributed under S6.3(c)(3).

(d) Notwithstanding S6.3(b) of this standard, vehicles with a GVWR of 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) or less that are manufactured in two or more stages or altered (within the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) after having been previously certified in accordance with part 567 of this chapter may meet S6.3(a) of this standard until September 1, 2005. Vehicles with a GVWR of 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) or less that are manufactured in two or more stages or altered (within the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) after having been previously certified in accordance with part 567 of this chapter and that are manufactured on or after September 1, 2005 must meet the requirements of S6.3(b)

(e) Notwithstanding S6.3(b) and (c) of this standard, vehicles with a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) that are manufactured in two or more stages or altered (within the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) after having been previously certified in accordance with part 567 of this chapter may meet S6.3(a) of this standard until September 1, 2006. Vehicles with a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) that are manufactured in two or more stages or altered (within the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) after having been previously certified in accordance with part 567 of this chapter and that are manufactured on or after September 1, 2006 must meet the requirements of S6.3(b).
