
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.301 Standard No. 301; Fuel system integrity.
####### General test conditions.

S7.1The following conditions apply to all tests.

S7.1.1 The fuel tank is filled to any level from 90 to 95 percent of capacity with Stoddard solvent, having the physical and chemical properties of type 1 solvent, Table I of ASTM D484-71 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5).

S7.1.2 The fuel system other than the fuel tank is filled with Stoddard solvent to its normal operating level.

S7.1.3 In meeting the requirements of S6.1 through S6.3, if the vehicle has an electrically driven fuel pump that normally runs when the vehicle's electrical system is activated, it is operating at the time of the barrier crash.

S7.1.4 The parking brake is disengaged and the transmission is in neutral, except that in meeting the requirements of S6.5 the parking brake is set.

S7.1.5 Tires are inflated to manufacturer's specifications.

S7.1.6 The vehicle, including test devices and instrumentation, is loaded as follows:

(a) Except as specified in S7.1.1, a passenger car is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight plus its rated cargo and luggage capacity weight, secured in the luggage area, plus the necessary test dummies as specified in S6., restrained only by means that are installed in the vehicle for protection at its seating position.

(b) Except as specified in S7.1.1, a multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck, or bus with a GVWR of 4,536 kg or less is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight, plus the necessary test dummies as specified in S6, plus 136 kg or its rated cargo and luggage capacity weight, whichever is less, secured in the load carrying area and distributed as nearly as possible in proportion to its GAWR. For the purpose of this standard, unloaded vehicle weight does not include the weight of work-performing accessories. Each dummy is restrained only by means that are installed in the vehicle for protection at its seating position.

(c) Except as specified in S7.1.1, a school bus with a GVWR greater than 4,536 kg is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight, plus 54 kg of unsecured mass at each designated seating position.
