
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.301 Standard No. 301; Fuel system integrity.
####### Moving contoured barrier test conditions.

S7.5The following conditions apply to the moving contoured barrier crash test.

S7.5.1 The moving barrier, which is mounted on a carriage as specified in Figure 1, is of rigid construction, symmetrical about a vertical longitudinal plane. The contoured impact surface, which is 629 mm high and 1,981 mm wide, conforms to the dimensions shown in Figure 2, and is attached to the carriage as shown in that figure. The ground clearance to the lower edge of the impact surface is 133 mm +/-13 mm. The wheelbase is 3,048 mm +/-50 mm.

S7.5.2 The moving contoured barrier, including the impact surface, supporting structure, and carriage, has a mass of 1,814 kg +/-23 kg with the mass distributed so that 408 kg +/-11 kg is at each rear wheel and 499 kg +/-11 kg is at each front wheel. The center of gravity is located 1,372 mm +/-38 mm rearward of the front wheel axis, in the vertical longitudinal plane of symmetry, 401 mm +/-13 mm above the ground.

S7.5.3 The moving contoured barrier has a solid nonsteerable front axle and fixed rear axle attached directly to the frame rails with no spring or other type of suspension system on any wheel. (The moving barrier assembly is equipped with a braking device capable of stopping its motion.)

S7.5.4 The concrete surface upon which the vehicle is tested is level, rigid, and of uniform construction, with a skid number of 75 when measured in accordance with ASTM E274-65T (incorporated by reference, see ยง 571.5) at 64 km/h, omitting water delivery as specified in paragraph 7.1 of that method.

S7.5.5 The barrier assembly is released from the guidance mechanism immediately prior to impact with the vehicle.

S7.6 The moving barrier assemblies specified in S7.2, S7.3 and S7.5 are equipped with P205/75R15 pneumatic tires inflated to 200 kPa +/-21 kPa.
