
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.302 Standard No. 302; Flammability of interior materials.
####### Procedure.

S5.3

(a) Mount the specimen so that both sides and one end are held by the U-shaped frame, and one end is even with the open end of the frame. Where the maximum available width of a specimen is not more than 51 mm, so that the sides of the specimen cannot be held in the U-shaped frame, place the specimen in position on wire supports as described in S5.1.3, with one end held by the closed end of the U-shaped frame.

(b) Place the mounted specimen in a horizontal position, in the center of the cabinet.

(c) With the flame adjusted according to S5.1.4, position the bunsen burner and specimen so that the center of the burner tip is 19 mm below the center of the bottom edge of the open end of the specimen.

(d) Expose the specimen to the flame for 15 seconds.

(e) Begin timing (without reference to the period of application of the burner flame) when the flame from the burning specimen reaches a point 38 mm from the open end of the specimen.

(f) Measure the time that it takes the flame to progress to a point 38 mm from the clamped end of the specimen. If the flame does not reach the specified end point, time its progress to the point where flaming stops.

(g) Calculate the burn rate from the formula:
