
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.302 Standard No. 302; Flammability of interior materials.
####### Conditions.

S5.1

S5.1.1 The test is conducted in a metal cabinet for protecting the test specimens from drafts. The interior of the cabinet is 381 mm long, 203 mm deep, and 356 mm high. It has a glass observation window in the front, a closable opening to permit insertion of the specimen holder, and a hole to accommodate tubing for a gas burner. For ventilation, it has a 13 mm clearance space around the top of the cabinet, ten holes in the base of the cabinet, each hole 19 mm in diameter and legs to elevate the bottom of the cabinet by 10 mm, all located as shown in Figure 1.

S5.1.2 Prior to testing, each specimen is conditioned for 24 hours at a temperature of 21 &#xB0;C, and a relative humidity of 50 percent, and the test is conducted under those ambient conditions.

S5.1.3 The test specimen is inserted between two matching U-shaped frames of metal stock 25 mm wide and 10 mm high. The interior dimensions of the U-shaped frames are 51 mm wide by 330 mm long. A specimen that softens and bends at the flaming end so as to cause erratic burning is kept horizontal by supports consisting of thin, heat-resistant wires, spanning the width of the U-shaped frame under the specimen at 25 mm intervals. A device that may be used for supporting this type of material is an additional U-shaped frame, wider than the U-shaped frame containing the specimen, spanned by 10-mil wires of heat-resistant composition at 25 mm intervals, inserted over the bottom U-shaped frame.

S5.1.4 A bunsen burner with a tube of 10 mm inside diameter is used. The gas adjusting valve is set to provide a flame, with the tube vertical, of 38 mm in height. The air inlet to the burner is closed.

S5.1.5 The gas supplied to the burner has a flame temperature equivalent to that of natural gas.
