
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.302 Standard No. 302; Flammability of interior materials.
####### Preparation of specimens.

S5.2

S5.2.1 Each specimen of material to be tested shall be a rectangle 102 mm wide by 356 mm long, wherever possible. The thickness of the specimen is that of the single or composite material used in the vehicle, except that if the material's thickness exceeds 13 mm, the specimen is cut down to that thickness measured from the surface of the specimen closest to the occupant compartment air space. Where it is not possible to obtain a flat specimen because of surface curvature, the specimen is cut to not more than 13 mm in thickness at any point. The maximum available length or width of a specimen is used where either dimension is less than 356 mm or 102 mm, respectively, unless surrogate testing is required under S4.1.1.

S5.2.2 The specimen is produced by cutting the material in the direction that provides the most adverse test results. The specimen is oriented so that the surface closest to the occupant compartment air space faces downward on the test frame.

S5.2.3 Material with a napped or tufted surface is placed on a flat surface and combed twice against the nap with a comb having seven to eight smooth, rounded teeth per 25 mm.
