
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.303 Standard No. 303; Fuel system integrity of compressed natural gas vehicles.
####### Fuel system pressure drop: barrier crash.

S5.2

(a) For all vehicles, the pressure drop in the high pressure portion of the fuel system, expressed in kiloPascals (kPa), in any fixed or moving barrier crash from vehicle impact through the 60 minute period following cessation of motion shall not exceed:

(1) 1062 kPa (154 psi), or

(2) 895 (T/V); whichever is higher

(b) For bi-fuel or dual fuel CNG vehicles, the test requirement in S5.2(a) shall apply to the CNG fuel system, and the test requirement of Standard No. 301 shall apply to the other fuel system, if that standard is applicable.

S5.3 Each CNG vehicle shall be permanently labeled, near the vehicle refueling connection, with the information specified in S5.3.1 and S5.3.2 of this section. The information shall be visible to a person standing next to the vehicle during refueling, in English, and in letters and numbers that are not less than 4.76 mm (3/16 inch) high.

S5.3.1 The statement: "Service pressure ______________________________ kPa (____________ psig)."

S5.3.2 The statement "See instructions on fuel container for inspection and service life."

S5.4 When a motor vehicle is delivered to the first purchaser for purposes other than resale, the manufacturer shall provide the purchaser with a written statement of the information in S5.3.1 and S5.3.2 in the owner's manual, or, if there is no owner's manual, on a one-page document. The information shall be in English and in not less than 10 point type.
