
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.303 Standard No. 303; Fuel system integrity of compressed natural gas vehicles.
####### General test conditions.

S7.1The following conditions apply to all tests.

S7.1.1 Each fuel storage container is filled to 100 percent of service pressure with nitrogen, N. The gas pressure shall stabilize to ambient temperature before testing may be conducted.

S7.1.2 After each fuel storage container is filled as specified in S7.1.1, the fuel system other than each fuel storage container is filled with nitrogen, N, to normal operating pressures. All manual shutoff valves are to be in the open position.

S7.1.3 In meeting the requirements of S6.1 through S6.4, if the vehicle has an electrically driven fuel pump that normally runs when the vehicle's electrical system is activated, it is operating at the time of the barrier crash. If the vehicle has any high pressure electric shutoff valve that is normally open when the electrical system is activated, it is open at the time of the barrier crash. Furthermore, if any electric shutoff valve prevents sensing of system pressure by the pressure transducer when closed, it must be open for both the initial pressure measurement and the pressure measurement 60 minutes after the vehicle ceases motion from impact. Any valve shall be open for a period of one minute to equalize the system pressure.

S7.1.4 The parking brake is disengaged and the transmission is in neutral, except that in meeting the requirements of S6.4, the parking brake is set.

S7.1.5 Tires are inflated to manufacturer's specifications.

S7.1.6 The vehicle, including test devices and instrumentation, is loaded as follows:

(a) A passenger car, with its fuel system filled as specified in S7.1.1 and S7.1.2, is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight plus its rated cargo and luggage capacity weight, secured in the luggage area, plus the necessary test dummies as specified in S6, restrained only by means that are installed in the vehicle for protection at its seating position.

(b) A multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck, or bus with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less, whose fuel system is filled as specified in S7.1.1 and S7.1.2, is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight, plus the necessary test dummies as specified in S6, plus 136.1 kilograms (kg.) (300 pounds (lb.)), or its rated cargo and luggage capacity weight, whichever is less, secured to the vehicle and distributed so that the weight on each axle as measured at the tire-ground interface is in proportion to its GAWR. Each dummy shall be restrained only by means that are installed in the vehicle for protection at its seating position.

(c) A schoolbus with a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds, whose fuel system is filled as specified in S7.1.1 and S7.1.2, is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight, plus 54.4 kg. (120 lb.) of unsecured weight at each designated seating position.

S7.1.7 The ambient temperature is not to vary more than 5.6 &#xB0;C (10 &#xB0;F) during the course of the test.

S7.1.8 The pressure drop measurement specified in S5.2 is to be made using a location on the high pressure side of the fuel system in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer's recommendation.
