
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.304 Standard No. 304; Compressed natural gas fuel container integrity.
####### Container positioning.

S8.3.2

(a) Position the CNG fuel container in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of S8.3.2.

(b) Position the CNG fuel container so that its longitudinal axis is horizontal and its bottom is 100 mm (4 inches) above the fire source.

(c)(1) Position a CNG fuel container that is 1.65 meters (65 inches) in length or less and is fitted with one pressure relief device so that the center of the container is over the center of the fire source.

(2) Position a CNG fuel container that is greater than 1.65 meters (65 inches) in length and is fitted with one pressure relief device at one end of the container so that the center of the fire source is 0.825 meters (32.5 inches) from the other end of the container, measured horizontally along a line parallel to the longitudinal axis of the container.

(3) Position a CNG fuel container that is fitted with pressure relief devices at more than one location along its length so that the portion of container over the center of the fire source is the portion midway between the two pressure relief devices that are separated by the greatest distance, measured horizontally along a line parallel to the longitudinal axis of the container.

(4) Test a CNG fuel container that is greater than 1.65 meters (65 inches) in length, is protected by thermal insulation, and does not have pressure relief devices, twice at 100 percent of service pressure. In one test, position the center of the container over the center of the fire source. In another test, position one end of the container so that the fire source is centered 0.825 meters (32.5 inches) from one end of the container, measured horizontally along a line parallel to the longitudinal axis of the container.
