
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.305 Standard No. 305; Electric-powered vehicles: electrolyte spillage and electrical shock protection.
####### Vehicle conditions.

S7.2The switch or device that provides power from the electric energy storage/conversion system to the propulsion system is in the activated position or the ready-to-drive position.

S7.2.1 The parking brake is disengaged and the transmission, if any, is in the neutral position. In a test conducted under S6.3, the parking brake is set.

S7.2.2 Tires are inflated to the manufacturer's specifications.

S7.2.3 The vehicle, including test devices and instrumentation, is loaded as follows:

(a) A passenger car is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight plus its rated cargo and luggage capacity weight, secured in the luggage area, plus the necessary test dummies as specified in S6, restrained only by means that are installed in the vehicle for protection at its seating position.

(b) A multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck, or bus with a GVWR of 4536 kg or less is loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight plus the necessary dummies, as specified in S6, plus 136 kg or its rated cargo and luggage capacity weight, whichever is less. Each dummy is restrained only by means that are installed in the vehicle for protection at its seating position.
