
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.403 Standard No. 403; Platform lift systems for motor vehicles.
####### Wheelchair retention device

means a device designed to prevent wheelchairs from leaving the edge of the platform used for ground level loading and unloading during the range of passenger operation.

S5. [Reserved]

S6. Requirements.

(a) Each platform lift must comply with the requirements for private use lifts or public use lifts and with the requirements for all lifts.

(b) Each public use lift must

(1) Comply with the requirements for public use lifts and with the requirements for all lifts.

(2) Bear a label with the words "DOT-Public Use Lift" as certification of compliance with the requirements specified in paragraph S6(b)(1).

(c) Each private use lift must

(1) Comply with the requirements for private use lifts and with the requirements for all lifts.

(2) Bear a label with the words "DOT-Private Use Lift" as certification of compliance with the requirements specified in S6(c)(1).

(d) Platform lifts suitable for installation on buses, school buses, and MPVs other than motor homes with a GVWR greater than 4,536 kg (10,000 lb.), except motor homes, must be certified by the manufacturer as meeting the requirements for public use lifts. For platform lifts suitable for installation on all other vehicles, the manufacturer may select the option of certifying compliance with either the public use lift requirements or the private use lift requirements of this standard at the time it certifies the vehicle and may not thereafter select a different option for the vehicle.

(e) For all lifts, where a range of values is specified, the equipment must meet the requirements at all points within the range.

(f) The test procedures in S7 are used to determine compliance with all requirements, except S6.6, S6.7.5, S6.12 and S6.13.
