
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.403 Standard No. 403; Platform lift systems for motor vehicles.
####### Edge guards.

S6.4.6

S6.4.6.1 The platform lift must have edge guards that extend continuously along each side of the lift platform to within 75 mm (3 inches) of the edges of the platform that are traversed while entering and exiting the platform at both the ground and vehicle floor level loading positions. The edge guards must be parallel to the direction of wheelchair movement during loading and unloading. Alternatively, when tested in accordance with S7.7.4, all portions of the wheels of the wheelchair test device must remain above the platform surface and after the control is released to Neutral, at the end of each attempt to steer the test device off the platform, all wheels of the wheelchair test device must be in contact with the platform surface. The manufacturer shall select the option by the time it certifies the lift and may not thereafter select a different option for the lift.

S6.4.6.2 Edge guards that move with the platform must have vertical sides facing the platform surface and a minimum height of 38 mm (1.5 inches), measured vertically from the platform surface.

S6.4.6.3 Except whenever any part of the platform surface is below a horizontal plane 75 mm (3 inches) above the ground, edge guards must be deployed throughout the range of passenger operation.
