
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.403 Standard No. 403; Platform lift systems for motor vehicles.
####### Control panel switches.

S6.7

S6.7.1 The platform lift must meet the requirements of S6.7.2 through S6.7.8 and, when operated by means of the control panel switches specified in S6.7.2, must perform the lift operations specified in S7.9.

S6.7.2 The platform lift system must have control panel switches that perform not less than the following functions: (platform lifts that manually stow (fold) and deploy (unfold) are exempt from S6.7.2.2 and S6.7.2.5).

S6.7.2.1 Enables and disables the lift control panel switches. This function must be identified as "POWER" if located on the control. The POWER function must have two states: "ON" and "OFF". The "ON" state must allow platform lift operation. When the POWER function is in the "ON" state, an indicator light on the controls must illuminate. The "OFF" state must prevent lift operation and must turn off the indicator light. Verification with this requirement is made throughout the lift operations specified in S7.9.3 through S7.9.8.

S6.7.2.2 Moves the lift from a stowed position to an extended position or, to one of the two loading positions. This function must be identified as "DEPLOY" or "UNFOLD" on the control.

S6.7.2.3 Lowers the lift platform. This function must be identified as "Down" or "Lower" on the control.

S6.7.2.4 Raises the lift platform. This function must be identified as "Up" or "Raise" on the control.

S6.7.2.5 Moves the lift from a position within the range of passenger operation to a stowed position. This function must be identified as "Stow" or "Fold" on the control.

S6.7.3 Except for the Power function described in S6.7.2.1, the functions specified in S6.7.2 must activate in a momentary fashion, by one switch or by a combination of switches. Verification with this requirement is made throughout the lift operations specified in S7.9.3 through S7.9.8.

S6.7.4 Except for the POWER function described in S6.7.2.1, the control system specified in S6.7.2 must prevent the simultaneous performance of more than one function. If an initial function is actuated, then one or more other functions are actuated while the initial function remains actuated, the platform must either continue in the direction dictated by the initial function or stop. Verification of this requirement is made throughout the lift operations specified in S7.9.3 through S7.9.8.

S6.7.5 Any single-point failure in the control panel switches may not prevent the operation of any of the interlocks as specified in S6.10.
