
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 571 - FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
###### ยง 571.403 Standard No. 403; Platform lift systems for motor vehicles.
####### Private use lifts:

S7.7.3.2For private use lifts, perform the test in both possible test device orientations unless a required direction of wheelchair movement onto the platform is indicated in the operating instructions. If a required direction is indicated in the operating instructions, perform the test with the test device oriented as required by the operating instructions.

S7.7.3.3 Adjust the footrests of the test device to the shortest length. Place the test device on the platform with its plane of symmetry coincident with the lift reference plane.

S7.7.3.4 Position the platform surface 90 mm +/-10 mm (3.5 inches +/-0.4 inches) above the ground level position.

S7.7.3.5 Slowly move the test device in the forward direction until it contacts a wheelchair retention device. Activate the controller of the test device such that, if the test device were unloaded and unrestrained on a flat, level surface, it would achieve a maximum forward velocity of not less than 2.0 m/s (4.4 mph) and not more than 2.1 m/s (4.7 mph).

S7.7.3.6 Realign the test device on the platform so that its plane of symmetry is coincident with the lift reference plane. Slowly move the test device in the rearward direction until it contacts a wheelchair retention device. Activate the controller of the test device such that, if the test device were unloaded and unrestrained on a flat, level surface, it would achieve a maximum rearward velocity of not less than 1.75 m/s (3.9 mph) and not more than 1.85 m/s (4.1 mph).

S7.7.3.7 During the impacts specified in S7.7.3.5 and S7.7.3.6, maintain power to the drive motors until all test device motion has ceased except rotation of the drive wheels. Note the position of the test device after its motion has ceased following each impact to determine compliance with S6.4.7.2.

S7.7.4 Edge Guard Test. Determine compliance with S6.4.6 using the test device specified in S7.1.2 by performing the test procedure specified in S7.7.4.1 through S7.7.4.6. During the edge guard tests, remove the footrests from the wheelchair test device.

S7.7.4.1 Position the platform surface 90 mm +/-10 mm (3.5 in +/-0.4 in) above the ground level loading position.

S7.7.4.2 Place the test device on the platform surface with its plane of symmetry coincident with the lift reference plane within +/-10 mm (+/-0.4 in), its forward direction of travel inboard toward the vehicle, and its position on the platform as far rearward as the wheelchair retention device or outer barrier will allow it to be placed.

S7.7.4.3 Adjust the control of the test device to a setting that provides maximum acceleration and steer the test device from side-to-side and corner-to-corner of the lift platform, attempting to steer the test device off the platform. After each attempt, when the wheelchair test device stalls due to contact with a barrier, release the control to Neutral and realign the test device to the starting position. Repeat this sequence at any level that is more than 90 mm +/-10 mm (3.5 in +/-0.4 in) above the ground level loading position and more than 38 mm +/-10 mm (1.5 in +/-0.4 in) below the vehicle floor level loading position. Repeat this sequence at 38 mm +/-10 mm (1.5 in +/-0.4 in) below the vehicle floor level loading position.

S7.7.4.4 Next position the platform surface 38 mm +/-10 mm (1.5 in +/-0.4 in) below the vehicle floor level loading position.

S7.7.4.5 Reposition the test device on the platform surface with its plane of symmetry coincident with the lift reference plane within +/-10 mm (+/-0.4 in), its forward direction of travel outboard away from the vehicle, and its position on the platform as far rearward as the wheelchair inner roll-stop or vehicle body will allow it to be placed.

S7.7.4.6 Adjust the control of the test device to a setting that provides maximum acceleration and steer the test device from side-to-side and corner-to-corner of the lift platform, attempting to steer the test device off the platform. After each attempt, when the wheelchair test device stalls due to contact with a barrier, release the control to Neutral and realign the test device to the starting position. Repeat this sequence at any level that is more than 90 mm +/-10 mm (3.5 in +/-0.4 in) above the ground level loading position and more than 38 mm +/-10 mm (1.5 in +/-0.4 in) below the vehicle floor loading position. Repeat this sequence at 38 mm +/-10 mm (1.5 in +/-0.4 in) below the vehicle floor level loading position.
