
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart B - 50th Percentile Male
###### ยง 572.6 Head.

(a) The head consists of the assembly shown as number SA 150 M010 in Figure 1 and conforms to each of the drawings subtended by number SA 150 M010.

(b) When the head is dropped from a height of 10 inches in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the peak resultant accelerations at the location of the accelerometers mounted in the head form in accordance with ยง 572.11(b) shall be not less than 210g, and not more than 260g. The acceleration/time curve for the test shall be unimodal and shall lie at or above the 100g level for an interval not less than 0.9 milliseconds and not more than 1.5 milliseconds. The lateral acceleration vector shall not exceed 10g.

(c) Test procedure:

(1) Suspend the head as shown in Figure 2, so that the lowest point on the forehead is 0.5 inches below the lowest point on the dummy's nose when the midsagittal plane is vertical.

(2) Drop the head from the specified height by means that ensures instant release onto a rigidly supported flat horizontal steel plate, 2 inches thick and 2 feet square, which has a clean, dry surface and any microfinish of not less than 8 microinches (rms) and not more than 80 microinches (rms).

(3) Allow a time period of at least 2 hours between successive tests on the same head.
