
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart B - 50th Percentile Male
###### § 572.8 Thorax.

(a) The thorax consists of the assembly shown as number SA 150 M030 in Figure 1, and conforms to each of the drawings subtended by number SA 150 M030.

(b) The thorax contains enough unobstructed interior space behind the rib cage to permit the midpoint of the sternum to be depressed 2 inches without contact between the rib cage and other parts of the dummy or its instrumentation, except for instruments specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

(c) When impacted by a test probe conforming to § 572.11(a) at 14 fps and at 22 fps in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the thorax shall resist with forces measured by the test probe of not more than 1450 pounds and 2250 pounds, respectively, and shall deflect by amounts not greater than 1.1 inches and 1.7 inches, respectively. The internal hysteresis in each impact shall not be less than 50 percent and not more than 70 percent.

(d) Test procedure: (1) With the dummy seated without back support on a surface as specified in § 572.11(i) and in the orientation specified in § 572.11(i), adjust the dummy arms and legs until they are extended horizontally forward parallel to the midsagittal plane.

(2) Place the longitudinal center line of the test probe so that it is 17.7 +/-0.1 inches above the seating surface at impact.

(3) Align the test probe specified in § 572.11(a) so that at impact its longitudinal centerline coincides within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.

(4) Adjust the dummy so that the surface area on the thorax immediately adjacent to the projected longitudinal center line of the test probe is vertical. Limb support, as needed to achieve and maintain this orientation, may be provided by placement of a steel rod of any diameter not less than one-quarter of an inch and not more than three-eighths of an inch, with hemispherical ends, vertically under the limb at its projected geometric center.

(5) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that its longitudinal centerline falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane at the moment of impact.

(6) Guide the probe during impact so that it moves with no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.

(7) Measure the horizontal deflection of the sternum relative to the thoracic spine along the line established by the longitudinal centerline of the probe at the moment of impact, using a potentiometer mounted inside the sternum.

(8) Measure hysteresis by determining the ratio of the area between the loading and unloading portions of the force deflection curve to the area under the loading portion of the curve.
