
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart C - 3-Year-Old Child
###### ยง 572.15 General description.

(a) The dummy consists of the component assemblies specified in drawing SA 103C 001, which are described in their entirety by means of approximately 122 drawings and specifications and an Operation and Maintenance Manual, dated May 28, 1976. The drawings and specifications are grouped by component assemblies under the following thirteen headings:

(b) The drawings, specifications, and operation and maintenance manual referred to in this regulation that are not set forth in full are hereby incorporated in this part by reference. These materials are thereby made part of this regulation. The Director of the Federal Register has approved the materials incorporated by reference. For materials subject to change, only the specific version approved by the Director of the Federal Register and specified in the regulation are incorporated. A notice of any change will be published in theAs a convenience to the reader, the materials incorporated by reference are listed in the Finding Aid Table found at the end of this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations.

(c) The materials incorporated by reference are available for examination in Docket 78-09, Room 5109, Docket Section, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Copies may be obtained from Rowley-Scher Reprographics, Inc., 1216 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20005 ((202) 628-6667). The materials are also on file in the reference library of the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Washington, DC.

(d) Adjacent segments are joined in a manner such that throughout the range of motion and also under simulated crash-impact conditions there is no contact between metallic elements except for contacts that exist under static conditions.

(e) The structural properties of the dummy are such that the dummy conforms to this part in every respect both before and after being used in vehicle tests specified in Standard No. 213 of this chapter (ยง 571.213).

(f) The patterns of all cast and molded parts for reproduction of the molds needed in manufacturing of the dummies can be obtained on a loan basis by manufacturers of the testes dummies, or others if need is shown, from: Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590.
