
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart B - 50th Percentile Male
###### ยง 572.10 Limbs.

(a) The limbs consist of the assemblies shown as numbers SA 150 M070, SA 150 M071, SA 150 M080, and SA 150 M081 in Figure 1 and conform to the drawings subtended by these numbers.

(b) When each knee is impacted at 6.9 ft/sec. in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the maximum force on the femur shall be not more than 2500 pounds and not less than 1850 pounds, with a duration above 1000 pounds of not less than 1.7 milliseconds.

(c) Test procedure: (1) Seat the dummy without back support on a surface as specified in ยง 572.11(i) that is 17.3 +/-0.2 inches above a horizontal surface, oriented as specified in ยง 572.11(i), and with the hip joint adjustment at any setting between 1g and 2g. Place the dummy legs in planes parallel to its midsagittal plane (knee pivot centerline perpendicular to the midsagittal plane) and with the feet flat on the horizontal surface. Adjust the feet and lower legs until the lines between the midpoints of the knee pivots and the ankle pivots are at any angle not less than 2 degrees and not more than 4 degrees rear of the vertical, measured at the centerline of the knee pivots.

(2) Reposition the dummy if necessary so that the rearmost point of the lower legs at the level one inch below the seating surface remains at any distance not less than 5 inches and not more than 6 inches forward of the forward edge of the seat.

(3) Align the test probe specified in ยง 572.11(a) so that at impact its longitudinal centerline coincides within +/-2&#xB0; with the longitudinal centerline of the femur.

(4) Impact the knee with the test probe moving horizontally and parallel to the midsagittal plane at the specified velocity.

(5) Guide the probe during impact so that it moves with no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.
