
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart C - 3-Year-Old Child
###### ยง 572.17 Neck.
####### Test procedure.

(c)(1) Mount the head and neck on a rigid pendulum as specified in Figure 4, so that the head's midsagittal plane is vertical and coincides with the plane of motion of the pendulum's longitudinal centerline. Mount the neck directly to the pendulum as shown in Figure 15.

(2) Release the pendulum and allow it to fall freely from a height such that the velocity at impact is 17.00 +/-1.0 feet per second (fps), measured at the center of the accelerometer specified in figure 4.

(3) Decelerate the pendulum to a stop with an acceleration-time pulse described as follows:

(i) Establish 5g and 20g levels on the a-t curve.

(ii) Establish tat the point where the a-t curve first crosses the 5g level, tat the point where the rising a-t curve first crosses the 20g level, tat the point where the decaying a-t curve last crosses the 20g level, and tat the point where the decaying a-t curve first crosses the 5g level.

(iii) t-t, shall be not more than 4 milliseconds.

(iv) t-t, shall be not less than 18 and not more than 21 milliseconds.

(v) t-t, shall be not more than 5 milliseconds.

(vi) The average deceleration between tand tshall be not less than 20g and not more then 34g.

(4) Allow the neck to flex without contact of the head or neck with any object other than the pendulum arm.

(5) Allow a time period of at least 1 hour between successive tests of the head and neck.
