
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart B - 50th Percentile Male
###### § 572.11 Test conditions and instrumentation.

(a) The test probe used for thoracic and knee impact tests is a cylinder 6 inches in diameter that weighs 51.5 pounds including instrumentation. Its impacting end has a flat right face that is rigid and that has an edge radius of 0.5 inches.

(b) Accelerometers are mounted in the head on the horizontal transverse bulkhead shown in the drawings subreferenced under assembly No. SA 150 M010 in Figure 1, so that their sensitive axes intersect at a point in the midsagittal plane 0.5 inches above the horizontal bulkhead and 1.9 inches ventral of the vertical mating surface of the skull with the skull cover. One accelerometer is aligned with its sensitive axis perpendicular to the horizontal bulkhead in the midsagittal plane and with its seismic mass center at any distance up to 0.3 inches superior to the axial intersection point. Another accelerometer is aligned with its sensitive axis parallel to the horizontal bulkhead and perpendicular to the midsagittal plane, and with its seismic mass center at any distance up to 1.3 inches to the left of the axial intersection point (left side of dummy is the same as that of man). A third accelerometer is aligned with its sensitive axis parallel to the horizontal bulkhead in the midsagittal plane, and with its seismic mass center at any distance up to 1.3 inches dorsal to the axial intersection point.

(c) Accelerometers are mounted in the thorax by means of a bracket attached to the rear vertical surface (hereafter "attachment surface") of the thoracic spine so that their sensitive axes intersect at a point in the midsagittal plane 0.8 inches below the upper surface of the plate to which the neck mounting bracket is attached and 3.2 inches perpendicularly forward of the surface to which the accelerometer bracket is attached. One accelerometer has its sensitive axis oriented parallel to the attachment surface in the midsagittal plane, with its seismic mass center at any distance up to 1.3 inches inferior to the intersection of the sensitive axes specified above. Another accelerometer has its sensitive axis oriented parallel to the attachment surface and perpendicular to the midsagittal plane, with its seismic mass center at any distance up to 0.2 inches to the right of the intersection of the sensitive axes specified above. A third accelerometer has its sensitive axis oriented perpendicular to the attachment surface in the midsagittal plane, with its seismic mass center at any distance up to 1.3 inches dorsal to the intersection of the sensitive axes specified above. Accelerometers are oriented with the dummy in the position specified in § 572.11(i).

(d) A force-sensing device is mounted axially in each femur shaft so that the transverse centerline of the sensing element is 4.25 inches from the knee's center of rotation.

(e) The outputs of acceleration and force-sensing devices installed in the dummy and in the test apparatus specified by this part are recorded in individual data channels that conform to the requirements of SAE Recommended Practice J211a, December 1971, with channel classes as follows:

(1) Head acceleration-Class 1000.

(2) Pendulum acceleration-Class 60.

(3) Thorax acceleration-Class 180.

(4) Thorax compression-Class 180.

(5) Femur force-Class 600.

(f) The mountings for sensing devices have no resonance frequency within a range of 3 times the frequency range of the applicable channel class.

(g) Limb joints are set at 1g, barely restraining the weight of the limb when it is extended horizontally. The force required to move a limb segment does not exceed 2g throughout the range of limb motion.

(h) Performance tests are conducted at any temperature from 66 &#xB0;F to 78 &#xB0;F and at any relative humidity from 10 percent to 70 percent after exposure of the dummy to these conditions for a period of not less than 4 hours.

(i) For the performance tests specified in §§ 572.8, 572.9, and 572.10, the dummy is positioned in accordance with Figure 11 as follows:

(1) The dummy is placed on a flat, rigid, smooth, clean, dry, horizontal, steel test surface whose length and width dimensions are not less than 16 inches, so that the dummy's midsagittal plane is vertical and centered on the test surface and the rearmost points on its lower legs at the level of the test surface are at any distance not less than 5 inches and not more than 6 inches forward of the forward edge of the test surface.

(2) The pelvis is adjusted so that the upper surface of the lumbar-pelvic adapter is horizontal.

(3) The shoulder yokes are adjusted so that they are at the midpoint of their anterior-posterior travel with their upper surfaces horizontal.

(4) The dummy is adjusted so that the rear surfaces of the shoulders and buttocks are tangent to a transverse vertical plane.

(5) The upper legs are positioned symmetrically about the midsagittal plane so that the distance between the knee pivot bolt heads is 11.6 inches.

(6) The lower legs are positioned in planes parallel to the midsagittal plane so that the lines between the midpoint of the knee pivots and the ankle pivots are vertical.

(j) The dummy's dimensions, as specified in drawing number SA 150 M002, are determined as follows:

(1) With the dummy seated as specified in paragraph (i) of this section, the head is adjusted and secured so that its occiput is 1.7 inches forward of the transverse vertical plane with the vertical mating surface of the skull with its cover parallel to the transverse vertical plane.

(2) The thorax is adjusted and secured so that the rear surface of the chest accelerometer mounting cavity is inclined 3&#xB0; forward of vertical.

(3) Chest and waist circumference and chest depth measurements are taken with the dummy positioned in accordance with paragraphs (j) (1) and (2) of this section.

(4) The chest skin and abdominal sac are removed and all following measurements are made without them.

(5) Seated height is measured from the seating surface to the uppermost point on the head-skin surface.

(6) Shoulder pivot height is measured from the seating surface to the center of the arm elevation pivot.

(7) H-point locations are measured from the seating surface to the center of the holes in the pelvis flesh covering in line with the hip motion ball.

(8) Knee pivot distance from the backline is measured to the center of the knee pivot bolt head.

(9) Knee pivot distance from floor is measured from the center of the knee pivot bolt head to the bottom of the heel when the foot is horizontal and pointing forward.

(10) Shoulder width measurement is taken at arm elevation pivot center height with the centerlines between the elbow pivots and the shoulder pivots vertical.

(11) Hip width measurement is taken at widest point of pelvic section.

(k) Performance tests of the same component, segment, assembly, or fully assembled dummy are separated in time by a period of not less than 30 minutes unless otherwise noted.

(l) Surfaces of dummy components are not painted except as specified in this part or in drawings subtended by this part.
