
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart C - 3-Year-Old Child
###### ยง 572.17 Neck.

(a)(1) The neck for use with the head assembly described in ยง 572.16(a)(1) consists of the assembly designated as SA 103C 020 on drawing No. SA 103C 001, conforms to each item specified on drawing No. SA 103C 002(B), sheet 9.

(2) The neck for use with the head assembly described in ยง 572.16(a)(2) consists of the assembly designated as SA 103C 020 on drawing No. SA 103C 001, and conforms to each item specified on drawing No. SA 103C 002, sheet 9.

(b) When the head-neck assembly is tested in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the head shall rotate in reference to the pendulum's longitudinal centerline a total of 84 degrees +/-8 degrees about its center of gravity, rotating to the extent specified in the following table at each indicated point in time, measured from impact, with the chordal displacement measured at its center of gravity. The chordal displacement at time T is defined as the straight line distance between (1) the position relative to the pendulum arm of the head center of gravity at time zero, and (2) the position relative to the pendulum arm of the head center of gravity at time T as illustrated by figure 3. The peak resultant acceleration recorded at the location of the accelerometers mounted in the headform in accordance with ยง 572.21(b) shall not exceed 30g. The pendulum shall not reverse direction until the head's center of gravity returns to the original zero time position relative to the pendulum arm.
