
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart C - 3-Year-Old Child
###### ยง 572.16 Head.
####### Test procedure.

(c)(1) Seat the dummy on a seating surface having a back support as specified in ยง 572.21(h) and orient the dummy in accordance with ยง 572.21(h) and adjust the joints of the limbs at any setting between 1g and 2g, which just supports the limbs' weight when the limbs are extended horizontally forward.

(2) Adjust the test probe so that its longitudinal centerline is at the forehead at the point of orthogonal intersection of the head midsagittal plane and the transverse plane which is perpendicular to the "Z" axis of the head (longitudinal centerline of the skull anchor) and is located 0.6 +/-0.1 inches above the centers of the head center of gravity reference pins and coincides within 2 degrees with the line made by the intersection of horizontal and midsagittal planes passing through this point.

(3) Adjust the dummy so that the surface area on the forehead immediately adjacent to the projected longitudinal centerline of the test probe is vertical.

(4) Impact the head with the test probe so that at the moment of impact the probe's longitudinal centerline falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.

(5) Guide the probe during impact so that it moves with no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.

(6) Allow a time period of at least 20 minutes between successive tests of the head.
