
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart B - 50th Percentile Male
###### ยง 572.9 Lumbar spine, abdomen, and pelvis.

(a) The lumbar spine, abdomen, and pelvis consist of the assemblies designated as numbers SA 150 M050 and SA 150 M060 in Figure 1 and conform to the drawings subtended by these numbers.

(b) When subjected to continuously applied force in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the lumbar spine assembly shall flex by an amount that permits the rigid thoracic spine to rotate from its initial position in accordance with Figure 11 by the number of degrees shown below at each specified force level, and straighten upon removal of the force to within 12 degrees of its initial position in accordance with Figure 11.

(c) Test procedure: (1) Assemble the thorax, lumbar spine, pelvic, and upper leg assemblies (above the femur force transducers), ensuring that all component surfaces are clean, dry, and untreated unless otherwise specified, and attach them to the horizontal fixture shown in Figure 5 at the two link rod pins and with the mounting brackets for the lumbar test fixtures illustrated in Figures 6 to 9.

(2) Attach the rear mounting of the pelvis to the pelvic instrument cavity rear face at the four&#x2033; cap screw holes and attach the front mounting at the femur axial rotation joint. Tighten the mountings so that the pelvic-lumbar adapter is horizontal and adjust the femur friction plungers at each hip socket joint to 240 inch-pounds torque.

(3) Flex the thorax forward 50&#xB0; and then rearward as necessary to return it to its initial position in accordance with Figure 11 unsupported by external means.

(4) Apply a forward force perpendicular to the thorax instrument cavity rear face in the midsagittal plane 15 inches above the top surface of the pelvic-lumbar adapter. Apply the force at any torso deflection rate between .5 and 1.5 degrees per second up to 40&#xB0; of flexion but no further, continue to apply for 10 seconds that force necessary to maintain 40&#xB0; of flexion, and record the force with an instrument mounted to the thorax as shown in Figure 5. Release all force as rapidly as possible and measure the return angle 3 minutes after the release.

(d) When the abdomen is subjected to continuously applied force in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, the abdominal force-deflection curve shall be within the two curves plotted in Figure 10.

(e) Test procedure: (1) Place the assembled thorax, lumbar spine and pelvic assemblies in a supine position on a flat, rigid, smooth, dry, clean horizontal surface, ensuring that all component surfaces are clean, dry, and untreated unless otherwise specified.

(2) Place a rigid cylinder 6 inches in diameter and 18 inches long transversely across the abdomen, so that the cylinder is symmetrical about the midsagittal plane, with its longitudinal centerline horizontal and perpendicular to the midsagittal plane at a point 9.2 inches above the bottom line of the buttocks, measured with the dummy positioned in accordance with Figure 11.

(3) Establish the zero deflection point as the point at which a force of 10 pounds has been reached.

(4) Apply a vertical downward force through the cylinder at any rate between 0.25 and 0.35 inches per second.

(5) Guide the cylinder so that it moves without significant lateral or rotational movement.
