
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart C - 3-Year-Old Child
###### ยง 572.18 Thorax.
####### Test procedure.

(c)(1) With the dummy seated without back support on a surface as specified in ยง 572.21(h) and oriented as specified in ยง 572.21(h), adjust the dummy arms and legs until they are extended horizontally forward parallel to the midsagittal plane. The joints of the limbs are adjusted at any setting between 1g and 2g, which just supports the limbs' weight when the limbs are extended horizontally forward.

(2) Establish the impact point at the chest midsagittal plane so that it is 1.5 inches below the longitudinal centerline of the bolt that attaches the top of the ribcage sternum to the thoracic spine box.

(3) Adjust the dummy so that the tangent plane at the surface on the thorax immediately adjacent to the designated impact point is vertical and parallel to the face of the test probe.

(4) Place the longitudinal centerline of the test probe to coincide with the designated impact point and align the test probe so that at impact its longitudinal centerline coincides within 2 degrees with the line formed by intersection of the horizontal and midsagittal planes passing through the designated impact point.

(5) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that at the moment of impact the probe's longitudinal centerline falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy midsagittal plane.

(6) Guide the probe during impact so that it moves with no significant lateral, vertical or rotational movement.

(7) Allow a time period of at least 20 minutes between successive tests of the chest.
