
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart C - 3-Year-Old Child
###### ยง 572.21 Test conditions and instrumentation.
####### Head accelerometers.

(b)Install one of the triaxial accelerometers specified in ยง 572.21(a)(2) on a mounting block located on the horizontal transverse bulkhead as shown in the drawings subreferenced under assembly SA 103C 010 so that the seismic mass centers of each sensing element are positioned as specified in this paragraph, relative to the head accelerometer reference point located at the intersection of a line connecting the longitudinal centerlines of the transfer pins in the side of the dummy head with the midsagittal plane of the dummy head.

(1) The sensing elements of the Type C triaxial accelerometer are aligned as follows:

(i) Align one sensitive axis parallel to the vertical bulkhead and coincident with the midsagittal plane, with the seismic mass center located 0.2 inches dorsal to, and 0.1 inches inferior to the head accelerometer reference point.

(ii) Align the second sensitive axis with the horizontal plane, perpendicular to the midsagittal plane, with the seismic mass center located 0.1 inches inferior, 0.4 inches to the right of, and 0.9 inches dorsal to the head accelerometer reference point.

(iii) Align the third sensitive axis so that it is parallel to the midsagittal and horizontal planes, with the seismic mass center located 0.1 inches inferior to, 0.6 inches dorsal to, and 0.4 inches to the right of the head accelerometer reference point.

(iv) All seismic mass centers are positioned with +/-0.05 inches of the specified locations.

(2) The sensing elements of the Type A triaxial accelerometer are aligned as follows:

(i) Align one sensitive axis parallel to the vertical bulkhead and coincident with midsagittal planes, with the seismic mass center located from 0.2 to 0.47 inches dorsal to, from 0.01 inches inferior to 0.21 inches superior, and from 0.0 to 0.17 inches left of the head accelerometer reference point.

(ii) Align the second sensitive axis with the horizontal plane, perpendicular to the midsagittal plane, with the seismic mass center located 0.1 to 0.13 inches inferior to, 0.17 to 0.4 inches to the right of, and 0.47 to 0.9 inches dorsal of the head accelerometer reference point.

(iii) Align the third sensitive axis so that it is parallel to the midsagittal and horizontal planes, with the seismic mass center located 0.1 to 0.13 inches inferior to, 0.6 to 0.81 inches dorsal to, and from 0.17 inches left to 0.4 inches right of the head accelerometer reference point.
