
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Hybrid III Test Dummy
###### ยง 572.33 Neck.
####### Test procedure.

(c)(1) Soak the test material in a test environment at any temperature between 69 degrees F to 72 degrees F and at a relative humidity from 10% to 70% for a period of at least four hours prior to its application in a test.

(2) Torque the jamnut (78051-64) on the neck cable (78051-301, revision E) to 1.0 lbs-ft +/-.2 lbs-ft.

(3) Mount the head-neck assembly, defined in paragraph (b) of this section, on a rigid pendulum as shown in Figure 22 so that the head's midsagittal plane is vertical and coincides with the plane of motion of the pendulum's longitudinal axis.

(4) Release the pendulum and allow it to fall freely from a height such that the tangential velocity at the pendulum accelerometer centerline at the instance of contact with the honeycomb is 23.0 ft/sec +/-0.4 ft/sec. for flexion testing and 19.9 ft/sec. +/-0.4 ft/sec. for extension testing. The pendulum deceleration vs. time pulse for flexion testing shall conform to the characteristics shown in Table A and the decaying deceleration-time curve shall first cross 5between 34 ms and 42 ms. The pendulum deceleration vs. time pulse for extension testing shall conform to the characteristics shown in Table B and the decaying deceleration-time curve shall cross 5g between 38 ms and 46 ms.

(5) Allow the neck to flex without impact of the head or neck with any object during the test.
