
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Hybrid III Test Dummy
###### ยง 572.34 Thorax.
####### Test procedure.

(c)(1) Soak the test dummy in an environment with a relative humidity from 10% to 70% until the temperature of the ribs of the test dummy have stabilized at a temperature between 69 degrees F and 72 degrees F.

(2) Seat the dummy without back and arm supports on a surface as shown in Figure 23, and set the angle of the pelvic bone at 13 degrees plus or minus 2 degrees, using the procedure described in S11.4.3.2 of Standard No. 208 (ยง 571.208 of this chapter).

(3) Place the longitudinal centerline of the test probe so that it is .5 +/-.04 in. below the horizontal centerline of the No. 3 Rib (reference drawing number 79051-64, revision A-M) as shown in Figure 23.

(4) Align the test probe specified in ยง 572.36(a) so that at impact its longitudinal centerline coincides within .5 degree of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.

(5) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that the longitudinal centerline of the test probe falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy midsagittal plane at the moment of impact.

(6) Guide the probe during impact so that it moves with no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.

(7) Measure the horizontal deflection of the sternum relative to the thoracic spine along the line established by the longitudinal centerline of the probe at the moment of impact, using a potentiometer (ref. drawing 78051-317, revision A) mounted inside the sternum as shown in drawing 78051-89, revision I.

(8) Measure hysteresis by determining the ratio of the area between the loading and unloading portions of the force deflection curve to the area under the loading portion of the curve.
