
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Hybrid III Test Dummy
###### ยง 572.31 General description.

(a) The Hybrid III 50th percentile size dummy consists of components and assemblies specified in the Anthropomorphic Test Dummy drawing and specifications package which consists of the following six items:

(1) The Anthropomorphic Test Dummy Parts List, dated June 26, 1998, and containing 16 pages, and a Parts List Index, dated June 26, 1998, containing 8 pages.

(2) A listing of Hybrid III Dummy Transducers-reference document AGARD-AR-330, "Anthropomorphic Dummies for Crash and Escape System Testing", Chapter 6, Table 6-2, North Atlantic Treaty Organization, July, 1996.

(3) A General Motors Drawing Package identified by GM Drawing No. 78051-218, revision U, titled "Hybrid III Anthropomorphic Test Dummy," dated August 30, 1998, the following component assemblies, and subordinate drawings:

(4) Disassembly, Inspection, Assembly and Limbs Adjustment Procedures for the Hybrid III dummy, dated June 1998.

(5) Sign Convention for signal outputs-reference document SAE J1733 Information Report, titled "Sign Convention for Vehicle Crash Testing", dated 1994-12.

(6) Exterior dimensions of the Hybrid III dummy, dated July 15, 1986.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) Adjacent segments are joined in a manner such that throughout the range of motion and also under crash-impact conditions, there is no contact between metallic elements except for contacts that exist under static conditions.

(d) The weights, inertial properties and centers of gravity location of component assemblies shall conform to those listed in drawing 78051-338, revision S, titled "Segment Weights, Inertial Properties, Center of Gravity Location-Hybrid III," dated May 20, 1978 of drawing No. 78051-218.

(e) The structural properties of the dummy are such that the dummy conforms to this part in every respect both before and after being used in vehicle test specified in Standard No. 208 of this chapter (ยง 571.208).
