
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Side Impact Dummy 50th Percentile Male
###### § 572.41 General description.

(a) The dummy consists of component parts and component assemblies (SA-SID-M001, revision C, dated September 12, 1996, and SA-SID-M001A, revision B, dated September 12, 1996), which are described in approximately 250 drawings and specifications that are set forth in § 572.5(a) of this chapter with the following changes and additions which are described in approximately 85 drawings and specifications (incorporated by reference; see § 572.40):

(1) The head assembly consists of the assembly specified in subpart B (§ 572.6(a)) and conforms to each of the drawings subtended under drawing SA 150 M010 and drawings specified in SA-SID-M010, dated August 13, 1987.

(2) The neck assembly consists of the assembly specified in subpart B (§ 572.7(a)) and conforms to each of the drawings subtended under drawing SA 150 M020 and drawings shown in SA-SID-M010, dated August 13, 1987.

(3) The thorax assembly consists of the assembly shown as number SID-053 and conforms to each applicable drawing subtended by number SA-SID-M030 revision A, dated May 18, 1994.

(4) The lumbar spine consists of the assembly specified in subpart B (§ 572.9(a)) and conforms to drawing SA 150 M050 and drawings subtended by SA-SID-M050 revision B, dated September 12, 1996, including the addition of Lumbar Spacers-Lower SID-SM-001 and Lumbar Spacers-Upper SID-SM-002 (both dated May 12, 1994), and Washer 78051-243.

(5) The abdomen and pelvis consist of the assembly specified in subpart B of this part (§ 572.9) and conform to the drawings subtended by SA 150 M060, the drawings subtended by SA-SID-M060 revision A, dated May 18, 1994, and the drawings subtended by SA-SID-087 sheet 1 revision H, dated May 18, 1994, and SA-SID-087 sheet 2 revision H.

(6) The lower limbs consist of the assemblies specified in subpart B (§ 572.10) shown as SA 150 M080 and SA 150 M081 in Figure 1 and SA-SID-M080 and SA-SID-M081, both dated August 13, 1987, and conform to the drawings subtended by those numbers.

(b) The structural properties of the dummy are such that the dummy conforms to the requirements of this subpart in every respect both before and after being used in vehicle tests specified in Standard No 214 § 571.214 of this chapter.

(c) Disassembly, inspection, and assembly procedures; external dimensions and weight; and a dummy drawing list are set forth in the Side Impact Dummy (SID) User's Manual, dated May 1994 except for pages 7, 20 and 23, and appendix A (consisting of replacement pages 7, 20 and 23) dated January 20, 1998 (incorporated by reference; see § 572.40).
