
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Hybrid III Test Dummy
###### ยง 572.35 Limbs.
####### Hip joint-femur flexion.

(c)(1) When each femur is rotated in the flexion direction in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the femur torque at 30 deg. rotation from its initial horizontal orientation will not be more than 70 ft-lbf, and at 150 ft-lbf of torque will not be less than 40 deg. or more than 50 deg.

(2) Test procedure. (i) The test material consists of the assembled dummy, part No. 78051-218 (revision S) except that (1) leg assemblies (86-5001-001 and 002) are separated from the dummy by removing the 3/8-16 Socket Head Cap Screw (SHCS) (78051-99) but retaining the structural assembly of the upper legs (78051-43 and -44), (2) the abdominal insert (78051-52) is removed and (3) the instrument cover plate (78051-13) in the pelvic bone is replaced by a rigid pelvic bone stabilizer insert (Figure 25a) and firmly secured.

(ii) Seat the dummy on a rigid seat fixture (Figure 25) and firmly secure it to the seat back by bolting the stabilizer insert and the rigid support device (Figure 25b) to the seat back of the test fixture (Figures 26 and 27) while maintaining the pelvis (78051-58) "B" plane horizontal.

(iii) Insert a lever arm into the femur shaft opening of the upper leg structure assembly (78051-43/44) and firmly secure it using the 3/8-16 socket head cap screws.

(iv) Lift the lever arm parallel to the midsagittal plane at a rotation rate of 5 to 10 deg. per second while maintaining thein. shoulder bolt longitudinal centerline horizontal throughout the range of motion until the 150 ft-lbf torque level is reached. Record the torque and angle of rotation of the femur.

(v) Operating environment and temperature are the same as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
