
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Side Impact Dummy 50th Percentile Male
###### § 572.42 Thorax.

(a) When the thorax of a completely assembled dummy (SA-SID-M001A revision A, dated May 18, 1994, incorporated by reference; see § 572.40), appropriately assembled for right or left side impact, is impacted by a test probe conforming to § 572.44(a) at 14 fps in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the peak accelerations at the location of the accelerometers mounted on the thorax in accordance with § 572.44(b) shall be:

(1) For the accelerometer at the top of the Rib Bar on the struck side (LUR or RUR) not less than 37 g's and not more than 46 g's.

(2) For the accelerometer at the bottom of the Rib Bar on the struck side (LLR or RLR) not less than 37 g's and not more than 46 g's.

(3) For the lower thoracic spine (T12) not less than 15 g's and not more than 22 g's.

(b) Test Procedure. (1) Adjust the dummy legs as specified in § 572.44(f). Seat the dummy on a seating surface as specified in § 572.44(h) with the limbs extended horizontally forward.

(2) Place the longitudinal centerline of the test probe at the lateral side of the chest at the intersection of the centerlines of the third rib and the Rib Bar on the desired side of impact. This is the left side if the dummy is to be used on the driver's side of the vehicle and the right side if the dummy is to be used on the passenger side of the vehicle. The probe's centerline is perpendicular to thorax's midsagittal plane.

(3) Align the test probe so that its longitudinal centerline coincides with the line formed by the intersection of the transverse and frontal planes perpendicular to the chest's midsagittal plane passing through the designated impact point.

(4) Position the dummy as specified in § 572.44(h), so that the thorax's midsagittal plane and tangential plane to the Hinge Mounting Block (Drawing SID-034) are vertical.

(5) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that at the moment of impact at the designated impact point, the probe's longitudinal centerline falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line perpendicular to the dummy's midsagittal plane and passing through the designated impact point.

(6) Guide the probe during impact so that it moves with no significant lateral, vertical or rotational movement.

(7) Allow a time period of at least 20 minutes between successive tests of the chest.
