
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Hybrid III Test Dummy
###### ยง 572.35 Limbs.
####### Test procedure.

(2)(i) The test material consists of leg assemblies (86-5001-001, revision A) left and (-002, revision A) right with upper leg assemblies (78051-46) left and (78051-47) right removed. The load cell simulator (78051-319, revision A) is used to secure the knee cap assemblies (79051-16, revision B) as shown in Figure 24.

(ii) Soak the test material in a test environment at any temperature between 66 degrees F to 78 degrees F and at a relative humidity from 10% to 70% for a period of at least four hours prior to its application in a test.

(iii) Mount the test material with the leg assembly secured through the load cell simulator to a rigid surface as shown in Figure 24. No contact is permitted between the foot and any other exterior surfaces.

(iv) Place the longitudinal centerline of the test probe so that at contact with the knee it is collinear within 2 degrees with the longitudinal centerline of the femur load cell simulator.

(v) Guide the pendulum so that there is no significant lateral, vertical or rotational movement at time zero.

(vi) Impact the knee with the test probe so that the longitudinal centerline of the test probe at the instant of impact falls within .5 degrees of a horizontal line parallel to the femur load cell simulator at time zero.

(vii) Time zero is defined as the time of contact between the test probe and the knee.
