
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart I - 6-Year-Old Child
###### § 572.70 Incorporation by reference.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) The drawings and specifications referred to in §§ 572.71(a) and 572.71(b) are hereby incorporated in subpart I by reference. These materials are thereby made part of this regulation. The Director of the Federal Register approved the materials incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the materials may be inspected at NHTSA's Docket Section, 400 Seventh Street, SW., room 5109, Washington, DC, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) The incorporated material is available as follows:

(1) Drawing number SA 106 C001 sheets 1 through 18, and the drawings listed in the parts lists described on sheets 8 through 17, are available from Reprographic Technologies, 9000 Virginia Manor Rd., Beltsville, MD 20705, Telephone (301) 210-5600, Fax (301) 210-5607.

(2) A User's Manual entitled, "Six-Year-Old Size Child Test Dummy SA106C," October 28, 1991, is available from Reprographic Technologies at the address in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) SAE Recommended Practice J211, Instrumentation for Impact Test, June 1988, is available from the Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc., 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001.
