
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart I - 6-Year-Old Child
###### ยง 572.73 Neck assembly and test procedure.
####### Neck test procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the neck is as follows:

(1) Mount the head and neck assembly on a rigid pendulum as specified in ยง 572.21, Figure 15, so that the head's midsagittal plane is vertical and coincides with the plane of motion of the pendulum's longitudinal center line. Attach the neck directly to the pendulum as shown in ยง 572.21, Figure 15.

(2) Release the pendulum and allow it to fall freely from a height such that the velocity at impact is 17.00 +/-1.0 fps, measured at the center of the accelerometer specified in ยง 572.21, Figure 15.

(3) Decelerate the pendulum to a stop with an acceleration-time pulse described as follows:

(i) Establish 5g and 20g levels on the a-t curve.

(ii) Establish tat the point where the rising a-t curve first crosses the 5g level; tat the point where the rising a-t curve first crosses the 20g level; tat the point where the decaying a-t curve last crosses the 20g level; and tat the point where the decaying a-t curve first crosses the 5g level.

(iii) t-tshall not be more than 3 milliseconds.

(iv) t-tshall not be more than 22 milliseconds, and not less than 19 milliseconds.

(v) t-tshall not be more than 6 milliseconds.

(vi) The average deceleration between tand tshall not be more than 26g, or less than 22g.

(4) Allow the neck to flex without the head or neck contacting any object other than the pendulum arm.

(5) Allow at least 60 minutes between successive tests.
