
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart I - 6-Year-Old Child
###### ยง 572.74 Thorax assembly and test procedure.
####### Thorax test procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the thorax is as follows:

(1) Seat and orient the dummy on a seating surface without back support as specified in ยง 572.78(c), and adjust the joints of the limbs at any setting (between 1g and 2g) which just supports the limbs' weight when the limbs are extended horizontally and forward, parallel to the midsagittal plane.

(2) Establish the impact point at the chest midsagittal plane so that the impact point is 2.25 inches below the longitudinal center of the clavicle retainer screw, and adjust the dummy so that the plane that bisects the No. 3 rib into upper and lower halves is horizontal +/-1 degree.

(3) Place the longitudinal center line of the test probe so that it coincides with the designated impact point, and align the test probe so that at impact, the probe's longitudinal center line coincides (within 2 degrees) with the line formed at the intersection of the horizontal and midsagittal planes and passing through the designated impact point.

(4) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that at the moment of contact the probe's longitudinal center line falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.

(5) Guide the test probe during impact so that there is no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.

(6) Allow at least 30 minutes between successive tests.
