
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.23 Delegations to the Deputy Secretary.

The Deputy Secretary may exercise the authority of the Secretary, except where specifically limited by law, order, regulations, or instructions of the Secretary. In addition, the Deputy Secretary is delegated authority to:

(a) Exercise executive control over Departmental Budgeting and Program Evaluation.

(b) Serve as Chairman of the Departmental Executive Resources Board and its Executive Committee.

(c) Serve as the Chair of the Department's Safety Council.

(d) Serve as the Chair of the Department's Credit Council.

(e) Approve the establishment, modification, extension, or termination of:

(1) Department-wide (intra-department) committees affecting more than one program.

(2) OST-sponsored interagency committees.

(f) Approve the designation of:

(1) Departmental representatives and the chairman for interagency committees sponsored by the Office of the Secretary.

(2) Departmental members for international committees.

(g) Serve as the representative of the Secretary on the board of directors of the National Railroad Passenger Corporation and carry out the functions vested in the Secretary as a member of the board by 49 U.S.C. 24302.

(h) Approve the initiation of regulatory action, as defined in Executive Order 12866, by Secretarial offices and Operating Administrations.
