
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart M - Side Impact Hybrid Dummy 50th Percentile Male
###### § 572.111 General description.

(a) The dummy consists of component parts and component assemblies defined in drawing SA-SIDH3-M001, dated April 19, 1997, which are described in approximately 200 drawings and specifications that are set forth in §§ 572.32, 572.33 and 572.41(a)(3),(4),(5) and (6) of this part, and in the drawing of the Adaptor Bracket 96-SIDH3-001.

(1) The head assembly consists of the assembly specified in subpart E (§ 572.32) and conforms to each of the drawings subtended under drawing 78051-61X rev. C.

(2) The neck assembly consists of the assembly specified in subpart E (§ 572.33) and conforms to each of the drawings subtended under drawing 78051-90 rev. A.

(3) The thorax assembly consists of the assembly shown as number SID 053 and conforms to each applicable drawing subtended by number SA-SID M030 rev. A.

(4) The lumbar spine consists of the assembly specified in subpart B (§ 572.9(a)) and conforms to drawing SA 150 M050 and drawings subtended by SA-SID M050 rev. A.

(5) The abdomen and pelvis consist of the assembly and conform to the drawings subtended by SA 150 M060, the drawings subtended by SA 150 M060 rev. A and the drawings subtended by SA-SID-087 sheet 1 rev. H, and SA-SID-87 sheet 2 rev. H.

(6) The lower limbs consist of the assemblies specified in Subpart B (§ 572.10) shown as SA 150 M080 and SA 150 M081 in Figure 1 and SA-SID-M080 and SA-SID-M081 and conform to the drawings subtended by those numbers.

(7) The neck mounting adaptor bracket conforms to drawing 96-SIDH3-001.

(8) Upper and middle shoulder foams conform to drawing 96-SIDH3-006.

(b) The structural properties of the dummy are such that the dummy conforms to the specifications of this subpart in every respect before being used in vehicle tests specified in Standard 201.

(c) Disassembly, inspection and assembly procedures, external dimensions, weight and drawing list are set forth in the SIDH3 User's Manual, dated May 1997.

(d) Sign convention for signal outputs is given in the reference document SAE J1733 of 1994-12, "Sign Convention for Vehicle Crash Testing."
