
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart M - Side Impact Hybrid Dummy 50th Percentile Male
###### § 572.116 Instrumentation and test conditions.

(a) The test probe for lateral thoracic and pelvis impact tests are the same as those specified in § 572.44(a).

(b) Accelerometer mounting in the thorax is the same as specified in § 572.44(b).

(c) Accelerometer mounting in the pelvis is the same as specified in § 572.44(c).

(d) Head accelerometer mounting is the same as specified in § 572.36(c).

(e) Neck transducer mounting is the same as specified in § 572.36(d).

(f) Instrumentation and sensors used must conform to SAE Recommended Practice J211, March 1995, "Instrumentation for Impact Tests."

(g) The mountings for the spine, rib and pelvis accelerometers shall have no resonance frequency within a range of 3 times the frequency range of the applicable channel class.

(h) Limb joints of the test dummy shall be set at the force between 1 to 2 g's, which just supports the limb's weight when the limbs are extended horizontally forward. The force required to move a limb segment does not exceed 2 g's throughout the range of the limb motion.

(i) Performance tests must be conducted at a temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 degrees C. (69 to 72 degrees F.) and at a relative humidity between 10 percent and 70 percent after exposure of the dummy to those conditions for a period of at least four (4) hours.

(j) For the performance of tests specified in § 572.114 and § 572.115, the dummy is positioned the same as specified in § 572.44(h).
