
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart N - Six-year-old Child Test Dummy, Beta Version
###### ยง 572.124 Thorax assembly and test procedure.
####### Thorax (upper torso) assembly.

(a)The thorax consists of the part of the torso assembly shown in drawing 127-2000.

(b) When the anterior surface of the thorax of a completely assembled dummy (drawing 127-0000) is impacted by a test probe conforming to section 572.127(a) at 6.71 +/-0.12 m/s (22.0 +/-0.4 ft/s) according to the test procedure in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) The maximum sternum displacement (compression) relative to the spine, measured with chest deflection transducer (drawing SA572-S50), must be not less than 38.0 mm (1.50 in) and not more than 46.0 mm (1.80 in). Within this specified compression corridor, the peak force, measured by the probe in accordance with section 572.127, shall not be less than 1150 N (259 lbf) and not more than 1380 N (310 lbf). The peak force after 12.5 mm (0.5 in) of sternum displacement but before reaching the minimum required 38.0 mm (1.5 in) sternum displacement limit shall not exceed 1500 N (337.2 lbf).

(2) The internal hysteresis of the ribcage in each impact as determined by the plot of force vs. deflection in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be not less than 65 percent but not more than 85 percent.
