
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart N - Six-year-old Child Test Dummy, Beta Version
###### ยง 572.124 Thorax assembly and test procedure.
####### Test procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the thorax assembly is as follows:

(1) Soak the dummy in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6&#xB0; and 22.2 &#xB0;C (69&#xB0; and 72 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(2) Seat and orient the dummy, wearing tight-fitting underwear or equivalent consisting of a size 5 short-sleeved shirt having a weight less than 0.090 kg (0.2 lb) and an opening at the top just large enough to permit the passage of the head with a tight fit, and a size 4 pair of long pants having a weight of less than 0.090 kg (0.2 lb) with the legs cut off sufficiently above the knee to allow the knee target to be visible, on a seating surface without back support as shown in Figure N4, with the limbs extended horizontally and forward, parallel to the midsagittal plane, the midsagittal plane vertical within +/-1 degree and the ribs level in the anterior-posterior and lateral directions within +/-0.5 degrees.

(3) Establish the impact point at the chest midsagittal plane so that the impact point of the longitudinal centerline of the probe coincides with the midsagittal plane of the dummy within +/-2.5 mm (0.1 in) and is 12.7 +/-1.1 mm (0.5 +/-0.04 in) below the horizontal-peripheral centerline of the No. 3 rib and is within 0.5 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.

(4) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that at the moment of contact the probe's longitudinal center line falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.

(5) Guide the test probe during impact so that there is no significant lateral, vertical or rotational movement.

(6) No suspension hardware, suspension cables, or any other attachments to the probe, including the velocity vane, shall make contact with the dummy during the test.
