
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart N - Six-year-old Child Test Dummy, Beta Version
###### ยง 572.123 Neck assembly and test procedure.
####### Test procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the neck assembly is as follows:

(1) Soak the neck assembly in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C (69 and 72 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(2) Torque the jam nut (drawing 9000341) on the neck cable (drawing 127-1016) to 0.23 +/-0.02 N-m (2.0 +/-0.2 in-lbs).

(3) Mount the head-neck assembly, defined in paragraph (b) of this section, on the pendulum so the midsagittal plane of the head is vertical and coincides with the plane of motion of the pendulum as shown in Figure N2 for flexion tests and Figure N3 for extension tests.

(4) Release the pendulum and allow it to fall freely from a height to achieve an impact velocity of 4.95 +/-0.12 m/s (16.2 +/-0.4 ft/s) for flexion tests and 4.3 +/-0.12 m/s (14.10 +/-0.40 ft/s) for extension tests, measured by an accelerometer mounted on the pendulum as shown in Figure 22 of 49 CFR 572 at the instant of contact with the honey comb.

(i) Time-zero is defined as the time of initial contact between the pendulum striker plate and the honeycomb material. All data channels should be at the zero level at this time.

(ii) Stop the pendulum from the initial velocity with an acceleration vs. time pulse which meets the velocity change as specified below. Integrate the pendulum acceleration data channel to obtain the velocity vs. time curve:
