
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart N - Six-year-old Child Test Dummy, Beta Version
###### ยง 572.122 Head assembly and test procedure.
####### Head test procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the head is as follows:

(1) Soak the head assembly in a controlled environment at any temperature between 18.9 and 25.6 &#xB0;C (66 and 78 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity from 10 to 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(2) Prior to the test, clean the impact surface of the skin and the impact plate surface with isopropyl alcohol, trichloroethane, or an equivalent. The skin of the head must be clean and dry for testing.

(3) Suspend the head assembly as shown in Figure N1. The lowest point on the forehead must be 376.0 +/-1.0 mm (14.8 +/-0.04 in) from the impact surface and the head must be oriented to an incline of 62 +/-1 deg. between the "D" plane as shown in Figure N1 and the plane of the impact surface. The 1.57 mm (0.062 in) diameter holes located on either side of the dummy's head shall be used to ensure that the head is level with respect to the impact surface.

(4) Drop the head assembly from the specified height by means that ensure a smooth, instant release onto a rigidly supported flat horizontal steel plate which is 50.8 mm (2 in) thick and 610 mm (24 in) square. The impact surface shall be clean, dry and have a micro finish of not less than 203.2. x 10mm (8 micro inches) (RMS) and not more than 2032.0 x 10mm (80 micro inches) (RMS).

(5) Allow at least 2 hours between successive tests on the same head.
