
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart N - Six-year-old Child Test Dummy, Beta Version
###### ยง 572.127 Test conditions and instrumentation.

(a) The test probe for thoracic impacts, except for attachments, shall be of rigid metal or metal alloy construction and concentric about its longitudinal axis. Any attachments to the impactor, such as suspension hardware, velocity vanes, etc., must meet the requirements of ยง 572.124(c)(6). The impactor shall have a mass of 2.86 +/-0.02 kg (6.3 +/-0.05 lb) and a minimum mass moment of inertia of 160 kg-c(0.141 lb-in-sec) in yaw and pitch about the CG of the probe. One third of the weight of suspension cables and any attachments to the impact probe must be included in the calculation of mass, and such components may not exceed five percent of the total weight of the probe. The impacting end of the probe, has a flat, continuous, and non-deformable 101.6 +/-0.25 mm (4.00 +/-0.01 in) diameter face with an edge radius of 7.6/12.7 mm (0.3/0.5 in). The impactor shall have a 101-103 mm (4.0-4.1 in) diameter cylindrical surface extending for a minimum of 12.5 mm (0.5 in) to the rear from the impact face. The probe's end opposite to the impact face has provisions for mounting an accelerometer with its sensitive axis collinear with the longitudinal axis of the probe. The impact probe shall have a free air resonant frequency of not less than 1000 Hz limited to the direction of the longitudinal axis of the impactor.

(b) The test probe for knee impacts, except for attachments, shall be of rigid metal or alloy construction and concentric about its longitudinal axis. Any attachments to the impactor, such as suspension hardware, velocity vanes, etc., must meet the requirements of ยง 572.126(c)(6). The impactor shall have a mass of 0.82 +/-0.02 kg (1.8 +/-0.05 lb) and a minimum mass moment of inertia of 34 kg-cm2 (0.03 lb-in-sec2) in yaw and pitch about the CG of the probe. One third of the weight of suspension cables and any attachments to the impact probe must be included in the calculation of mass, and such components may not exceed five percent of the total weight of the probe. The impacting end of the probe, has a flat, continuous, and non-deformable 76.2 +/-0.2 mm (3.00 +/-0.01 in) diameter face with an edge radius of 7.6/12.7 mm (0.3/0.5 in). The impactor shall have a 76-77 mm (3.0-3.1 in) diameter cylindrical surface extending for a minimum of 12.5 mm (0.5 in) to the rear from the impact face. The probe's end opposite to the impact face has provisions for mounting an accelerometer with its sensitive axis collinear with the longitudinal axis of the probe. The impact probe shall have a free air resonant frequency of not less than 1000 Hz limited to the direction of the longitudinal axis of the impactor.

(c) Head accelerometers shall have dimensions, response characteristics, and sensitive mass locations specified in drawing SA572-S4 and be mounted in the head as shown in drawing 127-0000 sheet 3.
