
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart O - Hybrid III 5th Percentile Female Test Dummy, Alpha Version
###### ยง 572.133 Neck assembly and test procedure.
####### Test Procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the neck assembly is as follows:

(1) Soak the neck assembly in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C (69 and 72 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(2) Torque the jam nut (drawing 9000018) on the neck cable (drawing 880105-206) to 1.4 +/-0.2 N-m (12.0 +/-2.0 in-lb).

(3) Mount the head-neck assembly, defined in subsection (b) of this section, on the pendulum described in Figure 22 of 49 CFR 572 so that the midsagittal plane of the head is vertical and coincides with the plane of motion of the pendulum as shown in Figure O1 for flexion tests and Figure O2 for extension tests.

(4)(i) Release the pendulum and allow it to fall freely from a height to achieve an impact velocity of 7.01 +/-0.12 m/s (23.0 +/-0.4 ft/s) for flexion tests and 6.07 +/-0.12 m/s (19.9 +/-0.40 ft/s) for extension tests, measured by an accelerometer mounted on the pendulum as shown in Figure 22 of 49 CFR 572 at the instant of contact with the honey comb.

(ii) Stop the pendulum from the initial velocity with an acceleration vs. time pulse which meets the velocity change as specified below. Integrate the pendulum acceleration data channel to obtain the velocity vs. time curve:
