
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart P - 3-year-Old Child Crash Test Dummy, Alpha Version
###### ยง 572.143 Neck-headform assembly and test procedure.
####### Test procedure.

(c)(1) Soak the neck assembly in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C (69 and 72 F) and a relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(2) Torque the jam nut (drawing 9001336) on the neck cable (drawing 210-2040) between 0.2 N-m and 0.3 N-m.

(3) Mount the neck-headform assembly, defined in paragraph (a) of this section, on the pendulum so the midsagittal plane of the headform is vertical and coincides with the plane of motion of the pendulum as shown in Figure P2 of this subpart for flexion and Figure P3 of this subpart for extension tests.

(4) Release the pendulum and allow it to fall freely to achieve an impact velocity of 5.50 +/-0.10 m/s (18.05 + 0.40 ft/s) for flexion and 3.65 +/-0.1 m/s (11.98 +/-0.40 ft/s) for extension tests, measured by an accelerometer mounted on the pendulum as shown in Figure 22 of this part 572 at time zero.

(i) The test shall be conducted without inducing any torsion twisting of the neck.

(ii) Stop the pendulum from the initial velocity with an acceleration vs. time pulse which meets the velocity change as specified in Table B of this section. Integrate the pendulum acceleration data channel to obtain the velocity vs. time curve as indicated in Table B of this section.

(iii) Time-zero is defined as the time of initial contact between the pendulum striker plate and the honeycomb material. The pendulum data channel shall be zero at this time.
