
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart P - 3-year-Old Child Crash Test Dummy, Alpha Version
###### § 572.143 Neck-headform assembly and test procedure.

(a) The neck and headform assembly (refer to §§ 572.140(a)(1)(ii) and 572.140(a)(1)(iii)) for the purposes of this test, as shown in Figures P2 and P3 of this subpart, consists of the neck molded assembly (drawing 210-2015), neck cable (drawing 210-2040), nylon shoulder bushing (drawing 9001373), upper mount plate insert (drawing 910420-048), bib simulator (drawing TE-208-050), urethane washer (drawing 210-2050), neck mounting plate (drawing TE-250-021), two jam nuts (drawing 9001336), load-moment transducer (drawing SA 572-S19), and headform (drawing TE-208-000).

(b) When the neck and headform assembly, as defined in § 572.143(a), is tested according to the test procedure in paragraph (c) of this section, it shall have the following characteristics:

(1) Flexion.

(i) Plane D, referenced in Figure P2 of this subpart, shall rotate in the direction of preimpact flight with respect to the pendulum's longitudinal centerline between 70 degrees and 82 degrees. Within this specified rotation corridor, the peak moment about the occipital condyle may not be less than 42 N-m and not more than 53 N-m.

(ii) The positive moment shall decay for the first time to 10 N-m between 60 ms and 80 ms after time zero.

(iii) The moment and rotation data channels are defined to be zero when the longitudinal centerline of the neck and pendulum are parallel.

(2) Extension.

(i) Plane D referenced in Figure P3 of this subpart shall rotate in the direction of preimpact flight with respect to the pendulum's longitudinal centerline between 83 degrees and 93 degrees. Within this specified rotation corridor, the peak moment about the occipital condyle may be not more than -43.7 N-m and not less than -53.3 N-m.

(ii) The negative moment shall decay for the first time to -10 N-m between 60 and 80 ms after time zero.

(iii) The moment and rotation data channels are defined to be zero when the longitudinal centerline of the neck and pendulum are parallel.
