
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart P - 3-year-Old Child Crash Test Dummy, Alpha Version
###### ยง 572.144 Thorax assembly and test procedure.
####### Thorax (upper torso) assembly (refer to ยง 572.140(a)(1)(iv)).

(a)The thorax consists of the upper part of the torso assembly shown in drawing 210-3000.

(b) When the anterior surface of the thorax of a completely assembled dummy (drawing 210-0000) is impacted by a test probe conforming to ยง 572.146(a) at 6.0 +/-0.1 m/s (19.7 +/-0.3 ft/s) according to the test procedure in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Maximum sternum displacement (compression) relative to the spine, measured with the chest deflection transducer (SA-572-S50), must not be less than 32mm (1.3 in) and not more than 38mm (1.5 in). Within this specified compression corridor, the peak force, measured by the probe-mounted accelerometer as defined in ยง 572.146(a) and calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, shall be not less than 680 N and not more than 810 N. The peak force after 12.5 mm of sternum compression but before reaching the minimum required 32.0 mm sternum compression shall not exceed 910 N.

(2) The internal hysteresis of the ribcage in each impact, as determined from the force vs. deflection curve, shall be not less than 65 percent and not more than 85 percent. The hysteresis shall be calculated by determining the ratio of the area between the loading and unloading portions of the force deflection curve to the area under the loading portion of the curve.

(3) The force shall be calculated by the product of the impactor mass and its deceleration.
