
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart P - 3-year-Old Child Crash Test Dummy, Alpha Version
###### ยง 572.144 Thorax assembly and test procedure.
####### Test procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the thorax assembly is as follows:

(1) The test dummy is clothed in cotton-polyester-based tight-fitting shirt with long sleeves and ankle-length pants whose combined weight is not more than 0.25 kg (0.55 lbs).

(2) Soak the dummy in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C (69 and 72 &#xB0;F) and at any relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(3) Seat and orient the dummy on a seating surface without back support as shown in Figure P4, with the lower limbs extended horizontally and forward, the upper arms parallel to the torso and the lower arms extended horizontally and forward, parallel to the midsagittal plane, the midsagittal plane being vertical within +/-1 degree and the ribs level in the anterior-posterior and lateral directions within +/-0.5 degrees.

(4) Establish the impact point at the chest midsagittal plane so that the impact point of the longitudinal centerline of the probe coincides with the dummy's mid-sagittal plane and is centered on the center of No. 2 rib within +/-2.5 mm (0.1 in.) and 0.5 degrees of a horizontal plane.

(5) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that at the moment of contact the probe's longitudinal center line is within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.

(6) Guide the test probe during impact so that there is no significant lateral, vertical or rotational movement.

(7) No suspension hardware, suspension cables, or any other attachments to the probe, including the velocity vane, shall make contact with the dummy during the test.
