
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart R - CRABI 12-Month-Old Infant, Alpha Version
###### ยง 572.152 Head assembly and test procedure.
####### Head test procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the head is as follows:

(1) Soak the head assembly in a controlled environment at any temperature between 18.9 and 25.6 &#xB0;C (66 and 78 &#xB0;F) and at any relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test. These temperature and humidity levels shall be maintained throughout the entire testing period specified in this section.

(2) Before the test, clean the impact surface of the head skin and the steel impact plate surface with isopropyl alcohol, trichlorethane, or an equivalent. Both impact surfaces shall be clean and dry for testing.

(3)(i) For a frontal impact test, suspend the head assembly with its midsagittal plane in vertical orientation as shown in Figure R1 of this subpart. The lowest point on the forehead is 376.0 +/-1.0 mm (14.8 +/-0.04 in) from the impact surface. The 3.30 mm (0.13 in) diameter holes located on either side of the dummy's head are used to ensure that the head is level with respect to the impact surface. The angle between the lower surface plane of the neck transducer mass simulator (drawing 910420-003) and the plane of the impact surface is 45 +/-1 degrees.

(ii) For a rear impact test, suspend the head assembly with its midsagittal plane in vertical orientation as shown in Figure R2 of this subpart. The lowest point on the back of the head is 376.0 +/-1.0 mm (14.8 +/-0.04 in) from the impact surface. The 3.30 mm (0.13 in) diameter holes located on either side of the dummy's head are used to ensure that the head is level with respect to the impact surface. The angle between the lower surface plane of the neck transducer structural replacement (drawing 910420-003) and the impact surface is 90 +/-1 degrees.

(4) Drop the head assembly from the specified height by a means that ensures a smooth, instant release onto a rigidly supported flat horizontal steel plate which is 50.8 mm (2 in) thick and 610 mm (24 in) square. The impact surface shall be clean, dry and have a micro finish of not less than 203.2 x 10mm (8 micro inches) (RMS) and not more than 2032.0 x 10mm (80 micro inches) (RMS).

(5) Allow at least 2 hours between successive tests of the head assembly at the same impact point. For head impacts on the opposite side of the head, the 30-minute waiting period specified in ยง 572.155(m) does not apply.
