
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart R - CRABI 12-Month-Old Infant, Alpha Version
###### ยง 572.153 Neck-headform assembly and test procedure.
####### Test procedure.

(c)(1) Soak the neck assembly in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C (69 and 72 &#xB0;F) and at any relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test. These temperature and humidity levels shall be maintained throughout the testing period specified in this section.

(2) Torque the jam nut (drawing 9001336) on the neck cable (drawing ATD-6206) to 0.2 to 0.3 Nm (2-3 in-lbf).

(3) Mount the neck-headform assembly, defined in paragraph (b) of this section, on the pendulum so the midsagittal plane of the headform is vertical and coincides with the plane of motion of the pendulum as shown in Figure R3 for flexion and Figure R4 for extension tests.

(i) The moment and rotation data channels are defined to be zero when the longitudinal centerline of the neck and pendulum are parallel.

(ii) The test shall be conducted without inducing any torsion of the neck.

(4) Release the pendulum and allow it to fall freely to achieve an impact velocity of 5.2 +/-0.1 m/s (17.1 +/-0.3 ft/s) for flexion and 2.5 +/-0.1 m/s (8.2 +/-0.3 ft/s) for extension measured at the center of the pendulum accelerometer at the instant of contact with the honeycomb.

(i) Time-zero is defined as the time of initial contact between the pendulum striker plate and the honeycomb material. The pendulum data channel shall be defined to be zero at this time.

(ii) Stop the pendulum from the initial velocity with an acceleration vs. time pulse which meets the velocity change as specified in the following table. Integrate the pendulum acceleration data channel to obtain the velocity vs. time curve as indicated in Table B:
