
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart R - CRABI 12-Month-Old Infant, Alpha Version
###### § 572.155 Test conditions and instrumentation.

(a) The test probe for thoracic impacts, except for attachments, shall be of rigid metallic construction and concentric about its longitudinal axis. Any attachments to the impactor, such as suspension hardware, impact vanes, etc., must meet the requirements of § 572.154(c)(7). The impactor shall have a mass of 2.86 +/-0.02 kg (6.3 +/-0.05 lbs) and a minimum mass moment of inertia of 164 kg-cm(0.145 lb-in-sec) in yaw and pitch about the CG of the probe. One-third of the weight of suspension cables and any attachments to the impact probe must be included in the calculation of mass, and such components may not exceed five percent of the total weight of the test probe. The impacting end of the probe, perpendicular to and concentric with the longitudinal axis of the probe, has a flat, continuous, and non-deformable 101.6 +/-0.25 mm (4.00 +/-0.01 in) diameter face with an edge radius of 7.6/12.7 mm (0.3/0.5 in). The impactor shall have a 101-103 mm (4-4.1 in) diameter cylindrical surface extending for a minimum of 12.5 mm (0.5 in) to the rear from the impact face. The probe's end opposite to the impact face has provisions for mounting an accelerometer with its sensitive axis collinear with the longitudinal axis of the probe. The impact probe shall have a free air resonant frequency of not less than 1000 Hz measured in line with the longitudinal axis of the impactor, using the test method shown in the Procedures for Assembly, Disassembly and Inspection (PADI) document referenced in § 572.151.

(b) Head accelerometers shall have the dimensions, response characteristics, and sensitive mass locations specified in drawing SA572-S4 and be mounted in the head as shown in drawing 921022-000.

(c) The neck force-moment transducer shall have the dimensions, response characteristics, and sensitive axis locations specified in drawing SA572-S23 and shall be mounted for testing as shown in drawing 921022-000 and in figures R3 and R4 of this subpart.

(d) The shoulder force transducers shall have the dimensions and response characteristics specified in drawing SA572-S25 and are allowed to be mounted as optional instrumentation in place of part No. 921022-022 in the torso assembly as shown in drawing 921022-000.

(e) The thorax accelerometers shall have the dimensions, response characteristics, and sensitive mass locations specified in drawing SA572-S4 and be mounted in the torso assembly in triaxial configuration as shown in drawing 921022-000.

(f) The lumbar spine and lower neck force/moment transducer shall have the dimensions and response characteristics specified in drawing SA572-S23 and are allowed to be mounted as optional instrumentation in the torso assembly in place of part No. 910420-003 as shown in drawing 921022-000.

(g) The pelvis accelerometers shall have the dimensions, response characteristics, and sensitive mass locations specified in drawing SA572-S4 and are allowed to be mounted as optional instrumentation in the pelvis in triaxial configuration as shown in drawing 921022-000.

(h) The pubic force transducer shall have the dimensions and response characteristics specified in drawing SA572-S24 and is allowed to be mounted as optional instrumentation in place of part No. 921022-050 in the torso assembly as shown in drawing 921022-000.

(i) The outputs of acceleration and force-sensing devices installed in the dummy and in the test apparatus specified by this part are recorded in individual data channels that conform to the requirements of SAE Recommended Practice J211/1, Rev. Mar95 "Instrumentation for Impact Tests-Part 1-Electronic Instrumentation" (refer to § 572.150(a)(3)), with channel classes as follows:

(1) Head and headform acceleration-Class 1000.

(2) Neck :

(i) Forces-Class 1000;

(ii) Moments-Class 600;

(iii) Pendulum acceleration-Class 180;

(iv) Rotation potentiometer response (if used)-CFC 60.

(3) Thorax:

(i) Spine and pendulum accelerations-Class 180;

(ii) Shoulder forces-Class 600;

(4) Lumbar:

(i) Forces-Class 1000;

(ii) Moments-Class 600;

(5) Pelvis:

(i) Accelerations-Class 1000;

(ii) Pubic-Class 1000.

(j) Coordinate signs for instrumentation polarity shall conform to SAE J1733, 1994-12, "Sign Convention For Vehicle Crash Testing, Surface Vehicle Information Report," (refer to § 572.150(a)(4)).

(k) The mountings for sensing devices shall have no resonance frequency within a range of 3 times the frequency range of the applicable channel class.

(l) Limb joints shall be set at l g, barely restraining the weight of the limb when it is extended horizontally. The force required to move a limb segment shall not exceed 2 g throughout the range of limb motion.

(m) Performance tests of the same component, segment, assembly, or fully assembled dummy shall be separated in time by period of not less than 30 minutes unless otherwise noted.

(n) Surfaces of dummy components may not be painted except as specified in this subpart or in drawings referenced in § 572.150.
