
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart T - Hybrid III 10-Year-Old Child Test Dummy (HIII-10C)
###### ยง 572.173 Neck assembly and test procedure.
####### Extension.

(2)(i) Plane D, referenced in Figure T3, shall rotate in the direction of preimpact flight with respect to the pendulum's longitudinal centerline between 96 degrees and 115 degrees. During the time interval while the rotation is within the specified corridor, the peak moment, measured by the neck transducer (drawing SA572-S11, included in drawing 420-0000) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 572.170), about the occipital condyles may not be more than -37 N-m (-27.3 ft-lbf) and not less than -46 N-m (-33.9 ft-lbf). The positive moment shall decay for the first time to -10 N-m (-7.4 ft-lbf) between 100 ms and 116 ms after time zero.

(ii) The moment shall be calculated by the following formula: Moment (N-m) = M- (0.01778) x (F).

(iii) Mis the moment about the y-axis in Newton-meters, Fis the shear force measured by the neck transducer (drawing SA572-S11, included in drawing 420-0000) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 572.170) in Newtons, and 0.01778 is the distance in meters from the load center of the neck transducer to the occipital condyle.

(3) Time zero is defined as the time of initial contact between the pendulum striker plate and the honeycomb material. All data channels shall be at the zero level at this time.
