
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart T - Hybrid III 10-Year-Old Child Test Dummy (HIII-10C)
###### ยง 572.174 Thorax assembly and test procedure.
####### Test Procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the thorax assembly is as follows:

(1) The dummy is clothed in a form fitting cotton stretch above-the-elbow sleeved shirt and above-the-knees pants. The weight of the shirt and pants shall not exceed 0.14 kg (0.30 lb) each.

(2) Torque the lumbar cable (drawing 420-4130) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 572.170) to 0.9 +/-0.2 N-m (8 +/-2 in-lbf) and set the lumbar adjustment angle to 12 degrees. Set the neck angle to 16 degrees.

(3) Soak the dummy in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C (69 and 72 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(4) Seat and orient the dummy on a seating surface without back support as shown in Figure T4, with the limbs extended horizontally and forward, parallel to the midsagittal plane, the midsagittal plane vertical within +/-1 degree and the ribs level in the anterior-posterior and lateral directions within +/-0.5 degrees.

(5) Establish the impact point at the chest midsagittal plane so that the impact point of the longitudinal centerline of the probe coincides with the midsagittal plane of the dummy within +/-2.5 mm (0.1 in) and is 12.7 +/-1.1 mm (0.5 +/-0.04 in) below the horizontal-peripheral centerline of the No. 3 rib and is within 0.5 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.

(6) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that at the moment of contact the probe's longitudinal centerline falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.

(7) Guide the test probe during impact so that there is no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.

(8) No suspension hardware, suspension cables, or any other attachments to the probe, including the velocity vane, shall make contact with the dummy during the test.
