
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart T - Hybrid III 10-Year-Old Child Test Dummy (HIII-10C)
###### ยง 572.174 Thorax assembly and test procedure.

(a) The thorax consists of the part of the torso assembly designated as the upper torso (drawing 420-3000) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 572.170).

(b) When the anterior surface of the thorax of a completely assembled dummy (drawing 420-0000) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 572.170) is impacted by a test probe conforming to section 572.177 at 6.00 +/-0.12 m/s (22.0 +/-0.4 ft/s) according to the test procedure in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) Maximum sternum displacement (compression) relative to the spine, measured with chest deflection transducer (drawing SA572-T4, included in drawing 420-0000) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 572.170), must be not less than 37 mm (1.46 in) and not more than 46 mm (1.81 in). Within this specified compression corridor, the peak force, measured by the impact probe as defined in section 572.177 and calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, shall not be less than 2.0 kN (450 lbf) and not more than 2.45 kN (551 lbf). The peak force after 20 mm (0.79 in.) of sternum displacement but before reaching the minimum required 37 mm (1.46 in.) sternum displacement limit shall not exceed 2.52 kN (567 lbf).

(2) The internal hysteresis of the ribcage in each impact as determined by the plot of force vs. deflection in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be not less than 69 percent but not more than 85 percent. The hysteresis shall be calculated by determining the ratio of the area between the loading (from time zero to maximum deflection) and unloading portions (from maximum deflection to zero force) of the force deflection curve to the area under the loading portion of the curve.

(3) The force shall be calculated by the product of the impactor mass and its measured deceleration.
