
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart T - Hybrid III 10-Year-Old Child Test Dummy (HIII-10C)
###### ยง 572.173 Neck assembly and test procedure.
####### Test procedure.

(c)The test procedure for the neck assembly is as follows:

(1) Soak the neck assembly in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C (69 and 72 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(2) Torque the hex nut (drawing 420-2000, part 9000130) on the neck cable (drawing 420-2060) (both incorporated by reference, see ยง 572.170) to 0.9 +/-0.2 N-m (8 +/-2 in-lbf) before each test on the same neck.

(3) Mount the head-neck assembly, defined in paragraph (b) of this section, on the pendulum described in Figure 22 of 49 CFR part 572 so that the leading edge of the lower neck bracket coincides with the leading edge of the pendulum as shown in Figure T2 for flexion tests and Figure T3 for extension tests.

(4)(i) Release the pendulum and allow it to fall freely from a height to achieve an impact velocity of 6.1 +/-0.12 m/s (20.0 +/-0.4 ft/s) for flexion tests and 5.03 +/-0.12 m/s (16.50 +/-0.40 ft/s) for extension tests, measured by an accelerometer mounted on the pendulum as shown in Figure T2 at the instant of contact with the honeycomb.

(ii) Stop the pendulum from the initial velocity with an acceleration vs. time pulse that meets the velocity change as specified below. Integrate the pendulum acceleration data channel to obtain the velocity vs. time curve:
