
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart U - ES-2re Side Impact Crash Test Dummy, 50th Percentile Adult Male
###### § 572.181 General description.

(a) The ES-2re Side Impact Crash Test Dummy, 50th Percentile Adult Male, is defined by:

(1) The drawings and specifications contained in the "Parts List and Drawings, Part 572 Subpart U, Eurosid 2 with Rib Extensions (ES-2re, Alpha Version), September 2009," (incorporated by reference, see § 572.180), which includes the technical drawings and specifications described in Drawing 175-0000, the titles of which are listed in Table A;

(2) "Parts/Drawings List, Part 572 Subpart U, Eurosid 2 with Rib Extensions (ES2re), September 2009," containing 9 pages, incorporated by reference, see § 572.180,

(3) A listing of available transducers-crash test sensors for the ES-2re Crash Test Dummy is shown in drawing 175-0000 sheet 4 of 6, dated February 2008, incorporated by reference, see § 572.180,

(4) Procedures for Assembly, Disassembly and Inspection (PADI) of the ES-2re Side Impact Crash Test Dummy, February 2008, incorporated by reference, see § 572.180,

(5) Sign convention for signal outputs reference document SAE J1733 Information Report, titled "Sign Convention for Vehicle Crash Testing" dated December 1994, incorporated by reference, see § 572.180.

(b) Exterior dimensions of ES-2re test dummy are shown in drawing 175-0000 sheet 3 of 6, dated February 2008, incorporated by reference, see § 572.180.

(c) Weights of body segments (head, neck, upper and lower torso, arms and upper and lower segments) and the center of gravity location of the head are shown in drawing 175-0000 sheet 2 of 6, dated February 2008, incorporated by reference, see § 572.180.

(d) Adjacent segments are joined in a manner such that, except for contacts existing under static conditions, there is no additional contact between metallic elements of adjacent body segments throughout the range of motion.

(e) The structural properties of the dummy are such that the dummy conforms to this Subpart in every respect before use in any test similar to those in Standard No. 214, Side Impact Protection and Standard No. 201, Occupant Protection in Interior Impact.
