
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart U - ES-2re Side Impact Crash Test Dummy, 50th Percentile Adult Male
###### ยง 572.186 Abdomen assembly.
####### Test procedure.

(b)

(1) Soak the dummy assembly (175-0000), without suit (175-8000) and shoulder foam pad (175-3010), as specified in ยง 572.189(n);

(2) The dummy is seated as shown in Figure U5 in appendix A to this subpart;

(3) The abdomen impactor is the same as specified in ยง 572.189(a) except that on its rectangular impact surface is affixed a special purpose block whose weight is 1.0 +/-0.01 kg. The block is 70 mm high, 150 mm wide and 60 to 80 mm deep. The impact surface is flat, has a minimum Rockwell hardness of M85, and an edge radius of 4 to 5 mm. The block's wide surface is horizontally oriented and centered on the longitudinal axis of the probe's impact face as shown in Figure U5-A in appendix A to this subpart;

(4) The impactor is guided, if needed, so that at contact with the abdomen its longitudinal axis is within +/-0.5 degrees of a horizontal plane and perpendicular +/-0.5 degrees to the midsagittal plane of the dummy and the centerpoint on the impactor's face is aligned within 5 mm of the center point of the middle load measuring sensor in the abdomen as shown in Figure U5;

(5) The impactor impacts the dummy's abdomen at 4.0 m/s +/-0.1 m/s;

(6) Time zero is defined in ยง 572.189(k).

(c) Performance criteria.

(1) The maximum sum of the forces of the three abdominal load sensors, specified in 572.189(e), shall be not less than 2200 N and not more than 2700 N and shall occur between 10 ms and 12.3 ms from time zero. The calculated sum of the three load cell forces must be concurrent in time.

(2) Maximum impactor force (impact probe acceleration multiplied by its mass) is not less than 4000 N and not more than 4800 N occurring between 10.6 ms and 13.0 ms from time zero.
