
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart V - SID-IIsD Side Impact Crash Test Dummy, Small Adult Female
###### ยง 572.195 Thorax with arm.
####### Test procedure.

(b)(1) Soak the dummy assembly (180-0000) in a test environment as specified in 49 CFR 572.200(j).

(2) Seat the dummy, outfitted with the torso jacket (180-3450) and cotton underwear pants on a certification bench, specified in Figure V3, the seat pan and the seatback surfaces of which are covered with a 2-mm-thick PTFE (Teflon) sheet.

(3) Align the outermost portion of the pelvis flesh of the impacted side of the seated dummy tangent to a vertical plane located within 10 mm of the side edge of the bench as shown in Figure V5-A, while the midsagittal plane of the dummy is in vertical orientation.

(4) Push the dummy at the knees and at mid-sternum of the upper torso with just sufficient horizontally oriented force towards the seat back until the back of the upper torso is in contact with the seat back.

(5) While maintaining the dummy's position as specified in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section, the top of the shoulder rib mount (drawing 180-3352) orientation in the fore-and-aft direction is 24.6 +/-2.0 degrees relative to horizontal as shown in Figure V5-B in appendix A to this subpart.

(6) Adjust orientation of the legs such that they are symmetrical about the mid-sagittal plane, the thighs touch the seat pan, the inner part of the right and left legs at the knees are as close as possible to each other, the heels touch the designated foot support surface and the feet are vertical and as close together as possible.

(7) Orient the arm downward to the lowest detent such that the longitudinal centerline of the arm is parallel to the inferior-superior orientation of the spine box.

(8) The impactor is specified in 49 CFR 572.200(a).

(9) The impactor is guided, if needed, so that at contact with the dummy's arm, its longitudinal axis is within +/-1 degree of a horizontal plane and perpendicular to the midsagittal plane of the dummy. The centerpoint of the impactor face is within 2 mm of the vertical midpoint of the second thoracic rib and coincident with a line parallel to the seat back incline passing through the center of the shoulder yoke assembly arm rotation pivot (drawing 180-3327), as shown in Figure V5-A in appendix A to this subpart.

(10) The dummy's arm is impacted at 6.7 +/-0.1 m/s.

(11) Time zero is defined as the time of contact between the impact probe and the arm.

(12) Allow a period of at least thirty (30) minutes between successive tests of the same thorax assembly.
