
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart W - Q3s Three-Year-Old Child Test Dummy
###### ยง 572.217 Lumbar spine assembly and test procedure.
####### dt

Headform rotation (deg) = &#x222B; [(Headform Angular Rate)-(Pendulum Angular Rate)]

(c) The test procedure for the lumbar spine assembly is as follows:

(1) Soak the lumbar spine assembly in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C and a relative humidity between 10 and 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(2)(i) For the fore-aft lumbar flexion test, mount the lumbar spine and headform assembly, defined in paragraph (a) of this section, on the pendulum described Figure 22 to ยง 572.33 so that the midsagittal plane of the headform is vertical and coincides with the plane of motion of the pendulum, and with the lumbar spine placement such that the front side of the lumbar spine is closest to the honeycomb material.

(ii) For the lateral lumbar flexion test, the test is carried out in the direction opposing the primary load vector of the ensuing full scale test for which the dummy is being qualified. A right flexion test set-up that is used to qualify the dummy for an ensuing a full scale right side impact is depicted in figure W10 in appendix A to this subpart. A left flexion test set-up would be depicted by a mirror image of all components beneath the pendulum interface plate in Figure W10. Mount the lumbar spine and headform assembly, defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, on the pendulum described in figure 22 to ยง 572.33 so that the midsagittal plane of the headform is vertical and perpendicular to the direction of motion of the pendulum, and with the lumbar spine placement such that the right (or left) side of the lumbar spine is closest to the honeycomb material.

(3)(i) Release the pendulum and allow it to fall freely from a height to achieve an impact velocity of 4.4 +/- 0.1 m/s, measured by an accelerometer mounted on the pendulum as shown in Figure 22 to ยง 572.33 at time zero.

(ii) Stop the pendulum from the initial velocity with an acceleration vs. time pulse that meets the velocity change as specified in table 1 to this section. Integrate the pendulum accelerometer data channel to obtain the velocity vs. time curve beginning at time zero.

(iii) Time zero is defined as the time of initial contact between the pendulum striker plate and the honeycomb material.
