
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart W - Q3s Three-Year-Old Child Test Dummy
###### § 572.214 Shoulder assembly and test procedure.

All assemblies and drawings referenced in this section are contained in Drawings and Specifications, incorporated by reference, see § 572.210.

(a) The shoulder assembly for this test consists of the torso assembly (drawing 020-4500) with string pot assembly (drawing SA572-S38 or SA572-S39) installed.

(b) When the center of the shoulder of a completely assembled dummy (drawing 020-0100) is impacted laterally by a test probe conforming to § 572.219, at 3.6 +/- 0.1 m/s according to the test procedure in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) Maximum lateral shoulder displacement (compression) relative to the spine, measured with the string potentiometer assembly (drawing SA572-S38 or SA572-S39), must not be less than 17.0 mm and not more than 22.0 mm. The peak force, measured by the impact probe as defined in § 572.219 and calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shall have a value between 1123 N and 1437 N.

(2) The force shall be calculated by the product of the impactor mass and its measured deceleration.

(c) The test procedure for the shoulder assembly is as follows:

(1) The dummy is clothed in the Q3s suit (drawing 020-8001). No additional clothing or shoes are placed on the dummy.

(2) Soak the dummy in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C and a relative humidity from 10 to 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(3) The shoulder test is carried out in the direction opposing the primary load vector of the ensuing full scale test for which the dummy is being qualified. A left shoulder test set-up that is used to qualify the dummy for an ensuing full scale left side impact is depicted in figure W6 in appendix A to this subpart. A right shoulder set-up would be a mirror image of that shown in figure W6. Seat the dummy on the qualification bench described in figure V3 to § 572.194, the seat pan and seat back surfaces of which are covered with thin sheets of PTFE (Teflon) (nominal stock thickness: 2 to 3 mm) along the impact side of the bench.

(4) Position the dummy on the bench as shown in Figure W6, with the ribs making contact with the seat back oriented 24.6 degrees relative to vertical, the legs extended forward along the seat pan oriented 21.6 degrees relative to horizontal with the knees spaced 40 mm apart. Position the arms so that the upper arms are parallel to the seat back (+/-2 degrees) and the lower arms are parallel to the dummy's sagittal plane and perpendicular to the upper arms. Move the elbows inward (medially) until initial contact occurs between the sleeve and the portion of the suit covering the thorax while maintaining the relationships between the arms, seat back, and sagittal plane.

(5) The target point of the impact is a point on the shoulder that is 15 mm above and perpendicular to the midpoint of a line connecting the centers of the bolt heads of the two lower bolts (part #5000010) that connect the upper arm assembly (020-9750) to the shoulder ball retaining ring (020-3533).

(6) Impact the shoulder with the test probe so that at the moment of contact the probe's longitudinal centerline should be horizontal (+/-1 degree), and the centerline of the probe should be within 2 mm of the target point.

(7) Guide the test probe during impact so that there is no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.

(8) No suspension hardware, suspension cables, or any other attachments to the probe, including the velocity vane, shall make contact with the dummy during the test.
