
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart W - Q3s Three-Year-Old Child Test Dummy
###### § 572.218 Pelvis assembly and test procedure.

All assemblies and drawings referenced in this section are contained in Drawings and Specifications, incorporated by reference, see § 572.210.

(a) The pelvis assembly (drawing 020-7500) for this test may include either a uniaxial pubic load cell (drawing SA572-S7) or a pubic load cell structural replacement (drawing 020-7150) installed on the non-impact side of the pelvis.

(b) When the center of the pelvis of a completely assembled dummy (drawing 020-0100) is impacted laterally by a test probe conforming to § 572.219 at 4.0 +/- 0.1 m/s according to the test procedure in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) The peak force, measured by the impact probe as defined in § 572.219 and calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shall have a value between 1587 N and 1901 N.

(2) The force shall be calculated by the product of the impactor mass and its measured deceleration.

(c) The test procedure for the pelvis assembly is as follows:

(1) The dummy is clothed in the Q3s suit (drawing 020-8001). No additional clothing or shoes are placed on the dummy.

(2) Soak the dummy in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C (69 and 72 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity from 10 to 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(3) The pelvis test is carried out in the direction opposing the primary load vector of the ensuing full scale test for which the dummy is being qualified. A left pelvis test set-up that is used to qualify the dummy for an ensuing full scale left side impact is depicted in figure W11 in appendix A to this subpart. A right pelvis test set-up would be a mirror image of that shown in figure W11. Seat the dummy on the qualification bench described in figure V3 to § 572.194, the seat pan and seat back surfaces of which are covered with thin sheets of PTFE (Teflon) (nominal stock thickness: 2 to 3 mm) along the impact side of the bench.

(4) Position the dummy on the bench as shown in figure W11 in appendix A to this subpart, with the ribs making contact with the seat back oriented 24.6 degrees relative to vertical, the legs extended forward along the seat pan oriented 21.6 degrees relative to horizontal with the knees spaced 40 mm apart. The arms should be positioned so that the arm on the non-impacted side is parallel to the seat back with the lower arm perpendicular to the upper arm, and the arm on the impacted side is positioned upwards away from the pelvis.

(5) Establish the impact point at the center of the pelvis so that the impact point of the longitudinal centerline of the probe is located 185 mm from the center of the knee pivot screw (part #020-9008) and centered vertically on the femur.

(6) Impact the pelvis with the test probe so that at the moment of contact the probe's longitudinal centerline should be horizontal (+/-1 degrees), and the centerline of the probe should be within 2 mm of the center of the pelvis.

(7) Guide the test probe during impact so that there is no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.

(8) No suspension hardware, suspension cables, or any other attachments to the probe, including the velocity vane, shall make contact with the dummy during the test.
