
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 572 - ANTHROPOMORPHIC TEST DEVICES
##### Subpart W - Q3s Three-Year-Old Child Test Dummy
###### § 572.215 Thorax with arm assembly and test procedure.

All assemblies and drawings referenced in this section are contained in Drawings and Specifications, incorporated by reference, see § 572.210.

(a) The thorax assembly for this test consists of the torso assembly (drawing 020-4500) with an IR-TRACC (drawing SA572-S37) installed.

(b) When the thorax of a completely assembled dummy (drawing 020-0100) is impacted laterally by a test probe conforming to § 572.219 at 5.0 +/- 0.1 m/s according to the test procedure in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) Maximum lateral thorax displacement (compression) relative to the spine, measured with the IR-TRACC (drawing SA572-S37) and processed as set out in the PADI (incorporated by reference, see § 572.210), shall have a value between 22.5 mm and 27.5 mm. The peak force occurring after 5 ms, measured by the impact probe as defined in § 572.219 and calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shall have a value between 1360 N and 1695 N.

(2) The force shall be calculated by the product of the impactor mass and its measured deceleration.

(3) Time zero is defined as the time of contact between the impact probe and the arm. All channels should be at a zero level at this point.

(c) The test procedure for the thorax with arm assembly is as follows:

(1) The dummy is clothed in the Q3s suit (drawing 020-8001). No additional clothing or shoes are placed on the dummy.

(2) Soak the dummy in a controlled environment at any temperature between 20.6 and 22.2 &#xB0;C and a relative humidity from 10 to 70 percent for at least four hours prior to a test.

(3) The test is carried out in the direction opposing the primary load vector of the ensuing full scale test for which the dummy is being qualified. A left thorax test set-up that is used to qualify the dummy for an ensuing full scale left side impact is depicted in figure W7 in appendix A to this subpart. A right thorax set-up would be a mirror image of that shown in figure W7. Seat the dummy on the qualification bench described in figure V3 to § 572.194, the seat pan and seat back surfaces of which are covered with thin sheets of PTFE (Teflon) (nominal stock thickness: 2 to 3 mm) along the impact side of the bench.

(4) Position the dummy on the bench as shown in figure W7 in appendix A to this subpart, with the ribs making contact with the seat back oriented 24.6 degrees relative to vertical, the legs extended forward along the seat pan oriented 21.6 degrees relative to horizontal with the knees spaced 40 mm apart. On the non-impact side of the dummy, the long axis of the upper arm is positioned parallel to the seat back (+/-2 degrees). On the impact side, the upper arm is positioned such that the target point intersects its long axis as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. The long axis of the upper arm is defined by section line A-A in drawing 020-9750. Both of the lower arms are set perpendicular to the upper arms and parallel to the dummy's sagittal plane. Move the elbows inward (medially) until initial contact occurs between the sleeve and the portion of the suit covering the thorax while maintaining the relationships between the arms, seat back, and sagittal plane.

(5) The target point of the impact is the point of intersection on the lateral aspect of the upper arm and a line projecting from the thorax of the dummy. The projecting line is horizontal, runs parallel to the coronal plane of the dummy, and passes through the midpoint of a line connecting the centers of the bolt heads of the two IR-TRACC bolts (part #5000646). The projected line should intersect the upper arm within 2 mm of its long axis.

(6) Impact the arm with the test probe so that at the moment of contact the probe's longitudinal centerline should be horizontal (+/-1 degrees), and the centerline of the probe should be within 2 mm of the target point.

(7) Guide the test probe during impact so that there is no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.

(8) No suspension hardware, suspension cables, or any other attachments to the probe, including the velocity vane, shall make contact with the dummy during the test.
