
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 573 - DEFECT AND NONCOMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITY AND REPORTS
##### § 573.3 Application.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section, this part applies to manufacturers of complete motor vehicles, incomplete motor vehicles, and motor vehicle original and replacement equipment, with respect to all vehicles and equipment that have been transported beyond the direct control of the manufacturer.

(b) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in a motor vehicle or equipment item imported into the United States, compliance with §§ 573.6 and 573.7 by either the fabricating manufacturer or the importer of the vehicle or equipment item shall be considered compliance by both.

(c) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in a vehicle manufactured in two or more stages, compliance with §§ 573.6 and 573.7 by either the manufacturer of the incomplete vehicle or any subsequent manufacturer of the vehicle shall be considered compliance by all manufacturers.

(d) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in an item of replacement equipment (except tires) compliance with §§ 573.6 and 573.7 by the brand name or trademark owner shall be considered compliance by the manufacturer. Tire brand name owners are considered manufacturers (49 U.S.C. 10102(b)(1)(E)) and have the same reporting requirements as manufacturers.

(e) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in an item of original equipment used in the vehicles of only one vehicle manufacturer, compliance with §§ 573.6 and 573.7 by either the vehicle or equipment manufacturer shall be considered compliance by both.

(f) In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in original equipment installed in the vehicles of more than one manufacturer, compliance with § 573.6 is required of the equipment manufacturer as to the equipment item, and of each vehicle manufacturer as to the vehicles in which the equipment has been installed. Compliance with § 573.7 is required of the manufacturer who is conducting the recall campaign.

(g) The provisions of § 573.10 apply to all persons.

(h) The provisions of § 573.11 apply to dealers, including retailers of motor vehicle equipment.

(i) The provisions of § 573.12 apply to all persons.
