
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 573 - DEFECT AND NONCOMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITY AND REPORTS
##### ยง 573.6 Defect and noncompliance information report.
###### i.e.

(iv) In the case of motor vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment in which the component that contains the defect or noncompliance was manufactured by a different manufacturer from the reporting manufacturer, the reporting manufacturer shall identify the component and, if known, the component's country of origin (final place of manufacture or assembly), the manufacturer and/or assembler of the component by name, business address, and business telephone number. If the reporting manufacturer does not know the identity of the manufacturer of the component, it shall identify the entity from which it was obtained. If at the time of submission of the initial report, the reporting manufacturer does not know the country of origin of the component, the manufacturer shall ascertain the country of origin and submit a supplemental report with that information once it becomes available.

(v) In the case of items of motor vehicle equipment, the manufacturer of the equipment shall identify by name, business address, and business telephone number every manufacturer that purchases the defective or noncomplying component for use or installation in new motor vehicles or new items of motor vehicle equipment.

(3) The total number of vehicles or items of equipment potentially containing the defect or noncompliance, and where available the number of vehicles or items of equipment in each group identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(4) The percentage of vehicles or items of equipment specified pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section estimated to actually contain the defect or noncompliance.

(5) A description of the defect or noncompliance, including both a brief summary and a detailed description, with graphic aids as necessary, of the nature and physical location (if applicable) of the defect or noncompliance. In addition, the manufacturer shall identify and describe the risk to motor vehicle safety reasonably related to the defect or noncompliance consistent with its evaluation of risk required by 49 CFR 577.5(f).

(6) In the case of a defect, a chronology of all principal events that were the basis for the determination that the defect related to motor vehicle safety, including a summary of all warranty claims, field or service reports, and other information, with their dates of receipt.

(7) In the case of a noncompliance, the test results and other information that the manufacturer considered in determining the existence of the noncompliance. The manufacturer shall identify the date of each test and observation that indicated that a noncompliance might or did exist.

(8)(i) A description of the manufacturer's program for remedying the defect or noncompliance. This program shall include a plan for reimbursing an owner or purchaser who incurred costs to obtain a remedy for the problem addressed by the recall within a reasonable time in advance of the manufacturer's notification of owners, purchasers and dealers, in accordance with ยง 573.13 of this part. A manufacturer's plan may incorporate by reference a general reimbursement plan it previously submitted to NHTSA, together with information specific to the individual recall. Information required by ยง 573.13 that is not in a general reimbursement plan shall be submitted in the manufacturer's report to NHTSA under this section. If a manufacturer submits one or more general reimbursement plans, the manufacturer shall update each plan every two years, in accordance with ยง 573.13. The manufacturer's remedy program and reimbursement plans will be available for inspection by the public at NHTSA headquarters.

(ii) The estimated date(s) on which it will begin sending notifications to owners, and to dealers and distributors, that there is a safety-related defect or noncompliance and that a remedy without charge will be available to owners, and the estimated date(s) on which it will complete such notifications (if different from the beginning date). If a manufacturer subsequently becomes aware that either the beginning or the completion dates reported to the agency for any of the notifications will be delayed by more than two weeks, it shall promptly advise the agency of the delay and the reasons therefore, and furnish a revised estimate.

(iii) If a manufacturer intends to file a petition for an exemption from the recall requirements of the Act on the basis that a defect or noncompliance is inconsequential as it relates to motor vehicle safety, it shall notify NHTSA of that intention in its report to NHTSA of the defect or noncompliance under this section. If such a petition is filed and subsequently denied, the manufacturer shall provide the information required by paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section within five Federal government business days from the date the petition denial is published in the

(iv) If a manufacturer advises NHTSA that it intends to file such a petition for exemption from the notification and remedy requirements on the grounds that the defect or noncompliance is inconsequential as it relates to motor vehicle safety, and does not do so within the 30-day period established by 49 CFR 556.4(c), the manufacturer must submit the information required by paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section no later than the end of that 30-day period.

(9) In the case of a remedy program involving the replacement of tires, the manufacturer's program for remedying the defect or noncompliance shall:

(i) Address how the manufacturer will assure that the entities replacing the tires are aware of the legal requirements related to recalls of tires established by 49 U.S.C. Chapter 301 and regulations thereunder. At a minimum, the manufacturer shall notify its owned stores and/or distributors, as well as all independent outlets that are authorized to replace the tires that are the subject of the recall, annually or for each individual recall that the manufacturer conducts, about the ban on the sale of new defective or noncompliant tires (49 CFR 573.11); the prohibition on the sale of new and used defective and noncompliant tires (49 CFR 573.12); and the duty to notify NHTSA of any sale of a new or used recalled tire for use on a motor vehicle (49 CFR 573.10). For tire outlets that are manufacturer-owned or otherwise subject to the control of the manufacturer, the manufacturer shall also provide directions to comply with these statutory provisions and the regulations thereunder.

(ii) Address how the manufacturer will prevent, to the extent reasonably within its control, the recalled tires from being resold for installation on a motor vehicle. At a minimum, the manufacturer shall include the following information, to be furnished to each tire outlet that it owns, or that is authorized to replace tires that are recalled, either annually or for each individual recall the manufacturer conducts:

(A) Written directions to manufacturer-owned and other manufacturer-controlled outlets to alter the recalled tires permanently so that they cannot be used on vehicles. These shall include instructions on the means to render recalled tires unsuitable for resale for installation on motor vehicles and instructions to perform the incapacitation of each recalled tire, with the exception of any tires that are returned to the manufacturer pursuant to a testing program, within 24 hours of receipt of the recalled tire at the outlet. If the manufacturer has a testing program for recalled tires, these directions shall also include criteria for selecting recalled tires for testing and instructions for labeling those tires and returning them promptly to the manufacturer for testing.

(B) Written guidance to all other outlets which are authorized to replace the recalled tires on how to alter the recalled tires promptly and permanently so that they cannot be used on vehicles.

(C) A requirement that manufacturer-owned and other manufacturer-controlled outlets report to the manufacturer, either on a monthly basis or within 30 days of the deviation, the number of recalled tires removed from vehicles by the outlet that have not been rendered unsuitable for resale for installation on a motor vehicle within the specified time frame (other than those returned for testing) and describe any such failure to act in accordance with the manufacturer's plan;

(iii) Address how the manufacturer will limit, to the extent reasonably within its control, the disposal of the recalled tires in landfills and, instead, channel them into a category of positive reuse (shredding, crumbling, recycling, and recovery) or another alternative beneficial non-vehicular use. At a minimum, the manufacturer shall include the following information, to be furnished to each tire outlet that it owns or that is authorized to replace tires that are recalled, either annually or for each individual recall that the manufacturer conducts:
