
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 573 - DEFECT AND NONCOMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITY AND REPORTS
##### ยง 573.6 Defect and noncompliance information report.

(a) Each manufacturer shall furnish a report to the NHTSA for each defect in his vehicles or in his items of original or replacement equipment that he or the Administrator determines to be related to motor vehicle safety, and for each noncompliance with a motor vehicle safety standard in such vehicles or items of equipment which either he or the Administrator determines to exist.

(b) Each report shall be submitted not more than 5 working days after a defect in a vehicle or item of equipment has been determined to be safety related, or a noncompliance with a motor vehicle safety standard has been determined to exist. At a minimum, information required by paragraphs (c)(1), (2), and (5) of this section shall be submitted in the initial report. The remainder of the information required by paragraph (c) of this section that is not available within the five-day period shall be submitted within 5 working days after the manufacturer has confirmed the accuracy of the information. In addition, each manufacturer shall amend information required by paragraphs (c)(2), (3), and (8)(i) or (ii) within 5 working days after it has new information that updates or corrects information that was previously reported. Each manufacturer submitting new information relative to a previously submitted report shall refer to the recall campaign number when a number has been assigned by the NHTSA.

(c) Each manufacturer shall include in each report the information specified below.

(1) The manufacturer's name: The full corporate or individual name of the fabricating manufacturer and any brand name or trademark owner of the vehicle or item of equipment shall be spelled out, except that such abbreviations as "Co." or "Inc.", and their foreign equivalents, and the first and middle initials of individuals, may be used. In the case of a defect or noncompliance decided to exist in an imported vehicle or item of equipment, the agency designated by the fabricating manufacturer pursuant to 49 U.S.C. section 30164(a) shall be also stated. If the fabricating manufacturer is a corporation that is controlled by another corporation that assumes responsibility for compliance with all requirements of this part the name of the controlling corporation may be used.

(2) Identification of the vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment potentially containing the defect or noncompliance, including a description of the manufacturer's basis for its determination of the recall population and a description of how the vehicles or items of equipment to be recalled differ from similar vehicles or items of equipment that the manufacturer has not included in the recall.

(i) In the case of passenger cars, the identification shall be by the make, line, model year, the inclusive dates (month and year) of manufacture, and any other information necessary to describe the vehicles.

(ii) In the case of vehicles other than passenger cars, the identification shall be by body style or type, inclusive dates (month and year) of manufacture and any other information necessary to describe the vehicles, such as GVWR or class for trucks, displacement (cc) for motorcycles, and number of passengers for buses.
