
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 573 - DEFECT AND NONCOMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITY AND REPORTS
##### ยง 573.7 Quarterly reports.

(a) Each manufacturer who is conducting a defect or noncompliance notification campaign to manufacturers, distributors, dealers, or owners shall submit to NHTSA a report in accordance with paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. Unless otherwise directed by the NHTSA, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section shall be included in the quarterly report, with respect to each notification campaign, for each of six consecutive quarters beginning with the quarter in which the campaign was initiated (i.e., the date the manufacturer notifies its purchasers of the availability of a remedy) or corrective action has been completed on all defective or noncomplying vehicles or items of replacement equipment involved in the campaign, whichever occurs first.

(b) Each report shall include the following information identified by and in the order of the subparagraph headings of this paragraph.

(1) The notification campaign number assigned by NHTSA.

(2) The date notification began and the date completed.

(3) The number of vehicles or items of equipment involved in the notification campaign.

(4) The number of vehicles and equipment items which have been inspected and repaired and the number of vehicles and equipment items inspected and determined not to need repair.

(5) The number of vehicles or items of equipment determined to be unreachable for inspection due to export, theft, scrapping, failure to receive notification, or other reasons (specify). The number of vehicles or items or equipment in each category shall be specified.

(6) In reports by equipment manufacturers, the number of items of equipment repaired and/or returned by dealers, other retailers, and distributors to the manufacturer prior to their first sale to the public.

(7) For all recalls that involve the replacement of tires, the manufacturer shall provide:

(i) The aggregate number of recalled tires that the manufacturer becomes aware have not been rendered unsuitable for resale for installation on a motor vehicle in accordance with the manufacturer's plan provided to NHTSA pursuant to ยง 573.6(c)(9);

(ii) The aggregate number of recalled tires that the manufacturer becomes aware have been disposed of in violation of applicable state and local laws and regulations; and

(iii) A description of any failure of a tire outlet to act in accordance with the directions in the manufacturer's plan, including an identification of the outlet(s) in question.

(c) Information supplied in response to the paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section shall be cumulative totals.

(d) The reports required by this section shall be submitted in accordance with the following schedule, except that if the due date specified below falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the report shall be submitted on the next day that is a business day for the Federal government:

(1) For the first calendar quarter (January 1 through March 31), on or before April 30;

(2) For the second calendar quarter (April 1 through June 30), on or before July 30;

(3) For the third calendar quarter (July 1 through September 30), on or before October 30; and

(4) For the fourth calendar quarter (October 1 through December 31), on or before January 30.
