
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 574 - TIRE IDENTIFICATION AND RECORDKEEPING
##### ยง 574.7 Information requirements - new tire manufacturers, new tire brand name owners.
###### 3

() The area of the form for recording the customer name and address must not be shaded.

(E) Include, in the top right corner, the phrase "OMB Control No. 2127-0050".

(3) Each tire registration form provided to distributors and dealers that are not independent distributors or dealers pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section must contain space for recording the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(iii) of this section. Each form must include:

(A) A statement indicating where the form should be returned, including the name and mailing address of the manufacturer or its designee.

(B) The tire manufacturers' logo or other identification, if the manufacturer is not identified as part of the statement indicating where the form should be returned.

(C) The statement: "IMPORTANT: FEDERAL LAW REQUIRES TIRE IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS MUST BE REGISTERED".

(D) In the top right corner, the phrase "OMB Control No. 2127-0050".

(4)(i) Name and address of the tire purchaser.

(ii) Tire identification number.

(iii) Name and address of the tire seller or other means by which the tire manufacturer can identify the tire seller.

(b) Each tire manufacturer shall record and maintain, or have recorded and maintained for it by a designee, the information from registration forms which are submitted to it or its designee. No tire manufacturer shall use the information on the registration forms for any commercial purpose detrimental to tire distributors and dealers. Any tire manufacturer to which registration forms are mistakenly sent shall forward those registration forms to the proper tire manufacturer within 90 days of the receipt of the forms.

(c) Each tire manufacturer shall maintain, or have maintained for it by a designee, a record of each tire distributor and dealer that purchases tires directly from the manufacturer and sells them to tire purchasers, the number of tires purchased by each such distributor or dealer, the number of tires for which reports have been received from each such distributor or dealer other than an independent distributor or dealer, the number of tires for which reports have been received from each such independent distributor or dealer, the total number of tires for which registration forms have been submitted to the manufacturer or its designee, and the total number of tires sold by the manufacturer.

(d) The information that is specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and recorded on registration forms submitted to a tire manufacturer or its designee shall be maintained for a period of not less than five years from the date on which the information is recorded by the manufacturer or its designee.

(e) Tire manufacturers may voluntarily provide means for tire registration via the Internet, by telephone or other electronic means.

(f) Each tire manufacturer shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section with respect to tire registration information submitted to it or its designee by any means authorized by the manufacturer in addition to the use of registration forms.
