
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Regulations; Consumer Information Items
###### ยง 575.103 Truck-camper loading.
####### Owner's manual.

(ii)Each slide-in camper manufacturer shall provide with each camper a manual or other document containing the information specified in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) (A) through (F) of this section.

(A) The statement and information provided on the label as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. Instead of the information required by paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(B) of this section, a manufacturer may use the statements "See camper identification label located (as applicable) for month and year of manufacture." If water, bottled gas, or refrigerator (icebox) has been omitted from this statement, the manufacturer's information shall note such omission and advise that the weight of any such item when added to the camper should be added to the maximum camper weight figure used in selecting an appropriate truck.

(B) A list of other additional or optional equipment that the camper is designed to carry, and the maximum weight of each if its weight is more than 9 kg. (20 lbs) when installed.

(C) The statement: "To estimate the total cargo load that will be placed on a truck, add the weight of all passengers in the camper, the weight of supplies, tools, and all other cargo, the weight of installed additional or optional camper equipment, and the manufacturer's camper weight figure. Select a truck that has a cargo weight rating that is equal to or greater than the total cargo load of the camper and whose manufacturer recommends a cargo center of gravity zone that will contain the camper's center of gravity when it is installed."

(D) The statements: "When loading this camper, store heavy gear first, keeping it on or close to the camper floor. Place heavy things far enough forward to keep the loaded camper's center of gravity within the zone recommended by the truck manufacturer. Store only light objects on high shelves. Distribute weight to obtain even side-to-side balance of the loaded vehicle. Secure loose items to prevent weight shifts that could affect the balance of your vehicle. When the truck-camper is loaded, drive to a scale and weigh on the front and on the rear wheels separately to determine axle loads. The load on an axle should not exceed its gross axle weight rating (GAWR). The total of the axle loads should not exceed the gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR). These weight ratings are given on the vehicle certification label that is located on the left side of the vehicle, normally on the dash panel, hinge pillar, door latch post, or door edge next to the driver on trucks manufactured on or after January 1, 1972. If weight ratings are exceeded, move or remove items to bring all weights below the ratings."

(E) A picture showing the location of the longitudinal center of gravity of the camper within an accuracy of 5 centimeters (2 inches) under the loaded condition specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i)(D) of this section in the manner illustrated in Figure 2.

(F) A picture showing the proper match of a truck and slide-in camper in the form illustrated in Figure 3.
