
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Regulations; Consumer Information Items
###### ยง 575.103 Truck-camper loading.
####### Month and year of manufacture.

(B)It may be spelled out, such as "June 1995" or expressed in numerals, such as "695."

(C) The following statement completed as appropriate:

"Camper weight is ____________ kg. (____________ lbs.) maximum when it contains standard equipment, ____________ liters (____________ gal.) of water, ____________ kg. (____________ lbs.) of bottled gas, and ____________ cubic meters (____________ cubic ft.) refrigerator (or icebox with ____________ kg. (____________ lbs.) of ice, as applicable). Consult owner's manual (or data sheet, as applicable) for weights of additional or optional equipment."

(D) "Liters (or gal.) of water" refers to the volume of water necessary to fill the camper's fresh water tanks to capacity. "Kg. (or lbs.) of bottled gas" refers to the amount of gas necessary to fill the camper's bottled gas tanks to capacity. The statement regarding a "refrigerator" or "icebox" refers to the capacity of the refrigerator with which the vehicle is equipped or the weight of the ice with which the icebox may be filled. Any of these items may be omitted from the statement if the corresponding accessories are not included with the camper, provided that the omission is noted in the camper owner's manual as required in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
