
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Regulations; Consumer Information Items
###### ยง 575.103 Truck-camper loading.
####### Trucks.

(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, each manufacturer of a truck that is capable of accommodating a slide-in camper shall provide to the purchaser in the owner's manual or other document delivered with the truck, in writing and in the English language, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) (A) through (E) of this section.

(A) A picture showing the manufacturer's recommended longitudinal center of gravity zone for the cargo weight rating in the form illustrated in Figure 4. The boundaries of the zone shall be such that when a slide-in camper equal in weight to the truck's cargo weight rating is installed, no GAWR of the truck is exceeded.

(B) The truck's cargo weight rating.

(C) The statements: "When the truck is used to carry a slide-in camper, the total cargo load of the truck consists of the manufacturer's camper weight figure, the weight of installed additional camper equipment not included in the manufacturer's camper weight figure, the weight of camper cargo, and the weight of passengers in the camper. The total cargo load should not exceed the truck's cargo weight rating and the camper's center of gravity should fall within the truck's recommended center of gravity zone when installed."

(D) A picture showing the proper match of a truck and slide-in camper in the form illustrated in Figure 3.

(E) The statements: "Secure loose items to prevent weight shifts that could affect the balance of your vehicle. When the truck camper is loaded, drive to a scale and weigh on the front and on the rear wheels separately to determine axle loads. Individual axle loads should not exceed either of the gross axle weight ratings (GAWR). The total of the axle loads should not exceed the gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR). These ratings are given on the vehicle certification label that is located on the left side of the vehicle, normally the dash, hinge pillar, door latch post, or door edge next to the driver. If weight ratings are exceeded, move or remove items to bring all weights below the ratings."

(ii) If a truck would accommodate a slide-in camper but the manufacturer of the truck recommends that the truck not be used for that purpose, the information specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section shall not be provided but instead the manufacturer shall provide a statement that the truck should not be used to carry a slide-in camper.
