
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Regulations; Consumer Information Items
###### ยง 575.104 Uniform tire quality grading standards.
####### Requirements,Information.

(d)-(1)(i) Each manufacturer of tires, or in the case of tires marketed under a brand name, each brand name owner, shall provide grading information for each tire of which he is the manufacturer or brand name owner in the manner set forth in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) (A) and (B) of this section. The grades for each tire shall be only those specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Each tire shall be able to achieve the level of performance represented by each grade with which it is labeled. An individual tire need not, however, meet further requirements after having been subjected to the test for any one grade.

(A) Except for a tire of a new tire line, manufactured within the first six months of production of the tire line, each tire shall be graded with the words, letters, symbols, and figures specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, permanently molded into or onto the tire sidewall between the tire's maximum section width and shoulder in accordance with one of the methods described in Figure 1. For purposes of this paragraph, new tire line shall mean a group of tires differing substantially in construction, materials, or design from those previously sold by the manufacturer or brand name owner of the tires. As used in this paragraph, the term "construction" refers to the internal structure of the tire (e.g., cord angles, number and placement of breakers), "materials" refers to the substances used in manufacture of the tire (e.g., belt fiber, rubber compound), and "design" refers to properties or conditions imposed by the tire mold (e.g., aspect ratio, tread pattern).

(B) Each tire manufactured on and after the effective date of these amendments, other than a tire sold as original equipment on a new vehicle, shall have affixed to its tread surface so as not to be easily removable a label or labels containing its grades and other information in the form illustrated in Figure 2, Parts I and II. The treadwear grade attributed to the tire shall be either imprinted or indelibly stamped on the label containing the material in Part I of Figure 2, directly to the right of or below the word "TREADWEAR." The traction grade attributed to the tire shall be indelibly circled in an array of the potential grade letters AA, A, B, or C, directly to the right of or below the word "TRACTION" in Part I of Figure 2. The temperature resistance grade attributed to the tire shall be indelibly circled in an array of the potential grade letters A, B, or C, directly to the right of or below the word "TEMPERATURE" in Part I of Figure 2. The words "TREADWEAR," "TRACTION," AND "TEMPERATURE," in that order, may be laid out vertically or horizontally. The text of Part II of Figure 2 may be printed in capital letters. The text of Part I and the text of Part II of Figure 2 need not appear on the same label, but the edges of the two texts must be positioned on the tire tread so as to be separated by a distance of no more than one inch. If the text of Part I and the text of Part II of Figure 2 are placed on separate labels, the notation "See EXPLANATION OF DOT QUALITY GRADES" shall be added to the bottom of the Part I text, and the words "EXPLANATION OF DOT QUALITY GRADES" shall appear at the top of the Part II text. The text of Figure 2 shall be oriented on the tire tread surface with lines of type running perpendicular to the tread circumference. If a label bearing a tire size designation is attached to the tire tread surface and the tire size designation is oriented with lines type running perpendicular to the tread circumference, the text of Figure 2 shall read in the same direction as the tire size designation.

(ii) In the case of the information required by ยง 575.6(c) to be furnished to prospective purchasers of tires, each tire manufacturer or brand name owner shall, as part of that information, list all possible grades for traction and temperature resistance, and restate verbatim the explanation for each performance area specified in Figure 2. The information need not be in the same format as in Figure 2. The information must indicate clearly and unambiguously the grade in each performance area for each tire of that manufacturer or brand name owner offered for sale at the particular location.

(iii) Each manufacturer of motor vehicles equipped with passenger car tires shall include in the owner's manual of each such vehicle a list of all possible grades for traction and temperature resistance and restate verbatim the explanation for each performance area specified in Figure 2, Part II. The information need not be in the exact format of Figure 2, Part II, but it must contain a statement referring the reader to the tire sidewall for the specific tire grades for the tires with which the vehicle is equipped, as follows:

Quality grades can be found where applicable on the tire sidewall between tread shoulder and maximum section width. For example:

(iv) In the case of information required in accordance with ยง 575.6(a) to be furnished to the first purchaser of a new motor vehicle, each manufacturer of motor vehicles shall, as part of the required information, list all possible grades for traction and temperature resistance and restate verbatim the explanation for each performance area specified in Figure 2 to this section. The information need not be in the format of Figure 2 to this section, but it must contain a statement referring the reader to the tire sidewall for the specific tire grades for the tires with which the vehicle is equipped.
