
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Regulations; Consumer Information Items
###### ยง 575.104 Uniform tire quality grading standards.
####### Treadwear grading procedure.

(2)(i) Equip a convoy as follows: Place four course monitoring tires on one vehicle. Place four candidate tires with identical size designations on each other vehicle in the convoy. On each axle, place tires that are identical with respect to manufacturer and line.

(ii) Inflate each candidate and each course monitoring tire to the applicable pressure specified in Table 1 of this section.

(iii) Load each vehicle so that the load on each course monitoring and candidate tire is 85 percent of the test load specified in ยง 575.104(h).

(iv) Adjust wheel alignment to the midpoint of the vehicle manufacturer's specifications, unless adjustment to the midpoint is not recommended by the manufacturer; in that case, adjust the alignment to the manufacturer's recommended setting. In all cases, the setting is within the tolerance specified by the manufacturer of the alignment machine.

(v) Subject candidate and course monitoring tires to "break-in" by running the tires in the convoy for two circuits of the test roadway (800 miles). At the end of the first circuit, rotate each vehicle's tires by moving each front tire to the same side of the rear axle and each rear tire to the opposite side of the front axle. Visually inspect each tire for any indication of abnormal wear, tread separation, bulging of the sidewall, or any sign of tire failure. Void the grading results from any tire with any of these anomalies, and replace the tire.

(vi) After break-in, allow the air pressure in the tires to fall to the applicable pressure specified in Table 1 of this section or for 2 hours, whichever occurs first. Measure, to the nearest 0.001 inch, the tread depth of each candidate and each course monitoring tire, avoiding treadwear indicators, at six equally spaced points in each groove. For each tire compute the average of the measurements. Do not measure those shoulder grooves which are not provided with treadwear indicators.

(vii) Adjust wheel alignment to the midpoint of the manufacturer's specifications, unless adjustment to the midpoint is not recommended by the manufacturer; in that case, adjust the alignment according to the manufacturer's recommended setting. In all cases, the setting is within the tolerance specified by the manufacturer of the alignment machine.

(viii) Drive the convoy on the test roadway for 16 circuits (approximately 6,400 miles).

(A) After every circuit (approximately 400 miles), rotate each vehicle's tires by moving each front tire to the same side of the rear axle and each rear tire to the opposite side of the front axle. Visually inspect each tire for treadwear anomalies.

(B) After every second circuit (approximately 800 miles), rotate the vehicles in the convoy by moving the last vehicle to the lead position. Do not rotate driver positions within the convoy. In four-car convoys, vehicle one shall become vehicle two, vehicle two shall become vehicle three, vehicle three shall become vehicle four, and vehicle four shall become vehicle one.

(C) After every second circuit (approximately 800 miles), if necessary, adjust wheel alignment to the midpoint of the vehicle manufacturer's specification, unless adjustment to the midpoint is not recommended by the manufacturer; in that case, adjust the alignment to the manufacturer's recommended setting. In all cases, the setting is within the tolerance specified by the manufacturer of the alignment machine.
