
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Regulations; Consumer Information Items
###### ยง 575.104 Uniform tire quality grading standards.
####### Procedure.

(2)(i) Prepare two standard tires as follows:

(A) Condition the tires by running them for 200 miles on a pavement surface.

(B) Mount each tire on a rim of design or measuring rim width specified for tires of its size in accordance with 49 CFR 571.109, S4.4.1 (a) or (b), or a rim having a width within -0 to + 0.50 inches of the width listed. Then inflate the tire to 24 psi, or, in the case of a tire with inflation pressure measured in kilopascals, to 180 kPa.

(C) Statically balance each tire-rim combination.

(D) Allow each tire to cool to ambient temperature and readjust its inflation pressure to 24 psi, or, in the case of a tire with inflation pressure measured in kilopascals, to 180 kPa.

(ii) Mount the tires on the test apparatus described in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section and load each tire to 1,085 pounds.

(iii) Tow the trailer on the asphalt test surface specified in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section at a speed of 40 mph, lock one trailer wheel, and record the locked-wheel traction coefficient on the tire associated with that wheel between 0.5 and 1.5 seconds after lockup.

(iv) Repeat the test on the concrete surface, locking the same wheel.

(v) Repeat the tests specified in paragraphs (f)(2) (iii) and (iv) of this section for a total of 10 measurements on each test surface.

(vi) Repeat the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(2) (iii) through (v) of this section, locking the wheel associated with the other tire.

(vii) Average the 20 measurements taken on the asphalt surface to find the standard tire traction coefficient for the asphalt surface. Average the 20 measurements taken on the concrete surface to find the standard tire traction coefficient for the concrete surface. The standard tire traction coefficient so determined may be used in the computation of adjusted traction coefficients for more than one candidate tire.

(viii) Prepare two candidate tires of the same construction type, manufacturer, line, and size designation in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, mount them on the test apparatus, and test one of them according to the procedures of paragraph (f)(2)(ii) through (v) of this section, except load each tire to 85% of the test load specified in ยง 575.104(h). For CT tires, the test inflation of candidate tires shall be 230 kPa. Candidate tire measurements may be taken either before or after the standard tire measurements used to compute the standard tire traction coefficient. Take all standard tire and candidate tire measurements used in computation of a candidate tire's adjusted traction coefficient within a single three hour period. Average the 10 measurements taken on the asphalt surface to find the candidate tire traction coefficient for the asphalt surface. Average the 10 measurements taken on the concrete surface to find the candidate tire traction coefficient for the concrete surface.

(ix) Compute a candidate tire's adjusted traction coefficient for asphalt (&#x3BC;) by the following formula:

(x) Compute a candidate tire's adjusted traction coefficient for concrete (&#x3BC;) by the following formula:
