
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Regulations; Consumer Information Items
###### ยง 575.104 Uniform tire quality grading standards.
####### Temperature resistance grading.

(g)(1) Mount the tire on a rim of design or measuring rim width specified for tires of its size in accordance with ยง 571.109, paragraph S4.4.1 (a) or (b) and inflate it to the applicable pressure specified in Table 1 of this section.

(2) Condition the tire-rim assembly to a temperature of 95 &#xB0;F for at least 3 hours.

(3) Adjust the pressure again to the applicable pressure specified in Table 1 of this section.

(4) Mount the tire-rim assembly on an axle, and press the tire tread against the surface of a flat-faced steel test wheel that is 67.23 inches in diameter and at least as wide as the section width of the tire.

(5) During the test, including the pressure measurements specified in paragraphs (g) (1) and (3) of this section, maintain the temperature of the ambient air, as measured 12 inches from the edge of the rim flange at any point on the circumference on either side of the tire at 95 &#xB0;F. Locate the temperature sensor so that its readings are not affected by heat radiation, drafts, variations in the temperature of the surrounding air, or guards or other devices.

(6) Press the tire against the test wheel with a load of 88 percent of the tire's maximum load rating as marked on the tire sidewall.

(7) Rotate the test wheel at 250 rpm for 2 hours.

(8) Remove the load, allow the tire to cool to 95 &#xB0;F or for 2 hours, whichever occurs last, and readjust the inflation pressure to the applicable pressure specified in Table 1 of this section.

(9) Reapply the load and without interruption or readjustment of inflation pressure, rotate the test wheel at 375 rpm for 30 minutes, and then at successively higher rates in 25 rpm increments, each for 30 minutes, until the tire has run at 575 rpm for 30 minutes, or to failure, whichever occurs first.
