
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Regulations; Consumer Information Items
###### ยง 575.105 Vehicle rollover.
####### Combined Rollover and Air Bag Alert Warning.

(5)If the warnings required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section and paragraph S4.5.1(b) of 49 CFR 571.208 to be affixed to the driver side sun visor are not visible when the sun visor is in the stowed position, a combined rollover and air bag alert label may be permanently affixed to that visor in lieu of the alert labels required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section and paragraph S4.5.1(c)(2) of 49 CFR 571.208. The combined rollover and air bag alert label must be visible when the visor is in the stowed position. The combined rollover and air bag alert warning must conform in content to the label shown in Figure 2 of this section, and must comply with the following requirements:

(i) The label must read:

(ii) The message area must be black with yellow text. The message area must be no less than 20 square cm.

(iii) The pictogram shall be black with a red circle and slash on a white background. The pictogram must be not less than 20 mm in diameter.

(6) At the option of the manufacturer, the requirements in paragraph (d)(1)(i) for labels that are permanently affixed to specified parts of the vehicle may instead be met by permanent marking and molding of the required information.
