
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart D - Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU); Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.301 Vehicle labeling of safety rating information (applicable unless a vehicle is subject to ยง 575.302).
####### Frontal Crash Area.

(4)(i) The frontal crash area must be placed immediately below the heading area and must have dark text and a light background. Both the driver and the right front passenger frontal crash test ratings must be displayed with the maximum star ratings achieved.

(ii) The words "Frontal Crash" must be in boldface, cover two lines, and be aligned to the left side of the label.

(iii) The word "Driver" must be on the same line as the word "Frontal" in "Frontal Crash," and be left justified, horizontally centered and vertically aligned at the top of the label. The achieved star rating for "Driver" must be on the same line, left justified, and aligned to the right side of the label.

(iv) If NHTSA has not released the star rating for the "Driver" position, the text "Not Rated" must be used in boldface. However, as an alternative, the words "To Be Rated" (in boldface) may be used if the manufacturer has received written notification from NHTSA that the vehicle has been chosen for NCAP testing. Both texts must be on the same line as the text "Driver", left justified, and aligned to the right side of the label.

(v) The word "Passenger" must be on the same line as the word "Crash" in "Frontal Crash," below the word "Driver," and be left justified, horizontally centered and vertically aligned at the top of the label. The achieved star rating for "Passenger" must be on the same line, left justified, and aligned to the right side of the label.

(vi) If NHTSA has not released the star rating for "Passenger," the words "Not Rated" must be used in boldface. However, as an alternative, the words "To Be Rated" (in boldface) may be used if the manufacturer has received written notification from NHTSA that the vehicle has been chosen for NCAP testing. Both texts must be on the same line as the text "Passenger", left justified, and aligned to the right side of the label.

(vii) The words "Star ratings based on the risk of injury in a frontal impact.", followed (on the next line) by the statement "Frontal ratings should ONLY be compared to other vehicles of similar size and weight." must be placed at the bottom of the frontal crash area.
