
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart D - Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU); Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.302 Vehicle labeling of safety rating information (compliance required for model year 2012 and later vehicles manufactured on or after January 31, 2012).
####### Side crash area.

(6)

(i) The side crash area must be immediately below the frontal crash area, separated by a dark line that is a minimum of three points in width. The text must be dark against a light background. Both the driver and the rear seat passenger side crash test rating must be displayed with the maximum star rating achieved.

(ii) The words "Side Crash" must cover two lines, and be aligned to the left side of the label in boldface.

(iii) The words "Front seat" must be on the same line as the word "Side" in "Side Crash" and be horizontally centered, left justified and vertically aligned to the top of the side crash area. The achieved star rating for "Front seat" must be on the same line as the words "Front seat" and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(iv) If NHTSA has not released the star rating for "Front Seat," the words "Not Rated" must be used in boldface. However, as an alternative, the words "To Be Rated" (in boldface) may be used if the manufacturer has received written notification from NHTSA that the vehicle has been chosen for NCAP testing. Both texts must be on the same line as the text "Front seat" and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(v) The words "Rear seat" must be on the same line as the word "Crash" in "Side Crash," below the word "Front seat," and be horizontally centered, left justified and vertically aligned to the top of the side crash area. The achieved star rating for "Rear seat" must be on the same line as the text "Rear seat" and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(vi) If NHTSA has not released the star rating for "Rear Seat," the text "Not Rated" must be used in boldface. However, as an alternative, the text "To Be Rated" (in boldface) may be used if the manufacturer has received written notification from NHTSA that the vehicle has been chosen for NCAP testing. Both texts must be on the same line as the text "Rear seat" and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(vii) The words "Based on the risk of injury in a side impact." must be placed at the bottom of the side crash area and left justified.
