
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart D - Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU); Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.302 Vehicle labeling of safety rating information (compliance required for model year 2012 and later vehicles manufactured on or after January 31, 2012).
####### Rollover area.

(7)

(i) The rollover area must be immediately below the side crash area, separated by a dark line that is a minimum of three points in width. The text must be dark against a light background. The rollover test rating must be displayed with the maximum star rating achieved.

(ii) The word "Rollover" must be aligned to the left side of the label in boldface. The achieved star rating must be on the same line and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(iii) If NHTSA has not tested the vehicle, the words "Not Rated" must be used in boldface. However, as an alternative, the words "To Be Rated" (in boldface) may be used if the manufacturer has received written notification from NHTSA that the vehicle has been chosen for NCAP testing. Both texts must be on the same line as the text "Rollover" and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(iv) The words "Based on the risk of rollover in a single-vehicle crash." must be placed at the bottom of the rollover area and left justified.
