
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart D - Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU); Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.302 Vehicle labeling of safety rating information (compliance required for model year 2012 and later vehicles manufactured on or after January 31, 2012).
####### Overall vehicle score area.

(4)

(i) The overall vehicle score area must be placed immediately below the heading area and must have dark text and a light background. The overall vehicle score rating must be displayed with the maximum star rating achieved.

(ii) The words "Overall Vehicle Score" must be in boldface aligned to the left side of the label. The achieved star rating must be on the same line and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(iii) The words "Based on the combined ratings of frontal, side and rollover" followed by the statement "Should ONLY be compared to other vehicles of similar size and weight" (on the following line) must be placed at the bottom of the overall vehicle score area and left justified.

(iv) If NHTSA has not released the star rating for the "Frontal Crash," "Side Crash," or "Rollover" area, the text "Not Rated" must be used in boldface. However, as an alternative, the words "To Be Rated" (in boldface) may be used if the manufacturer has received written notification from NHTSA that the vehicle has been chosen for the NCAP frontal, side, and/or rollover testing such that there will be ratings in all three areas.
