
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart D - Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU); Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.302 Vehicle labeling of safety rating information (compliance required for model year 2012 and later vehicles manufactured on or after January 31, 2012).
####### Frontal crash area.

(5)

(i) The frontal crash area must be placed immediately below the overall vehicle score area, separated by a dark line that is a minimum of three points in width. The text must be dark against a light background. Both the driver and the right front seat passenger frontal crash test ratings must be displayed with the maximum star ratings achieved.

(ii) The words "Frontal Crash" must be in boldface, cover two lines, and be aligned to the left side of the label.

(iii) The word "Driver" must be on the same line as the word "Frontal" in "Frontal Crash," and be horizontally centered, left justified and vertically aligned to the top of the frontal crash area. The achieved star rating for "Driver" must be on the same line and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(iv) If NHTSA has not released the star rating for the "Driver" position, the text "Not Rated" must be used in boldface. However, as an alternative, the words "To Be Rated" (in boldface) may be used if the manufacturer has received written notification from NHTSA that the vehicle has been chosen for NCAP testing. Both texts must be on the same line as the text "Driver" and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(v) The word "Passenger" must be on the same line as the word "Crash" in "Frontal Crash," below the word "Driver," and be horizontally centered, left justified and vertically aligned to the top of the frontal crash area. The achieved star rating for "Passenger" must be on the same line and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(vi) If NHTSA has not released the star rating for "Passenger," the words "Not Rated" must be used in boldface. However, as an alternative, the words "To Be Rated" (in boldface) may be used if the manufacturer has received written notification from NHTSA that the vehicle has been chosen for NCAP testing. Both texts must be on the same line as the text "Passenger" and be aligned to the right side of the label and left justified.

(vii) The words "Based on the risk of injury in a frontal impact." followed (on the next line) by the statement "Should ONLY be compared to other vehicles of similar size and weight." must be placed at the bottom of the frontal crash area and left justified.
