
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart E - Energy Independence and Security Act; Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.401 Vehicle labeling of fuel economy, greenhouse gas, and other pollutant emissions information.
####### Lower border, left side:,a,b,c,d,a,,b,,c,,d,

(iii)(A) In the upper left portion of the lower border, include the statement "Actual results will vary for many reasons, including driving conditions and how you drive and maintain your vehicle. The average new vehicle getsMPG and costs $to fuel over 5 years. Cost estimates are based onmiles per year at $per gallon. MPGe is miles per gasoline gallon equivalent. Vehicle emissions are a significant cause of climate change and smog." For the value ofinsert the average new vehicle combined MPG value for that model year established by EPA. For the value ofinsert the estimated five year fuel cost value established by EPA for the average new vehicle in that model year. For the value ofinsert the annual mileage rate established by EPA. For the value ofinsert the estimated cost per gallon established by EPA for gasoline or diesel fuel, as appropriate. See paragraphs (f) through (j) below for alternate statements that apply for vehicles that use a fuel other than gasoline or diesel fuel.

(B) In the lower left portion of the lower border, include the Web site reference, "fueleconomy.gov," and include the following statement: "Calculate personalized estimates and compare vehicles" beneath it.
