
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart E - Energy Independence and Security Act; Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.401 Vehicle labeling of fuel economy, greenhouse gas, and other pollutant emissions information.
####### Fuel economy performance and fuel cost values.

(5)To the left side in the white field at the top of the label, include the following elements for vehicles that run on gasoline or diesel fuel with no plug-in capability:

(i) The heading "Fuel Economy" near the top left corner of the field.

(ii) The vehicle's combined fuel economy determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.210-12(c) in large font, with the words "combined city/hwy" below the number in smaller font.

(iii) A fuel pump logo to the left of the combined fuel economy value (for diesel fuel, include a fuel pump logo with a "D" inscribed in the base of the fuel pump).

(iv) The units identifier and specific fuel economy values to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:

(A) Include the word "MPG" to the upper right of the combined fuel economy value.

(B) Include the value for the city and highway fuel economy determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.210-12(a) and (b) to the right of the combined fuel economy value in smaller font, and below the word "MPG." Include the expression "city" in smaller font below the city fuel economy value, and the expression "highway" in smaller font below the highway fuel economy value.

(v) Below the fuel economy performance values set forth in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii) and (iv) of this section, include the value for the fuel consumption rate required by EPA and determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.302-12(c)(1).

(vi) To the right of the word "MPG" described in paragraph (e)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, include the information about the range of fuel economy of comparable vehicles as required by EPA and set forth in 40 CFR 600.302-12(c)(2) and below that information, include the expression "The best vehicle rates 99 MPGe."
