
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart E - Energy Independence and Security Act; Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.401 Vehicle labeling of fuel economy, greenhouse gas, and other pollutant emissions information.
####### Fuel economy and environment slider bar ratings.

(8)In the field in the lower right portion of the label,

(i) Include the heading "Fuel Economy & Greenhouse Gas Rating (tailpipe only)" in the top left corner of the field.

(ii) Include a slider bar in the left portion of the field as shown in the appendix to this section to characterize the vehicle's fuel economy and COemission rating relative to the range of fuel economy and COemission rates for all vehicles. Position a black box with a downward-pointing wedge above the slider bar positioned to show where that vehicle's fuel economy and COemission rating falls relative to the total range. Include the vehicle's fuel economy and COemission rating determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.311-12(d) inside the box in white text. If the fuel economy and COemission ratings are different, the black box with a downward-pointing wedge above the slider bar must contain the fuel economy rating, with a second upward-pointing wedge below the slider bar containing the COemission rating. Include the number "1" in white text in the black border at the left end of the slider bar, and include the number "10" in white text in the black border at the right end of the slider bar, with the expression "Best" in black text under the slider bar directly below the "10." Add color to the slider bar such that it is blue at the left end of the range, white at the right end of the range, and shaded continuously across the range.

(iii) Include the heading "Smog Rating (tailpipe only)" in the top right corner of the field.

(iv) Include a slider bar in the right portion of the field to characterize the vehicle's level of emission control for other air pollutants relative to that of all vehicles. Position a black box with a downward-pointing wedge above the slider bar positioned to show where that vehicle's emission rating falls relative to the total range. Include the vehicle's emission rating determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.311-12(g) inside the box in white text. Include the number "1" in white text in the black border at the left end of the slider bar, and include the number "10" in white text in the black border at the right end of the slider bar, with the expression "Best" in black text under the slider bar directly below the "10." Add color to the slider bar such that it is blue at the left end of the range, white at the right end of the range, and shaded continuously across the range.
