
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart E - Energy Independence and Security Act; Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.401 Vehicle labeling of fuel economy, greenhouse gas, and other pollutant emissions information.
####### a,b,c,d,e,a,,b,,c,,d,,e,

(2) Include the following statement in the upper left portion of the lower border instead of the statement specified in paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section: "Actual results will vary for many reasons, including driving conditions and how you drive and maintain your vehicle. The average new vehicle getsMPG and costs $to fuel over 5 years. Cost estimates are based onmiles per year at $per gallon and $per kW-hr. This is a dual fueled automobile. MPGe is miles per gasoline gallon equivalent. Vehicle emissions are a significant cause of climate change and smog." For the value ofinsert the average new vehicle combined MPG value for that model year established by EPA. For the value ofinsert the estimated five year fuel cost value established by EPA for the average new vehicle in that model year. For the value ofinsert the annual mileage rate established by EPA. For the value ofinsert the estimated cost per gallon established by EPA for gasoline. For the value ofinsert the estimated cost per kW-hr of electricity established by EPA.

(3) Include the following elements instead of the information identified above in paragraph (e)(5):

(i) The heading "Fuel Economy" near the top left corner of the field.

(ii) An outlined box below the heading with the following information:

(A) The sub-heading "Electricity" if the vehicle's engine starts only after the battery is fully discharged, or the sub-heading "Electricity + Gasoline" if the vehicle uses combined power from the battery and the engine before the battery is fully discharged.

(B) The expression "Charge Time: x hours (240 V)," as required by EPA and as set forth in 40 CFR 600.308-12(b)(2)(ii).

(C) The vehicle's combined fuel economy determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.210-12(c) in large font, with the words "combined city/hwy" below the number in smaller font.

(D) An electric plug logo as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(A) of this section to the left of the combined fuel economy value. For vehicles that use combined power from the battery and the engine before the battery is fully discharged, also include the fuel pump logo as shown in the appendix to this section.

(E) The units identifier and specific fuel economy values to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:
