
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart E - Energy Independence and Security Act; Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.401 Vehicle labeling of fuel economy, greenhouse gas, and other pollutant emissions information.
####### Required label information and format-flexible-fuel vehicles.

(f)(1) Fuel economy and environment labels for flexible-fuel vehicles must meet the specifications described in paragraph (e) of this section, with the exceptions and additional specifications described in this paragraph (f). This section describes how to label vehicles with gasoline engines. If the vehicle has a diesel engine, all the references to "gas" or "gasoline" in this section are understood to refer to "diesel" or "diesel fuel," respectively.

(2) For qualifying vehicles, include the following additional expression in the statement identified in paragraph (e)(iv)(3)(A) of this section as shown in the appendix to this section: "This is a dual fueled automobile."

(3) Include the following elements instead of the information identified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section:

(i) The heading "Fuel Economy" near the top left corner of the field.

(ii) The vehicle's combined fuel economy as set forth in 40 CFR 600.210-12(c) in large font, with the words "combined city/hwy" below the number in smaller font.

(iii) A fuel pump logo and other logos as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(A) of this section to the left of the combined fuel economy value.

(iv) The units identifier and specific fuel economy values to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:

(A) Include the word "MPG" to the upper right of the combined fuel economy value.

(B) Include the value for the city and highway fuel economy determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.210-12(a) and (b) to the right of the combined fuel economy value in smaller font, and below the word "MPG." Include the expression "city" in smaller font below the city fuel economy value, and the expression "highway" in smaller font below the highway fuel economy value.

(v) Below the fuel economy performance value set forth in paragraph (f)(iii)(2) of this section, include the value for the fuel consumption rate required by EPA and determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.302-12(c)(1).

(vi) To the right of the word "MPG" described in paragraph (e)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, include the information about the range of fuel economy of comparable vehicles as required by EPA and set forth in 40 CFR 600.302-12(c)(2), and below that information, include the expression "The best vehicle rates 99 MPGe. Values are based on gasoline and do not reflect performance and ratings based on E85." Adjust this statement as appropriate for vehicles designed to operate on different fuels.

(vii) Below the combined fuel economy value, the manufacturer may include information on the vehicle's driving range as shown in the appendix to this section, with the sub-heading "Driving Range," and with range bars below this sub-heading as required by EPA and set forth in 40 CFR 600.303-12(b)(6).
