
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 575 - CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart E - Energy Independence and Security Act; Consumer Information
###### ยง 575.401 Vehicle labeling of fuel economy, greenhouse gas, and other pollutant emissions information.
####### a,b,c,e,a,,b,,c,,e,

(2) Include the following statement in the upper left portion of the lower border instead of the statement specified above in paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section: "Actual results will vary for many reasons, including driving conditions and how you drive and maintain your vehicle. The average new vehicle getsMPG and costs $to fuel over 5 years. Cost estimates are based onmiles per year at $per kW-hr. MPGe is miles per gasoline gallon equivalent. Vehicle emissions are a significant cause of climate change and smog." For the value ofinsert the average new vehicle combined MPG value for that model year established by EPA. For the value ofinsert the estimated five year fuel cost value established by EPA for the average new vehicle in that model year. For the value ofinsert the annual mileage rate established by EPA. For the value ofinsert the estimated cost per kW-hr of electricity established by EPA.

(3) Include the following elements instead of the information identified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section:

(i) The heading "Fuel Economy" near the top left corner of the field.

(ii) The vehicle's combined fuel economy determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.210-12(c) in large font, with the words "combined city/hwy" below the number in smaller font.

(iii) The electric plug logo as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(A) of this section to the left of the combined fuel economy value.

(iv) The units identifier and specific fuel economy values to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:

(A) Include the word "MPGe" to the upper right of the combined fuel economy value.

(B) Include the value for the city and highway fuel economy determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.311-12(a) and (b) to the right of the combined fuel economy value in smaller font, and below the word "MPGe." Include the expression "city" in smaller font below the city fuel economy value, and the expression "highway" in smaller font below the highway fuel economy value.

(v) To the right of the fuel economy performance values described in paragraph (iv)(B) of this section, include the value for the fuel consumption rate required by EPA and determined as set forth in 40 CFR 600.310-12(b)(5).

(vi) Below the combined fuel economy value, include information on the vehicle's driving range as shown in the appendix to this section, as required by EPA and as set forth in 40 CFR 600.310-12(b)(6).

(vii) Below the driving range information and left-justified, include information on the vehicle's charge time, as required by EPA and as set forth in 40 CFR 600.310-12(b)(7).

(4) Include the following statement instead of the statement identified in paragraph (e)(8)(v) of this section: "This vehicle emits 0 grams COper mile. The best emits 0 grams per mile (tailpipe only). Does not include emissions from generating electricity; learn more at fueleconomy.gov."
