
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 577 - DEFECT AND NONCOMPLIANCE NOTIFICATION
##### ยง 577.5 Notification pursuant to a manufacturer's decision.
###### 2

() (In the case of tires) after the date specified in the notification on which replacement tires will be available.

(2) When the manufacturer is not required to remedy the defect or noncompliance without charge and he will not voluntarily so remedy, the statement shall include-

(i) A statement that the manufacturer is not required by the Act to remedy without charge.

(ii) A statement of the extent to which the manufacturer will voluntarily remedy, including the method of remedy and any limitations and conditions imposed by the manufacturer on such remedy.

(iii) The manufacturer's opinion whether the defect or noncompliance can be remedied by repair. If the manufacturer believes that repair is possible, the statement shall include the information specified in paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section, except that;

(A) The statement required by paragraph (g)(1)(iv)(A) of this section shall also indicate the suggested list price of each part.

(B) The statement required by paragraph (g)(1)(iv)(C) of this section shall also indicate the manufacturer's estimate of the date on which the parts will be generally available.

(h) Any lessor who receives a notification of a determination of a safety-related defect or noncompliance pertaining to any leased motor vehicle shall send a copy of such notice to the lessee as prescribed by ยง 577.7(a)(2)(iv). This requirement applies to both initial and follow-up notifications, but does not apply where the manufacturer has notified a lessor's lessees directly.
