
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 577 - DEFECT AND NONCOMPLIANCE NOTIFICATION
##### ยง 577.14 Labeling for owner notification letter envelope.
###### Required label information and format.

(b)(1) The label depicted in this section must be printed on the front of the safety recall owner notification envelope. The content, format, and sequence of this label are depicted in Figure 1 of this section. A Spanish version of this label, for owners located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or the Canal Zone, can be found in Figure 2 of this section.

(2) The text "IMPORTANT SAFETY RECALL INFORMATION" must be printed in capital letters, have a minimum font size of 10 point, and be printed in white text on a red background. Also, this text must be centered horizontally and located near the top of the label. The text "Issued in Accordance With Federal Law" must have a minimum font size of 10 point, be printed in black text on a white background, and be located directly beneath the preceding text, also centered horizontally within the label.

(3) The logo of the U.S. Department of Transportation must be located at the bottom, left-hand corner of the label. The logo of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration must be located at the bottom, right-hand corner of the label. Each logo should be printed in black color with a white background.
