
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 579 - REPORTING OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS ABOUT POTENTIAL DEFECTS
##### Subpart C - Reporting of Early Warning Information
###### ยง 579.21 Reporting requirements for manufacturers of 5,000 or more light vehicles annually.
####### Numbers of property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports.

(c)Separate reports on the numbers of those property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, and field reports which involve the systems and components that are specified in codes 01 through 22, or 25 through 28 in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or a fire (code 23), or rollover (code 24). Each such report shall state, separately by each such code, the number of such property damage claims, consumer complaints, warranty claims, or field reports, respectively, that involves the systems or components or fire or rollover indicated by the code. If an underlying property damage claim, consumer complaint, warranty claim, or field report involves more than one such code, each shall be reported separately in the report with no limit on the number of codes to be included. No reporting is necessary if the system or component involved is not specified in such codes, and the incident did not involve a fire or rollover. For each report, the manufacturer shall separately state the vehicle type and fuel and/or propulsion system type if the manufacturer stated more than one vehicle type or fuel and/or propulsion system type for a particular make, model, model year in paragraph (a) of this section. For each report, the manufacturer shall separately state the vehicle type and fuel and/or propulsion system type if the manufacturer stated more than one vehicle type or fuel and/or propulsion system type for a particular make, model, model year in paragraph (a) of this section. If a vehicle manufacturer is unaware of the vehicle type at the time it receives the property damage claim, consumer complaint, warranty claim or field report, the manufacturer shall use the abbreviation "UN" in its report to indicate that the vehicle type is unknown.
