
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 579 - REPORTING OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS ABOUT POTENTIAL DEFECTS
##### Subpart C - Reporting of Early Warning Information
###### § 579.28 Due date of reports and other miscellaneous provisions.
####### Updating of information required in reports.

(f)(1) Except as specified in this subsection, a manufacturer need not update its reports under this subpart.

(2) With respect to each report of an incident submitted under paragraph (b) of §§ 579.21 through 579.26 of this part:

(i) If a vehicle manufacturer is not aware of the VIN, or a tire manufacturer is not aware of the TIN, at the time the incident is initially reported, the manufacturer shall submit an updated report of such incident in its report covering the reporting period in which the VIN or TIN is identified. A manufacturer need not submit an updated report if the VIN or TIN is identified by the manufacturer in a reporting period that is more than one year later than the initial report to NHTSA.

(ii) If a manufacturer indicated code 99 in its report because a system or component had not been identified in the claim or notice that led to the report, and the manufacturer becomes aware during a subsequent calendar quarter that one or more of the specified systems or components allegedly contributed to the incident, the manufacturer shall submit an updated report of such incident in its report covering the reporting period in which the involved specified system(s) or component(s) is (are) identified. A manufacturer need not submit an updated report if the system(s) or component(s) is(are) identified by the manufacturer in a reporting period that is more than one year later than the initial report to NHTSA.

(iii) If one or more systems or components is identified in a manufacturer's report of an incident, the manufacturer need not submit an updated report to reflect additional systems or components allegedly involved in the incident that it becomes aware of in a subsequent reporting period.

(iv) If the report is of an incident involving an injury and an injured person dies after a manufacturer has reported the injury to NHTSA, the manufacturer need not submit an updated report to NHTSA reflecting that death.
