
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 580 - ODOMETER DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 580.7 Disclosure of odometer information for leased motor vehicles.

(a) Before executing any transfer of ownership document, each lessor of a leased motor vehicle shall notify the lessee electronically or in writing stating that the lessee is required to provide a written or electronic disclosure to the lessor regarding the mileage. This written or electronic notice shall contain a reference to the federal law and shall state failure to complete the disclosure or providing false information may result in fines and/or imprisonment. Reference may also be made to applicable law of the jurisdiction. If the notice is electronic, the information specified in this paragraph shall be displayed prior to, or at the time of, the execution of any electronic signatures.

(b) In connection with the transfer of ownership of the leased motor vehicle, the lessee shall furnish to the lessor a written or electronic statement regarding the mileage of the vehicle. This statement must be signed by the lessee. This statement, in addition to the lessee acknowledging receiving notification of federal law and any applicable law of the jurisdiction as required by paragraph (a) of this section, shall also contain the following information:

(1) The printed name of the person making the disclosure;

(2) The current odometer reading (not to include tenths of miles);

(3) The date of the statement;

(4) The lessee's printed name and current address;

(5) The lessor's printed name and current address;

(6) The identity of the vehicle, including its make, model, year, and body type, and its vehicle identification number;

(7) The date that the lessor notified the lessee of disclosure requirements;

(8) The date that the completed disclosure statement was received by the lessor; and

(9) The signature of the lessor.

(c) In addition to the information provided under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section,

(1) The lessee shall certify that to the best of his knowledge the odometer reading reflects the actual mileage; or

(2) If the lessee knows that the odometer reading reflects the amount of mileage in excess of the designed mechanical odometer limit, he shall include a statement to that effect; or

(3) If the lessee knows that the odometer reading differs from the mileage and that the difference is greater than that caused by odometer calibration error, he shall include a statement that the odometer reading is not the actual mileage and should not be relied upon.

(d) If the lessor transfers the leased vehicle without obtaining possession of it, the lessor may indicate on the title the mileage disclosed by the lessee under paragraph (b) and (c) of this section, unless the lessor has reason to believe that the disclosure by the lessee does not reflect the actual mileage of the vehicle.

(e) Any electronic system maintained by a lessor for the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section shall meet the requirements of ยง 580.4(b) of this part.
