
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 580 - ODOMETER DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
##### § 580.5 Disclosure of odometer information.

(a) At the time a physical or electronic title is issued or made available to the transferee, it must contain the mileage disclosed by the transferor when ownership of the vehicle was transferred and contain a space for the information required to be disclosed under paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section at the time of future transfer.

(b) Any physical documents which are used to reassign a title shall contain a space for the information required to be disclosed under paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section at the time of transfer of ownership.

(c) In connection with the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the transferor shall disclose the mileage to the transferee on the physical or electronic title or, except as noted below, on the physical document being used to reassign the title. In the case of a transferor in whose name the vehicle is titled, the transferor shall disclose the mileage on the electronic title or the physical title, and not on a reassignment document. This disclosure must be signed by the transferor and must contain the transferor's printed name. In connection with the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle in which more than one person is a transferor, only one transferor need sign the disclosure. In addition to the signature of the transferor, the disclosure must contain the following information:

(1) The odometer reading at the time of transfer (not to include tenths of miles);

(2) The date of transfer;

(3) The transferor's printed name and current address;

(4) The transferee's printed name and current address; and

(5) The identity of the vehicle, including its make, model, year, body type, and vehicle identification number.

(d) In addition to the information provided under paragraph (c) of this section, the physical document shall provide a statement referencing federal law and stating failure to complete the disclosure or providing false information may result in fines and/or imprisonment. Reference may also be made to applicable law of the jurisdiction. If the transaction at issue is electronic, the information specified in this paragraph shall be displayed, prior to the execution of any electronic signatures.

(e) In addition to the information provided under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:

(1) The transferor shall certify that to the best of their knowledge the odometer reading reflects the actual mileage, or;

(2) If the transferor knows that the odometer reading reflects the amount of mileage in excess of the designed mechanical odometer limit, they shall include a statement that the mileage exceeds mechanical limits; or

(3) If the transferor knows that the odometer reading does not reflect a valid mileage display or differs from the mileage and that the difference is greater than that caused by odometer calibration error, they shall include a statement that the odometer reading does not reflect the actual mileage, and should not be relied upon. This statement shall also include a warning notice to alert the transferee that a discrepancy exists between the odometer reading and the actual mileage.

(f) Upon receipt of the transferor's signed disclosure statement, the transferee shall sign the disclosure statement, which shall include their printed name, and make copy available to their transferor. If the disclosure is on an electronic title, the jurisdiction shall provide a means for making copies of the completed disclosure statement available to the transferee and transferor.

(g) If the vehicle has not been titled the written disclosure shall be executed on a separate physical document or by electronic means and incorporated into the electronic title record. A separate physical reassignment document may be used for a subsequent reassignment only after a transferor holding title has made the mileage disclosure in conformance with paragraphs (c), (e), and (f) of this section on the title and assigned the physical title to their transferee. An electronic title system shall provide a means for making mileage disclosures upon assignment and reassignment electronically and incorporating these disclosures into the electronic title. A physical reassignment document shall not be used with an electronic title or when an electronic reassignment has been made. In instances where a paper title is held by the initial transferor, an available electronic reassignment may be used for a subsequent reassignment after a transferor holding title has made the mileage disclosure in conformance with paragraphs (c), (e), and (f) of this section on the title and assigned the physical title to their transferee.

(h) No person shall sign an odometer disclosure statement as both the transferor and transferee in the same transaction, unless permitted by §§ 580.13 or 580.14.
