
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 580 - ODOMETER DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
##### Appendix A to Part 580 - Secure Printing Processes and Other Secure Processes

1. Methods to deter or detect counterfeiting and/or unauthorized reproduction.

(a) Intaglio printing-a printing process utilized in the production of bank-notes and other security documents whereby an engraved plate meets the paper under extremely high pressure forcing the paper into the incisions below the surface of the plate.

(b) Intaglio Printing With Latent Images-a printing process utilized in the production of bank-notes and other security documents whereby an engraved plate meets the paper under extremely high pressure forcing the paper into the incisions below the surface of the plate. The three dimensional nature of intaglio printing creates latent images that aid in verification of authenticity and deter counterfeiting.

(c) High Resolution Printing-a printing process which achieves excellent art clarity and detail quality approaching that of the intaglio process.

(d) Micro-line Printing-a reduced line of type that appears to be a solid line to the naked eye but contains readable intelligence under strong magnification.

(e) Pantograph Void Feature-wording incorporated into a pantograph by varying screen density in the pantograph. The wording will appear when attempts are made to photocopy on color copiers.

(f) Hologram-a defraction foil substrate, produced from a negative which was made by splitting a laser beam into two separate beams to produce a three dimensional effect.

(g) Security Paper-paper containing a security watermark and/or a security thread.

2. Methods to allow alterations to be visible to the naked eye.

(a) Erasure Sensitive Background Inks-a process whereby the text is printed in a dark color ink over a fine line erasure-sensitive prismatic ink tint.

(b) Security Lamination-retro-reflective security laminate is placed over vital information after it has been entered to allow for detection of attempts to alter this information.

(c) Security Paper-paper which has been chemically treated to detect chemical alterations.
