
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 580 - ODOMETER DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 580.13 Disclosure of odometer information by power of attorney.

(a) If otherwise permitted by the law of the jurisdiction, the transferor may grant a power of attorney to their transferee for the purpose of mileage disclosure under one of the following conditions:

(1) The transferor's physical title is held by a lienholder; or

(2) The transferor's physical title is lost; or

(3) The transferor's electronic title is held or controlled by a lienholder; or

(4) The transferor's electronic title cannot be accessed.

(b) The physical or electronic power of attorney shall contain, in part A, a space for the information required to be disclosed under paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section. If a state permits the use of a physical or electronic power of attorney in the situation described in ยง 580.14(a), the power of attorney must also contain, in part B, a space for the information required to be disclosed under ยง 580.14, and, in part C, a space for the certification required to be made under ยง 580.15.

(c) In connection with the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle as described in paragraph (a) of this section, where the transferor elects to give their transferee a physical or electronic power of attorney for the purpose of mileage disclosure, the transferor must appoint the transferee their attorney-in-fact for the purpose of mileage disclosure and disclose the mileage on the physical or electronic power of attorney form issued by the jurisdiction in which the transfer occurs. This disclosure must be signed by the transferor, including the printed name, and contain the following information:

(1) The odometer reading at the time of transfer (not to include tenths of miles);

(2) The date of transfer;

(3) The transferor's printed name and current address;

(4) The transferee's printed name and current address; and

(5) The identity of the vehicle, including its make, model, year, body type, and vehicle identification number.

(d) In addition to the information provided under paragraph (c) of this section, the physical or electronic power of attorney form shall refer to the federal odometer law and state that providing false information or the failure of the person granted the power of attorney to submit the form to the jurisdiction may result in fines and/or imprisonment. Reference may also be made to applicable law of the jurisdiction.

(e) In addition to the information provided under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:

(1) The transferor shall certify that to the best of their knowledge the odometer reading reflects the actual mileage; or

(2) If the transferor knows that the odometer reading reflects mileage in excess of the designed mechanical odometer limit, they shall include a statement to that the mileage exceeds mechanical limits; or

(3) If the transferor knows the odometer reading differs from the mileage and the difference is greater than that caused by a calibration error or does not reflect a valid mileage display, they shall include a statement that the odometer reading does not reflect the actual mileage and should not be relied upon. This statement shall also include a warning notice to alert the transferee that a discrepancy exists between the odometer reading and the actual mileage.

(f) The transferee shall sign the physical or electronic power of attorney, which shall include their printed name, and make a copy of the power of attorney form available to the transferor.

(g) Upon receipt of the transferor's physical or electronic title, the transferee shall complete the space for mileage disclosure on the title exactly as the mileage was disclosed by the transferor on the physical or electronic power of attorney. The transferee shall submit the physical or electronic power of attorney to the jurisdiction that issued it with the actual physical or electronic title when the transferee submits a new title application. The jurisdiction shall retain the physical or electronic power of attorney form and physical or electronic title for a minimum of three years or a period equal to the state titling record retention period, whichever is shorter. If the mileage disclosed on the physical or electronic power of attorney is lower than the mileage appearing on the physical or electronic title, the power of attorney is void and the transferee shall not complete the mileage disclosure on the title unless:

(1) The transferor has included a statement that the mileage exceeds mechanical limits; or

(2) The transferor has included a statement that the odometer reading does not reflect the actual mileage.

(h) A jurisdiction may permit submission of a physical power of attorney in an electronic format such as by scanning or imaging.
