
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 580 - ODOMETER DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 580.8 Odometer disclosure statement retention.

(a) Dealers and distributors of motor vehicles who are required by this part to execute an odometer disclosure statement shall retain, except as noted in paragraph (d), for five years a photostat, carbon, other facsimile copy, or electronic copy of each odometer mileage statement, which they issue and receive. They shall retain all odometer disclosure statements at their primary place of business in an order appropriate to business requirements and that permits systematic retrieval. Electronic copies shall be retained in a format which cannot be altered and which indicates any attempts to alter it.

(b) Lessors shall retain, for five years following the date they transfer ownership of the leased vehicle, each written or electronic odometer disclosure statement which they receive from a lessee. They shall retain all odometer disclosure statements at their primary place of business in an order that is appropriate to business requirements and that permits systematic retrieval. Electronic copies shall be retained in a format which cannot be altered and which indicates any attempts to alter it.

(c) Dealers and distributors of motor vehicles who are granted a power of attorney, except as noted in paragraph (d) of this section, by their transferor pursuant to ยง 580.13, or by their transferee pursuant to ยง 580.14, shall retain for five years a photostat, carbon, or other facsimile copy, or electronic copy of each power of attorney they receive. They shall retain all powers of attorney at their primary place of business in an order that is appropriate to business requirements and that permits systematic retrieval. Electronic copies shall be retained in a format which cannot be altered and which indicates any unauthorized attempts to alter it.

(d) Any odometer disclosure statement made on an electronic title or electronic power of attorney shall be retained by the jurisdiction for a minimum of five years and made available upon request to dealers, distributors, and lessors for retrieval at their principal place of business and inspection on demand by law enforcement officials. Dealers, distributors, and lessors are not required to, but may, retain a copy of an odometer disclosure statement made on an electronic title or electronic power of attorney.
