
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 580 - ODOMETER DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
##### Appendix E to Part 580 - Power of Attorney Disclosure Form

This form may be used only when title is physically held by lienholder or has been lost. This form must be submitted to the state by the person exercising powers of attorney. Failure to do so may result in fines and/or imprisonment.

VEHICLE DESCRIPTION

Year ________ Make ______________

Model ______________ Body Type ______________

Vehicle Identification Number ________________________

Federal law (and State Law, if applicable) requires that you state the mileage upon transfer of ownership. Providing a false statement may result in fines and/or imprisonment.

I state that the odometer now reads ____________ (no tenths) miles and to the best of my knowledge that it reflects the actual mileage unless one of the following statements is checked.

____ (1) I hereby certify that to the best of my knowledge the odometer reading reflect the mileage in excess of its mechanical limits.

____ (2) I hereby certify that the odometer reading is NOT the actual mileage. WARNING-ODOMETER DISCREPANCY.

(Part B is invalid unless Part A has been completed.)

Federal law (and State Law, if applicable) requires that you state the mileage upon transfer of ownership. Providing a false statement may result in fines and/or imprisonment.

I, ____________________ (transferor's name, Print) state that the odometer now reads ____________ (no tenths) miles and to the best of my knowledge that it reflects the actual mileage unless one of the following statements is checked.

____ (1) I hereby certify that to the best of my knowledge the odometer reading reflect the mileage in excess of its mechanical limits.

____ (2) I hereby certify that the odometer reading is NOT the actual mileage. WARNING-ODOMETER DISCREPANCY.

(To Be Completed When parts A and B Have Been Used)

I, ________________, (person exercising above powers of attorney, Print), hereby certify that the mileage I have disclosed on the title document is consistent with that provided to me in the above power of attorney. Further, upon examination of the title and any reassignment documents for the vehicle described above, the mileage diclosure I have made on the title pursuant to the power of attorney is greater than that previously stated on the title and reassignment documents. This certification is not intended to create, nor does it create any new or additional liability under Federal or State law.
