
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 583 - AUTOMOBILE PARTS CONTENT LABELING
##### ยง 583.5 Label requirements.
###### Explanatory note.

(6)A statement which explains that parts content does not include final assembly, distribution, or other non-parts costs.

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) of this section, the label required under paragraph (a) of this section shall read as follows, with the specified information inserted in the places indicated (except that if there are no major sources of foreign parts content, omit the section "Major Sources of Foreign Parts Content"):

(c) The percentages required to be provided under paragraph (a) of this section may be rounded by the manufacturer to the nearest 5 percent.

(d) The label required by paragraph (a) of this section shall:

(1) Be placed in a prominent location on each vehicle where it can be read from the exterior of the vehicle with the doors closed, and may be either part of the Monroney price information label required by 15 U.S.C. 1232, part of the fuel economy label required by 15 U.S.C. 2006, or a separate label. A separate label may include other consumer information.

(2)(i) Be printed in letters that have a color that contrasts with the background of the label; and

(ii) Have the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section vertically centered on the label in boldface capital letters and numerals of 12 point size or larger; and

(iii) Have the information required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section in type that is two points smaller than the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(3) In the case of a label that is included as part of the Monroney price information label or fuel economy label, or a separate label that includes other consumer information, be separated from all other information on those labels by a solid line that is a minimum of three points in width.

(4) The information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section shall be immediately preceded by the words, "PARTS CONTENT INFORMATION," in boldface, capital letters that are 12 point size or larger.
