
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 583 - AUTOMOBILE PARTS CONTENT LABELING
##### ยง 583.6 Procedure for determining U.S./Canadian parts content.
###### Determining the U.S./Canadian percentage of the value of items of equipment.

(c)(1) Equipment supplied by an outside supplier to a manufacturer or allied supplier is considered:

(i) 100 percent U.S./Canadian, if 70 percent or more of its value is added in the United States and/or Canada; and

(ii) To otherwise have the actual percent of its value added in the United States and/or Canada, rounded to the nearest five percent.

(2) The extent to which an item of equipment supplied by an allied supplier is considered U.S./Canadian is determined by dividing the value added in the United States and/or Canada by the total value of the equipment. The resulting number is multiplied by 100 to determine the percentage U.S./Canadian content of the equipment.

(3) In determining the value added in the United States and/or Canada of equipment supplied by an allied supplier, any equipment that is delivered to the allied supplier by an outside supplier and is incorporated into the allied supplier's equipment, is considered:

(i) 100 percent U.S./Canadian, if at least 70 percent of its value is added in the United States and/or Canada; and

(ii) To otherwise have the actual percent of its value added in the United States and/or Canada, rounded to the nearest five percent.

(4)(i) Value added in the United States and/or Canada by an allied supplier or outside supplier includes-

(A) The value added in the U.S. and/or Canada for materials used by the supplier, determined according to (4)(ii) for outside suppliers and (4)(iii) for allied suppliers, plus,

(B) For passenger motor vehicle equipment assembled or produced in the U.S. or Canada, the value of the difference between the price paid by the manufacturer or allied supplier for the equipment, as delivered to its factory or plant, and the total value of the materials in the equipment.

(ii) Outside suppliers of passenger motor vehicle equipment will determine the value added in the U.S. and/or Canada for materials in the equipment as specified in paragraphs (A) and (B).
