
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 583 - AUTOMOBILE PARTS CONTENT LABELING
##### ยง 583.6 Procedure for determining U.S./Canadian parts content.
###### Alternative calculation procedures.

(e)(1) A manufacturer may submit a petition to use calculation procedures based on representative or statistical sampling, as an alternative to the calculation procedures specified in this section to determine U.S./Canadian parts content and major sources of foreign parts content.

(2) Each petition must-

(i) Be submitted at least 120 days before the manufacturer would use the alternative procedure;

(ii) Be written in the English language;

(iii) Be submitted in three copies to: Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590;

(iv) State the full name and address of the manufacturer;

(v) Set forth in full the data, views and arguments of the manufacturer that would support granting the petition, including-

(A) the alternative procedure, and

(B) analysis demonstrating that the alternative procedure will produce substantially equivalent results to the procedure set forth in this section;

(vi) Specify and segregate any part of the information and data submitted in the petition that is requested to be withheld from public disclosure in accordance with part 512 of this chapter (the basic alternative procedure and basic supporting analysis must be provided as public information, but confidential business information may also be used in support of the petition).

(3) The NHTSA publishes in theaffording opportunity for comment, a notice of each petition containing the information required by this part. A copy of the petition is placed in the public docket. However, if NHTSA finds that a petition does not contain the information required by this part, it so informs the petitioner, pointing out the areas of insufficiency and stating that the petition will not receive further consideration until the required information is submitted.

(4) If the Administrator determines that the petition does not contain adequate justification, he or she denies it and notifies the petitioner in writing, explaining the reasons for the denial. A copy of the letter is placed in the public docket.

(5) If the Administrator determines that the petition contains adequate justification, he or she grants it, and notifies the petitioner in writing. A copy of the letter is placed in the public docket.

(6) The Administrator may attach such conditions as he or she deems appropriate to a grant of a petition, which the manufacturer must follow in order to use the alternative procedure.
