
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 583 - AUTOMOBILE PARTS CONTENT LABELING
##### ยง 583.15 Joint ownership.

(a) A carline jointly owned and/or produced by more than one manufacturer shall be attributed to the single manufacturer that markets the carline, subject to paragraph (b) of this section.

(b)(1) The joint owners of a carline may designate, by written agreement, the manufacturer of record of that carline.

(2) The manufacturer of record is responsible for compliance with all the manufacturer requirements in this part with respect to the jointly owned carline. However, carline determinations must be consistent with ยง 583.4(3).

(3) A designation under this section of a manufacturer of record is effective beginning with the first model year beginning after the conclusion of the written agreement, or, if the joint owners so agree in writing, with a specified later model year.

(4) Each manufacturer of record shall send to the Administrator written notification of its designation as such not later than 30 days after the conclusion of the written agreement, and state the carline of which it is considered the manufacturer, the names of the other persons which jointly own the carline, and the name of the person, if any, formerly considered to be the manufacturer of record.

(5) The joint owners of a carline may change the manufacturer of record for a future model year by concluding a written agreement before the beginning of that model year.

(6) The allied suppliers for the jointly owned carline are the suppliers that are wholly owned by any of the manufacturers of the jointly owned carline.
