
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 585 - PHASE-IN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Advanced Air Bag Phase-in Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 585.15 Reporting requirements.
####### Advanced credit phase-in reporting requirements.

(a)(1) Within 60 days after the end of production years ending August 31, 2000, August 31, 2001, August 31, 2002, and August 31, 2003, each manufacturer choosing to certify vehicles manufactured during any of those production years as complying with phase one of the advanced air bag requirements of Standard No. 208 shall submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration providing the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section and in ยง 585.2 of this part.

(2) Within 60 days after the end of the production year ending August 31, 2007, each manufacturer choosing to certify vehicles manufactured during that production year as complying with phase two of the advanced air bag requirements of Standard No. 208 shall submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration providing the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section and in ยง 585.2 of this part.

(3) Within 60 days after the end of the production year ending August 31, 2009, each manufacturer choosing to certify vehicles manufactured during that production year as complying with phase three of the advanced air bag requirements of Standard No. 208 shall submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration providing the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section and in ยง 585.2 of this part.
