
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 585 - PHASE-IN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Advanced Air Bag Phase-in Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 585.15 Reporting requirements.
####### Phase-in reporting requirements.

(b)(1) Within 60 days after the end of the production years ending August 31, 2004, August 31, 2005, and August 31, 2006, each manufacturer shall submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration regarding its compliance with phase one of the advanced air bag requirements of Standard No. 208 for its vehicles produced in that production year. The report shall provide the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section and in ยง 585.2 of this part. Each report shall also specify the number of advance credit vehicles, if any, which are being applied to the production year being reported on.

(2) Within 60 days after the end of production years ending August 31, 2008, August 31, 2009, and August 31, 2010, each manufacturer shall submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration regarding its compliance with phase two of the advanced air bag requirements of Standard No. 208 for its vehicles produced in that production year. The report shall provide the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section and in ยง 585.2 of this part. Each report shall also specify the number of advance credit vehicles, if any, which are being applied to the production year being reported on.

(3) Within 60 days after the end of the production years ending August 31, 2010, August 31, 2011, and August 31, 2012, each manufacturer shall submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration regarding its compliance with phase three of the advanced air bag requirements of Standard No. 208 for its vehicles produced in that production year. The report shall provide the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section and in ยง 585.2 of this part.
