
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 587 - DEFORMABLE BARRIERS
##### Subpart B - Side Impact Moving Deformable Barrier
###### ยง 587.5 Incorporated materials.

(a) The drawings and specifications referred to in this regulation that are not set forth in full are hereby incorporated in this part by reference. These materials are thereby made part of this regulation. The Director of the Federal Register has approved the materials incorporated by reference. For materials subject to change, only the specific version approved by the Director of the Federal Register and specified in the regulation are incorporated. A notice of any change will be published in theAs a convenience to the reader, the materials incorporated by reference are listed in the Finding Aid Table found at the end of this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations.

(b) The drawings and specifications incorporated in this part by reference are available for examination in the general reference section of Docket 79-04, Docket Section, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Room 5109, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Copies may be obtained from Rowley-Scher Reprographics, Inc., 1111 14th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005, telephone (202) 628-6667 or (202) 408-8789. The drawings and specifications are also on file in the reference library of the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, Washington, DC.
