
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 40 - PROCEDURES FOR TRANSPORTATION WORKPLACE DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAMS
#### Subpart F - Drug Testing Laboratories
##### ยง 40.97 What do laboratories report and how do they report it?

(a) As a laboratory, you must report the results for each primary specimen. The result of a primary specimen will fall into one of the following three categories. However, as a laboratory, you must report the actual results (and not the categories):

(1) Category 1: Negative Results. As a laboratory, when you find a specimen to be negative, you must report the test result as being one of the following, as appropriate:

(i) Negative, or

(ii) Negative-dilute, with numerical values for creatinine and specific gravity.

(2) Category 2: Non-negative Results. As a laboratory, when you find a specimen to be non-negative, you must report the test result as being one or more of the following, as appropriate:

(i) Positive, with drug(s)/metabolite(s) noted, with numerical values for the drug(s) or drug metabolite(s).

(ii) Positive-dilute, with drug(s)/metabolite(s) noted, with numerical values for the drug(s) or drug metabolite(s) and with numerical values for creatinine and specific gravity;

(iii) Adulterated, with adulterant(s) noted, with confirmatory test values (when applicable), and with remark(s);

(iv) Substituted, with confirmatory test values for creatinine and specific gravity; or

(v) Invalid result, with remark(s). Laboratories will report actual values for pH results.

(3) Category 3: Rejected for Testing. As a laboratory, when you reject a specimen for testing, you must report the result as being Rejected for Testing, with remark(s).
