
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 587 - DEFORMABLE BARRIERS
##### Subpart B - Side Impact Moving Deformable Barrier
###### ยง 587.6 General description.

(a) The moving deformable barrier consists of component parts and component assemblies which are described in drawings and specifications that are set forth in this ยง 587.6 of this chapter (incorporated by reference; see ยง 587.5).

(b) The moving deformable barrier specifications are provided in the drawings shown in DSL-1278 through DSL-1287, except DSL-1282, and the drawing shown in DSL-1290 (DSL-1278 through DSL-1287, except for DSL-1282, and DSL-1290 are incorporated by reference; see ยง 587.5).

(1) The specifications for the final assembly of the moving deformable barrier are provided in the drawings shown in DSL-1278, dated June 2002.

(2) The specifications for the frame assembly of the moving deformable barrier are provided in the drawings shown in DSL-1281, dated August 20, 1980.

(3) The specifications for the face of the moving deformable barrier are provided in the drawings shown in DSL-1285, dated October 1991, and DSL-1286, dated August 20, 1980.

(4) The specifications for the ballast installation and details concerning the ballast plate are provided in drawings shown in DSL-1279 and DSL-1280, both dated August 20, 1980.

(5) The specifications for the hub assembly and details concerning the brake are provided in drawings shown in DSL-1283, dated October 1991.

(6) The specifications for the rear guide assembly are provided in drawings shown in DSL-1284, dated August 20, 1980.

(7) The specifications for the research axle assembly are provided in drawings shown in DSL-1287, dated October 1991.

(8) The specifications for the compliance axle assembly are provided in drawings shown in DSL-1290, dated October 1991.

(c) In configuration 2 (with two cameras and camera mounts, a light trap vane, and ballast reduced), the moving deformable barrier (crabbable axle), including the impact surface, supporting structure, and carriage, weighs 3,015 pounds, has a track width of 74 inches, and has a wheelbase of 102 inches.

(d) In configuration 2, the moving deformable barrier has the following center of gravity:

(e) The moving deformable barrier has the following moment of inertia:
