
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 40 - PROCEDURES FOR TRANSPORTATION WORKPLACE DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAMS
#### Subpart F - Drug Testing Laboratories
##### ยง 40.97 What do laboratories report and how do they report it?
###### i.e.,

(1) Negative results: You must fax, courier, mail, or electronically transmit a legible image or copy of the fully-completed Copy 1 of the CCF which has been signed by the certifying scientist, or you may provide the laboratory results report electronically (computer data file).

(i) If you elect to provide the laboratory results report, you must include the following elements, as a minimum, in the report format:

(A) Laboratory name and address;

(B) Employer's name (you may include I.D. or account number);

(C) Medical review officer's name;

(D) Specimen I.D. number;

(E) Donor's SSN or employee I.D. number, if provided;

(F) Reason for test, if provided;

(G) Collector's name and telephone number;

(H) Date of the collection;

(I) Date received at the laboratory;

(J) Date certifying scientist released the results;

(K) Certifying scientist's name;

(L) Results (e.g., positive, adulterated) as listed in paragraph (a) of this section; and

(M) Remarks section, with an explanation of any situation in which a correctable flaw has been corrected.

(ii) You may release the laboratory results report only after review and approval by the certifying scientist. It must reflect the same test result information as contained on the CCF signed by the certifying scientist. The information contained in the laboratory results report may not contain information that does not appear on the CCF.

(iii) The results report may be transmitted through any means that ensures accuracy and confidentiality. You, as the laboratory, together with the MRO, must ensure that the information is adequately protected from unauthorized access or release, both during transmission and in storage.

(2) Non-negative and Rejected for Testing results: You must fax, courier, mail, or electronically transmit a legible image or copy of the fully-completed Copy 1 of the CCF that has been signed by the certifying scientist. In addition, you may provide the electronic laboratory results report following the format and procedures set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(c) In transmitting laboratory results to the MRO, you, as the laboratory, together with the MRO, must ensure that the information is adequately protected from unauthorized access or release, both during transmission and in storage. If the results are provided by fax, the fax connection must have a fixed telephone number accessible only to authorized individuals.

(d) You must transmit test results to the MRO in a timely manner, preferably the same day that review by the certifying scientist is completed.

(e)(1) You must provide quantitative values for confirmed positive drug test results to the MRO.

(2) You must provide the numerical values that support the adulterated (when applicable) or substituted result, without a request from the MRO.

(3) You must also provide to the MRO numerical values for creatinine and specific gravity for the negative-dilute test result, without a request from the MRO.

(f) You must provide quantitative values for confirmed opiate results for morphine or codeine at 15,000 ng/mL or above, even if the MRO has not requested quantitative values for the test result.
