
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 591 - IMPORTATION OF VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT SUBJECT TO FEDERAL SAFETY, BUMPER AND THEFT PREVENTION STANDARDS
##### ยง 591.9 Petitions for remission or mitigation of forfeiture.

(a) After a bond has been forfeited, a principal and/or a surety may petition for remission of forfeiture. A principal and/or surety may petition for mitigation of forfeiture only if the motor vehicle has been imported pursuant to paragraph 591.5(f) and the condition not met relates to the compliance of a passenger motor vehicle with part 581 of this chapter.

(b) A petition for remission or mitigation shall:

(1) Be addressed to the Administrator, identified as either a petition for remission or for mitigation, submitted in triplicate, and signed by the principal and/or the surety.

(2) State the make, model, model year, and VIN of the vehicle involved, and contain the Customs Entry number under which the vehicle entered the United States.

(3) State the facts and circumstances relied on by the petitioner to justify remission or mitigation.

(4) Be filed within 30 days from the date of the mailing of the notice of forfeiture incurred.

(c) A false statement contained in a petition may subject the petitioner to prosecution under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1001.

(d) If the Administrator finds that all conditions of the bond have, in fact, been fulfilled, the forfeiture is remitted.

(e) A decision to mitigate a forfeiture upon condition that a stated amount is paid shall be effective for not more than 60 days from the date of notice to the petitioner of such decision. If payment of the stated amount is not made, or arrangements made for delayed or installment payment, the full claim of forfeiture shall be deemed applicable. The Administrator shall collect the claim, or, if unable to collect the claim within 120 days, shall refer the matter to the Department of Justice.
