
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 592 - REGISTERED IMPORTERS OF VEHICLES NOT ORIGINALLY MANUFACTURED TO CONFORM TO THE FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### ยง 592.6 Duties of a registered importer.
###### bona fide

(l) Except as noted in this paragraph, notify the Administrator in writing of any change that occurs in the information which was submitted in its registration application, not later than the 30th calendar day after such change. If a Registered Importer intends to use a facility that was not identified in its registration application, not later than 30 days before it begins to use such facility, it must notify the Administrator of its intent to use such facility and provide a description of the intended use, a copy of the lease or deed evidencing the Registered Importer's ownership or tenancy of the facility, and a copy of the license or similar document issued by an appropriate state or municipal authority stating that the Registered Importer is licensed to do business at that facility as an importer and/or modifier and/or seller of motor vehicles (or a statement that it has made ainquiry and is not required by state or local law to have such a license or permission), and a sufficient number of unaltered photographs of that facility to fully depict the Registered Importer's intended use. If a Registered Importer intends to change its street address or telephone number or discontinue use of a facility that was identified in its registration application, it shall notify the Administrator not less than 10 days before such change or discontinuance of such use, and identify the facility, if any, that will be used instead.

(m) Assure that at least one full-time employee of the Registered Importer is present at at least one of the Registered Importer's facilities in the United States during normal business hours.

(n) Not co-utilize the same employee, or any repair or conformance facility, with any other Registered Importer. If a Registered Importer co-utilizes the same storage facility with another Registered Importer or another entity, the storage area of each Registered Importer must be clearly delineated, and the vehicles being stored by each Registered Importer may not be mingled with vehicles for which that Registered Importer is not responsible.

(o) Make timely, complete, and accurate responses to any requests by the Administrator for information, whether by general or special order or otherwise, to enable the Administrator to decide whether the Registered Importer has complied or is complying with 49 U.S.C. Chapters 301 and 325, and the regulations issued thereunder.

(p) Pay all fees either by certified check, cashier's check, money order, credit card, or Electronic Funds Transfer System made payable to the Treasurer of the United States, in accordance with the invoice of fees incurred by the Registered Importer in the previous month that is provided by the Administrator. All such fees are due and payable not later than 15 days from the date of the invoice.

(q) Not later than November 1, 2004, file with the Administrator all information required by ยง 592.5(a), as amended. If a Registered Importer has previously provided any item of information to the Administrator in its registration application, annual statement, or notification of change, it may incorporate that item by reference in the filing required under this subsection, provided that it clearly indicates the date, page, and entry of the previously-provided document.
