
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 592 - REGISTERED IMPORTERS OF VEHICLES NOT ORIGINALLY MANUFACTURED TO CONFORM TO THE FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### ยง 592.7 Suspension, revocation, and reinstatement of suspended registrations.
###### Reinstatement of suspended registrations.

(c)(1) When a registration has been suspended under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Administrator will reinstate the registration when all fees owing are paid by wire transfer or certified check from a bank in the United States, together with a sum representing 10 percent of the amount of the fees that were not timely paid.

(2) When a registration has been suspended under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(5) of this section, the registration will be reinstated after the expiration of the period of suspension specified by the Administrator, or such earlier date as the Administrator may subsequently decide is appropriate.

(3) When a registration has been suspended under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the registration will be reinstated when the Administrator decides that the Registered Importer has provided a street address to which mail to it is deliverable and a telephone number in its name that is in service.

(4) When a registration has been suspended under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the registration will be reinstated when the Administrator decides that the Registered Importer has provided all relevant documentation and information required by ยง 592.6(q).

(5) When a registration has been suspended under paragraph (b) of this section, the registration will be reinstated after the expiration of the period of suspension specified by the Administrator, or such earlier date as the Administrator may subsequently decide is appropriate.

(6) When a suspended registration has been reinstated, NHTSA shall notify the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection promptly.

(7) If a Registered Importer imports a motor vehicle on or after the date that its registration is suspended and before the date that the suspension ends, the Administrator may extend the suspension period by one day for each day that the Registered Importer has imported a motor vehicle during the time that its registration has been suspended.
