
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 592 - REGISTERED IMPORTERS OF VEHICLES NOT ORIGINALLY MANUFACTURED TO CONFORM TO THE FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### ยง 592.7 Suspension, revocation, and reinstatement of suspended registrations.
###### Effect of suspension or revocation.

(d)(1) If a Registered Importer's registration is suspended or revoked, as of the date of suspension or revocation the entity will not be considered a Registered Importer, will not have the rights and authorities appertaining thereto, and must cease importing, and will not be allowed to import, vehicles for resale. The Registered Importer will not be refunded any annual or other fees it has paid for the fiscal year in which its registration is revoked. The Administrator shall notify the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection of any suspension or revocation of a registration not later than the first business day after such action is taken.

(2) With respect to any vehicle for which it has not affixed a certification label and submitted a certificate of conformity to the Administrator under ยง 592.6(d) at the time it is notified that its registration has been suspended or revoked, the Registered Importer must affix a certification label and submit a certificate of conformity within 120 days from the date of entry.

(3) When a registration has been revoked or suspended, the Registered Importer must export within 30 days of the effective date of the suspension or revocation all vehicles that it imported to which it has not affixed a certification label and furnished a certificate of conformity to the Administrator pursuant to ยง 592.6(d).

(4) With respect to any vehicle imported pursuant to ยง 591.5(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter that the Registered Importer has agreed to bring into compliance with all applicable standards and for which it has not certified and furnished a certificate of conformity to the Administrator, the Registered Importer must immediately notify the owner of the vehicle in writing that its registration has been suspended or revoked.
