
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 592 - REGISTERED IMPORTERS OF VEHICLES NOT ORIGINALLY MANUFACTURED TO CONFORM TO THE FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS
##### ยง 592.7 Suspension, revocation, and reinstatement of suspended registrations.
###### Automatic suspension of a registration.

(a)49 U.S.C. 30141(c)(4)(B) explicitly authorizes NHTSA to automatically suspend a registration when a Registered Importer does not, in a timely manner, pay a fee required by part 594 of this chapter or knowingly files a false or misleading certification under 49 U.S.C. 30146. NHTSA also may automatically suspend a registration under other circumstances, as specified in paragraphs (3), (4) and (5) of this section.

(1) If the Administrator has not received the annual fee from a Registered Importer by the close of business on October 10 of a year, or, if October 10 falls on a weekend or holiday, by the next business day thereafter, or has not received any other fee owed by a Registered Importer within 15 calendar days from the date of the Administrator's invoice, the Registered Importer's registration will be automatically suspended at the beginning of the next business day. The Administrator will promptly notify the Registered Importer in writing of the suspension. Such suspension shall remain in effect until reinstated pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(2) If the Administrator decides that a Registered Importer has knowingly filed a false or misleading certification, (s)he shall promptly notify the Registered Importer in writing that its registration is automatically suspended. The notification shall inform the Registered Importer of the facts and conduct upon which the decision is based, and the period of suspension (which begins as of the date indicated in the Administrator's written notification). The notification shall afford the Registered Importer an opportunity to seek reconsideration of the decision by presenting data, views, and arguments in writing and/or in person, within 30 days. Not later than 30 days after the submission of data, views, and arguments, the Administrator, after considering all the information available, shall notify the Registered Importer in writing of his or her decision on reconsideration. Any suspension issued under this paragraph shall remain in effect until reinstated pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(3) If mail is undeliverable to the Registered Importer at the official street address it has provided to the Administrator, or if the telephone has been disconnected at the telephone number specified by the Registered Importer, the Administrator may automatically suspend the Registered Importer's registration. Such suspension shall remain in effect until the registration is reinstated pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(4) If a Registered Importer, not later than November 1, 2004, does not file with the Administrator all information required by ยง 592.5(a), as required by ยง 592.6(q), the Administrator may automatically suspend the registration. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Registered Importer in writing of the suspension. Such a suspension shall remain in effect until the registration is reinstated pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(5) If a Registered Importer releases one or more motor vehicles on the basis of a forged or falsified bond release letter, and the Administrator has not in fact issued such a letter, the Administrator may automatically suspend the registration. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Registered Importer in writing of the suspension.

(6) The Administrator, in his or her sole discretion, may provide notice of a proposed automatic suspension or revocation for reasons specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.

(7) The notification shall afford the Registered Importer an opportunity to seek reconsideration of the decision by presenting data, views, and arguments in writing and/or in person, within 30 days of such notification, before a decision, as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Not later than 30 days after the submission of data, views, and arguments, the Administrator, after considering all the information available, shall notify the Registered Importer in writing of his or her decision on reconsideration. Any automatic suspension issued under this paragraph shall remain in effect until reinstated pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
