
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 593 - DETERMINATIONS THAT A VEHICLE NOT ORIGINALLY MANUFACTURED TO CONFORM TO THE FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS IS ELIGIBLE FOR IMPORTATION
##### Appendix A to Part 593 - List of Vehicles Determined to be Eligible for Importation

(a) Each vehicle on the following list is followed by a vehicle eligibility number. The importer of a vehicle admissible under any eligibility decision must enter that number on the HS-7 Declaration Form accompanying entry to indicate that the vehicle is eligible for importation.

(1) "VSA" eligibility numbers are assigned to all vehicles that are decided to be eligible for importation on the initiative of the Administrator under § 593.8.

(2) "VSP" eligibility numbers are assigned to vehicles that are decided to be eligible under § 593.7(f), based on a petition from a manufacturer or registered importer submitted under § 593.5(a)(1), which establishes that a substantially similar U.S.-certified vehicle exists.

(3) "VCP" eligibility numbers are assigned to vehicles that are decided to be eligible under § 593.7(f), based on a petition from a manufacturer or registered importer submitted under § 593.5(a)(2), which establishes that the vehicle has safety features that comply with, or are capable of being altered to comply with, all applicable FMVSS.

(b) Vehicles for which eligibility decisions have been made are listed alphabetically, first by make, then by model, then by model year.

(c) All hyphens used in the Model Year column mean "through" (for example, "1995-1999" means "1995 through 1999").

(d) The initials "MC" used in the Make column mean "Motorcycle."

(e) The initials "SWB" used in the Model Type column mean "Short Wheel Base."

(f) The initials "LWB" used in the Model Type column mean "Long Wheel Base."

(g) For vehicles with a European country of origin, the term "Model Year" ordinarily means calendar year in which the vehicle was produced.

(h) All vehicles are left-hand-drive (LHD) vehicles unless noted as RHD. The initials "RHD" used in the Model Type column mean "right-hand-drive."

(i) For vehicle models that have been determined to be eligible for importation based on a petition submitted under § 593.5(a)(1), which establishes that a substantially similar U.S.-certified vehicle exists, and no specific body style(s) are listed, only the body style(s) of that vehicle model that were U.S.-certified by the original manufacturer are eligible for importation. For example, if the original manufacturer manufactured both sedan and wagon body styles for the described model, but only certified the sedan for the U.S. market, the wagon body style would not be eligible for importation under that determination.
