
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 594 - SCHEDULE OF FEES AUTHORIZED BY 49 U.S.C. 30141
##### § 594.5 Establishment and payment of fees.

(a) The fees established by this part continue in effect until adjusted by the Administrator. The Administrator reviews the amount or rate of fees established under this part and, if appropriate, adjusts them by rule at least every 2 years.

(b) The fees applicable in any fiscal year are established before the beginning of such year. Each fee is calculated in accordance with this part, and is published in thenot later than September 30 of each year.

(c) An applicant for status as Registered Importer shall submit an initial annual fee with the application. A Registered Importer shall pay an annual fee not later than October 31 of each year. The fee is that specified in § 594.6(i).

(d) A person who petitions the Administrator for a determination that a vehicle is eligible for importation shall file with the petition the fee specified in § 594.7(e).

(e) No application or petition will be accepted for filing or processed before payment of the full amount specified. Except as provided in § 594.6(d), a fee shall be paid irrespective of NHTSA's disposition of the application, or of a withdrawal of an application.

(f) The Administrator will furnish each Registered Importer with a monthly invoice of the fees owed by the Registered Importer for reimbursement for bond processing costs and for the review and processing of conformity certificates and information regarding importation of motor vehicles as provided in Section 592.4 of this chapter. A person who for personal use imports a vehicle covered by a determination of the Administrator must pay the fee specified in either § 594.8(b) or (c), as appropriate, to the Registered Importer, and the invoice will also include these fees. The Registered Importer must pay the fees within 15 days of the date of the invoice.

(g) Fee payments must be by certified check, cashier's check, money order, credit card, or Electronic Funds Transfer System, made payable to the Treasurer of the United States.
