
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 594 - SCHEDULE OF FEES AUTHORIZED BY 49 U.S.C. 30141
##### ยง 594.6 Annual fee for administration of the registration program.
###### per diem

(g) The direct costs included in establishing the annual fee for maintaining registered importer status are the estimated costs of professional and clerical staff time, computer and computer operator time, and postage, per Registered Importer. The direct costs included in establishing the annual fee for a specific Registered Importer are costs of transportation andattributable to inspections conducted with respect to that Registered Importer in administering the registration program, which have not been included in a previous annual fee.

(h) The indirect costs included in establishing the annual fee for maintaining Registered Importer status are a pro rata allocation of the average salary and benefits of persons employed in processing annual statements, or changes thereto, in recommending continuation of Registered Importer status, and a pro rata allocation of the costs attributable to maintaining the office space, and the computer or word processor. This cost is $25.73 per man-hour for the period beginning October 1, 2014.

(i) Based upon the elements and indirect costs of paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, the component of the initial annual fee attributable to administration of the registration program, covering the period beginning October 1, 2014, is $511. When added to the costs of registration of $333, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the costs per applicant to be recovered through the annual fee are $844. The annual renewal registration fee for the period beginning October 1, 2014, is $726.
