
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 599 - REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR CONSUMER ASSISTANCE TO RECYCLE AND SAVE ACT PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Enforcement
###### ยง 599.504 Suspension, revocation, and reinstatement of registration and participation eligibility.
####### Suspension or revocation of dealer registration, or salvage auction or disposal facility participation eligibility.

(a)(1) When the NHTSA Chief Counsel determines that a violation has likely occurred, the Administrator may notify the dealer, salvage auction or disposal facility in writing of the facts giving rise to the allegation of a violation and the proposed length of a suspension, if applicable, or revocation of registration, in the case of a dealer, or participation eligibility in the case of a salvage auction or disposal facility.

(2) The notice shall afford the dealer, salvage auction or disposal facility an opportunity to present data, views, and arguments, in writing and/or in person, within 30 days of the date of the notice, as to whether the violation occurred, why its registration or participation eligibility ought not to be suspended or revoked, or whether the suspension should be shorter than proposed. The Administrator may, for good cause, reduce the time allowed for response.

(3) If the Administrator decides, on the basis of the available information, that the dealer, salvage auction or disposal facility has committed a violation, the Administrator may suspend or revoke the dealer registration or the participation eligibility of the salvage auction or disposal facility.

(4) The Administrator shall notify the dealer, salvage auction or disposal facility in writing of the decision, including the reasons for it. The decision shall reflect the gravity of the offense.

(5) A suspension or revocation is effective as of the date of the Administrator's written notification, unless another date is specified therein.

(6) The Administrator shall state the period of any suspension in the notice to the dealer, salvage auction or disposal facility.

(7) There shall be no opportunity to seek reconsideration of the Administrator's decision issued under this paragraph (a).
