
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 599 - REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR CONSUMER ASSISTANCE TO RECYCLE AND SAVE ACT PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Enforcement
###### ยง 599.506 Notice of Violation.

(a) The agency has the authority to assess a civil penalty for any violation of the CARS Act or this part. The penalty may not be more than $15,000 for each violation.

(b) The Chief Counsel may issue a Notice of Violation to a party. Notice of Violation will contain the following information:

(1) The name and address of the party;

(2) The alleged violation and the applicable law or regulations violated;

(3) The amount of the maximum penalty that may be assessed for each violation;

(4) The amount of proposed penalty;

(5) A statement that payment of the proposed penalty within 30 days will settle the case without admission of liability;

(6) The place to which, and the manner in which, payment is to be made;

(7) A statement that the party may decline the Notice of Violation and that if the Notice of Violation is declined, the party has the right to a hearing prior to a final assessment of a penalty by a Hearing Officer.

(8) A statement that failure to either pay the proposed penalty on the Notice of Violation or to decline the Notice of Violation and request a hearing within 30 days of the date shown on the Notice of Violation will result in a finding of violation by default and that NHTSA will proceed with the civil penalty in the amount proposed on the Notice of Violation without processing the violation under the hearing procedures set forth in this subpart.

(c) The Notice of Violation may be delivered to the party by:

(1) Hand-delivery to the party or an employee of the party;

(2) Mailing to the party (certified mail is not required);

(3) Use of an overnight or express courier service; or

(4) Facsimile transmission or electronic mail (with or without attachments) to the party or an employee of the party.

(d) If a party submits a written request for a hearing as provided in the Notice of Violation within 30 days of the date shown on the Notice of Violation, the case file will be sent to the Hearing Officer for processing under the hearing procedures set forth in this subpart.

(e) If a party pays the proposed penalty on the Notice of Violation or an amount agreed on in compromise within 30 days of the date shown on the Notice of Violation, a finding of "resolved with payment" will be entered into the case file. Such payment shall not be an admission of liability.

(f) If the party agrees to pay the proposed penalty, but has not made payment within 30 days of the date shown on the Notice of Violation, NHTSA will enter a finding of violation by default in the matter and NHTSA will proceed with the civil penalty in the amount proposed on the Notice of Violation without processing the violation under the hearing procedures set forth in this subpart.

(g) If within 30 days of the date shown on the Notice of Violation a party fails to pay the proposed penalty on the Notice of Violation; and fails to request a hearing, then NHTSA will enter a finding of violation by default in the case file, and will assess the civil penalty in the amount set forth on the Notice of Violation without processing the violation under the hearing procedures set forth in this subpart.

(h) NHTSA's order assessing the civil penalty following a party's default is final agency action.
