
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 599 - REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR CONSUMER ASSISTANCE TO RECYCLE AND SAVE ACT PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Enforcement
###### ยง 599.513 Hearing procedures.

(a) There is no right to discovery in any proceedings conducted pursuant to this subpart.

(b) The material in the case file pertinent to the issues to be determined by the Hearing Officer is presented by the Chief Counsel or his or her designee.

(c) The Chief Counsel may supplement the case file with information prior to the hearing. A copy of such information will be provided to the party no later than 3 days before the hearing.

(d) At the close of the Chief Counsel's presentation of evidence, the party has the right to examine, respond to and rebut material in the case file and other information presented by the Chief Counsel.

(e) In receiving evidence, the Hearing Officer is not bound by strict rules of evidence. In evaluating the evidence presented, the Hearing Officer must give due consideration to the reliability and relevance of each item of evidence.

(f) A party may present the testimony of any witness either through a written statement or a personal appearance. If a party wishes to present testimony through a personal appearance, the party is responsible for obtaining that personal appearance, including any costs associated with such appearance. The Hearing Officer may, at his or her discretion, accept a stipulation in lieu of testimony.

(g) At the close of the party's presentation of evidence, the Hearing Officer may allow the introduction of rebuttal evidence that may be presented by the Chief Counsel. The Hearing Officer may allow the party to respond to any such evidence submitted.

(h) The Hearing Officer may take notice of matters which are subject to a high degree of indisputability and are commonly known in the community or are ascertainable from readily available sources of known accuracy. Prior to taking notice of a matter, the Hearing Officer shall give the party an opportunity to show why notice should not be taken. In any case in which notice is taken, the Hearing Officer places a written statement of the matters as to which notice was taken in the record, with the basis for such notice, including a statement that the party consented to notice being taken or a summary of the party's objections.

(i) After the evidence in the case has been presented, the Chief Counsel and the party may present argument on the issues in the case. The party may also request an opportunity to submit a written statement for consideration by the Hearing Officer and for further review. If granted, the Hearing Officer shall allow a reasonable time for submission of the statement and shall specify the date by which it must be received. If the statement is not received within the time prescribed, or within the limits of any extension of time granted by the Hearing Officer, the Hearing Officer prepares the decision in the case.

(j) A verbatim transcript of the hearing will not normally be prepared. A party may, solely at its own expense, cause a verbatim transcript to be made. If a verbatim transcript is made, the party shall submit two copies to the Hearing Officer not later than 15 days of the hearing. The Hearing Officer shall include such transcript in the record.
