
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter V - National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 599 - REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR CONSUMER ASSISTANCE TO RECYCLE AND SAVE ACT PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Enforcement
###### ยง 599.514 Assessment of civil penalties.

(a) Not later than 30 days following the close of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall issue a written decision on the Notice of Violation, based on the hearing record. The decision shall set forth the basis for the Hearing Officer's assessment of a civil penalty, or decision not to assess a civil penalty. In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the severity of the violation and the intent and history of the party committing the violation shall be taken into account. The assessment of a civil penalty by the Hearing Officer shall be set forth in an accompanying final order.

(b) If the Hearing Officer assesses civil penalties in excess of $100,000.00, the Hearing Officer's decision contains a statement advising the party of the right to an administrative appeal to the Administrator. The party is advised that failure to submit an appeal within the prescribed time will bar its consideration and that failure to appeal on the basis of a particular issue will constitute a waiver of that issue in its appeal before the Administrator.

(c) The filing of a timely and complete appeal to the Administrator of a Hearing Officer's order assessing a civil penalty shall suspend the operation of the Hearing Officer's penalty.

(d) There shall be no administrative appeals of civil penalties of $100,000.00 or less.
