
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 601 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 601.3 General responsibilities.
####### Office of Planning and Environment.

(f)Directed by an Associate Administrator for Planning and Development, this office administers a national program of planning assistance that provides funding, guidance, and technical support to State and local transportation agencies. In partnership with the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), this office oversees a national program of planning assistance and certification of metropolitan and statewide planning organizations, implemented by FTA Regional Offices and FHWA Divisional Offices. The office provides national guidance and technical support in emphasis areas including planning capacity building, financial planning, transit oriented development, joint development, project cost estimation, travel demand forecasting, and other technical areas. This office also oversees the Federal environmental review process as it applies to transit projects throughout the country, including implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Clean Air Act, and related laws and regulations. The office provides national guidance and oversight of planning and project development for proposed major transit capital fixed guideway projects, commonly referred to as the New Starts program. In addition, this office is responsible for the evaluation and rating of proposed projects based on a set of statutory criteria, and applies these ratings as input to the Annual New Starts Report and funding recommendations submitted to Congress, as well as for FTA approval required for projects to advance into preliminary engineering, final design, and full funding grant agreements.
