
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 604 - CHARTER SERVICE
##### Subpart E - Advisory Opinions and Cease and Desist Orders
###### ยง 604.22 Request for a cease and desist order.

(a) An interested party may also request a cease and desist order as part of its request for an advisory opinion. A request for a cease and desist order shall contain the following information in addition to the information required for an advisory opinion:

(1) A description of the need for the cease and desist order, a detailed description of the lost business opportunity the interested party is likely to suffer if the recipient performs the charter service in question, and how the public interest will be served by avoiding or ameliorating the lost business opportunity. A registered charter provider must distinguish its loss from that of other registered charter providers in the geographic service area.

(2) A detailed description of the efforts made to notify the recipient of the potential violation of the charter service regulations. Include names, titles, phone numbers or e-mail addresses of persons contacted, date and times contact was made, and the response received, if any.

(b) A request for a cease and desist order may be denied if:

(1) The request contains incomplete information on which to base an informed a cease and desist order;

(2) The Chief Counsel concludes that a cease and desist order cannot reasonably be given on the matter involved;

(3) The matter is adequately covered by a prior a cease and desist order; or

(4) The Chief Counsel otherwise concludes that a cease and desist order would not be in the public interest.

(c) A recipient who is the subject of a request for a cease and desist order shall have three business days to respond to the request. The response shall include a point-by-point rebuttal to the information included in the request for a cease and desist order.
