
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 604 - CHARTER SERVICE
##### Appendix C to Part 604 - Frequently Asked Questions
###### ombudsman.charterservice@dot.gov.,http://www.regulations.gov.

A: A transit agency must file the petition with the ombudsman atFTA will file all petitions in the Petitions to the Administrator docket (FTA-2007-0022) at

(40) Q: What qualifies as a unique and time sensitive event?

A: In order to petition the Administrator for a discretionary exception, a public transit agency must demonstrate that the event is unique or that circumstances are such that there is not enough time to check with registered charter providers. Events that occur on an annual basis are generally not considered unique or time sensitive.

(41) Q: Is there any particular format for quarterly reports for exceptions?

A: No. The report must contain the information required by the regulations and clearly identify the exception under which the transit agency performed the service.

(42) Q: May a transit agency lease its vehicles to one registered charter provider if there is another registered charter provider that can perform all of the requested service with private charter vehicles?

A: No. A transit agency may not lease its vehicles to one registered charter provider when there is another registered charter provider that can perform all of the requested service. In that case, the transit vehicles would enable the first registered charter provider to charge less for the service than the second registered charter provider that uses all private charter vehicles.

(43) Q: Where do I submit my reports?
