
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 604 - CHARTER SERVICE
##### Subpart J - Appeal to Administrator and Final Agency Orders
###### ยง 604.49 Administrator's discretionary review of the Chief Counsel's decision.

(a) If the Administrator takes review on the Administrator's own motion, the Administrator shall issue a notice of review by the twenty-first day after the actual date of the Chief Counsel's decision that contains the following information:

(1) The notice sets forth the specific findings of fact and conclusions of law in the decision subject to review by the Administrator.

(2) Parties may file one brief on review to the Administrator or rely on their post-hearing briefs to the Chief Counsel's office. Briefs on review shall be filed not later than 10 days after service of the notice of review. Filing and service of briefs on review shall be by personal delivery consistent with ยง 604.30 and ยง 604.31.

(3) The Administrator issues a final agency decision and order within 30 days of the due date of the briefs on review. If the Administrator finds that the respondent is not in compliance with this part, the final agency order shall include a statement of corrective action, if appropriate, and identify remedies.

(b) If the Administrator takes review on the Administrator's own motion, the decision of the Chief Counsel is stayed pending a final decision by the Administrator.
