
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 605 - SCHOOL BUS OPERATIONS
##### Subpart B - School Bus Agreements
###### ยง 605.19 Approval of school bus operations.

(a) The Administrator will consider the comments filed by private school bus operators prior to making any findings regarding the applicant's proposed or existing school bus operations.

(b) After a showing by the applicant that it has complied with the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 1602(d) and this subpart, the Administrator may approve its school bus operations.

(c) If the Administrator finds that the applicant has not complied with the notice requirement of this part or otherwise finds that the applicant's proposed or existing school bus operations are unacceptable, he will so notify the applicant in writing, stating the reasons for his findings.

(d) Within 20 days after receiving notice of adverse findings from the Administrator, an applicant may file written objections to the Administrator's findings or submit a revised proposal for its school bus operations. If an applicant revises its proposed or existing school bus operations, it shall mail a copy of these revisions along with the findings of the administrator to private school bus operators required to be notified under ยง 605.16.

(e) Private school bus operators who receive notice under paragraph (d) of this section may within 20 days after receipt of notice file written comments on the proposed revisions with the Administrator. The Administrator will consider these comments prior to his approval of a proposed revision by the applicant.

(f) Upon receipt of notice of approval of its school bus operations, the applicant may enter into an agreement with the Administrator under ยง 605.14.
