
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 605 - SCHOOL BUS OPERATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 605
###### Security National Insurance Co.,Secuoyah Marina,,incidental use

As to the second part of the question, inv.246F.2d 830, "incident" is defined as meaning "that which appertains to something else which is primary." Thus, we cannot say HUD's definition ofas set forth above is unreasonable. Under the Act involved grants may be made to purchase buses only if the buses are needed for an efficient and coordinated mass transportation system. It would appear that if buses are purchased in order to meet this need, and are, in fact, used to meet such need, the use of such buses for charter service when not needed for mass transportation services would, in effect, be an "incidental use," insofar as pertinent here. In our opinion such incidental use would not violate the provisions of the 1964 Act.

Number three:

"The grant of funds for mass public transportation purposes to a City which has expressed an intent to engage in the general charter bus business when such funds would in effect constitute a subsidy to the City of its intended charter bus operations; i.e. freeing Municipal funds with which to purchase charter bus equipment."

Section 4(a) of the 1954 Act (49 U.S.C. 1603(a)) provides, in part, as follows:

"* * * The Administrator (now Secretary), on the basis of engineering studies, studies of economic feasibility, and data showing the nature and extent of expected utilization of the facilities and equipment, shall estimate what portion of the cost of a project to be assisted under section 1602 of this title cannot be reasonably financed from revenues-which portion shall hereinafter be called 'net project cost'. The Federal grant for such a project shall not exceed two-thirds of the net project cost. The remainder of the net project cost shall be provided, in cash, from sources other than Federal funds * * *."

It is clear from the legislative history of the Act involved that the "revenues" to be considered are mass transportation system revenues including any revenues from incidental charter operations. There is nothing in the language of the Act which requires HUD to take into account the status of the general funds of an applicant city in determining how much capital grant assistance to extend to that city.

It should be noted that in a sense nearly every capital grant to a city constitutes a partial subsidy of every activity of the city which is supported by tax revenues, since it frees tax revenues for such other uses.

Number four:

"With specific reference to the application of the City of San Diego for funds under its application to the Department of Housing and Urban Development dated June 2, 1966, whether the Act permits a grant to purchase equipment wherein 25 percent of such equipment will be used either exclusively or substantially in the operation of charter bus services."

As to the City of San Diego's grant application, we have been advised by HUD as follows:

"As explained above, the Act authorizes assistance only for facilities to be used in mass transportation service. We could not, therefore, assist San Diego in purchasing any equipment to be used 'exclusively' in the operation of charter bus service. Furthermore, as also explained above, assisted mass transportation equipment can be used only incidentally for such charter services.

"Whether equipment used 'substantially' in such service qualifies under this rule can be answered only in the light of the specifics of the San Diego situation. * * * we have already, during our preliminary review of the City's application, disallowed about $150,000 of the proposed project cost which was allocated to the purchase of eight charter-type buses.

"The final application of the City of San Diego is presently under active consideration by this Department. In particular, we have requested the City to furnish additional information as to the nature and extent of the proposed use, if any, of project facilities and equipment in charter service, so that we can further evaluate the application under the criteria above set forth. We have also requested similar information from Mr. Fredrick J. Ruane, who has filed a taxpayers' suit (Superior Court for San Diego County Civil #297329) against the City, contesting its authority to engage in charter bus operations."

As indicated above, it is clear that under the Act in question grants may not legally be made to purchase buses to be used "exclusively" in the operation of charter bus service. However, in view of the purposes of the Act involved it is our opinion that a city which has purchased with grant funds buses needed for an efficient mass transportation system, is not precluded by the act from using such buses for charter service during idle or off-peak periods when the buses are not needed for regularly scheduled runs. As indicated above, such a use would appear to be an incidental use.

The fourth question is answered accordingly.

As requested, the correspondence enclosed with your letter is returned herewith.

Enclosures:

The Honorable Bob Wilson, House of Representatives.

I certify that, in accordance with Executive Order 11821, dated November 27, 1974, and Departmental implementing instructions, an Inflationary Impact Statement is not required for final regulations on School Bus Operations.
