
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 655 - PREVENTION OF ALCOHOL MISUSE AND PROHIBITED DRUG USE IN TRANSIT OPERATIONS
##### Subpart H - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 655.71 Retention of records.
####### Types of records.

(c)The following specific records must be maintained:

(1) Records related to the collection process:

(i) Collection logbooks, if used.

(ii) Documents relating to the random selection process.

(iii) Documents generated in connection with decisions to administer reasonable suspicion drug or alcohol tests.

(iv) Documents generated in connection with decisions on post-accident drug and alcohol testing.

(v) MRO documents verifying existence of a medical explanation of the inability of a covered employee to provide an adequate urine or breathe sample.

(2) Records related to test results:

(i) The employer's copy of the custody and control form.

(ii) Documents related to the refusal of any covered employee to submit to a test required by this part.

(iii) Documents presented by a covered employee to dispute the result of a test administered under this part.

(3) Records related to referral and return to duty and follow-up testing: Records concerning a covered employee's entry into and completion of the treatment program recommended by the substance abuse professional.

(4) Records related to employee training:

(i) Training materials on drug use awareness and alcohol misuse, including a copy of the employer's policy on prohibited drug use and alcohol misuse.

(ii) Names of covered employees attending training on prohibited drug use and alcohol misuse and the dates and times of such training.

(iii) Documentation of training provided to supervisors for the purpose of qualifying the supervisors to make a determination concerning the need for drug and alcohol testing based on reasonable suspicion.

(iv) Certification that any training conducted under this part complies with the requirements for such training.

(5) Copies of annual MIS reports submitted to FTA.
