
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 655 - PREVENTION OF ALCOHOL MISUSE AND PROHIBITED DRUG USE IN TRANSIT OPERATIONS
##### Subpart H - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 655.73 Access to facilities and records.

(a) Except as required by law, or expressly authorized or required in this section, no employer may release information pertaining to a covered employee that is contained in records required to be maintained by ยง 655.71.

(b) A covered employee is entitled, upon written request, to obtain copies of any records pertaining to the covered employee's use of prohibited drugs or misuse of alcohol, including any records pertaining to his or her drug or alcohol tests. The employer shall provide promptly the records requested by the employee. Access to a covered employee's records shall not be contingent upon the employer's receipt of payment for the production of those records.

(c) An employer shall permit access to all facilities utilized and records compiled in complying with the requirements of this part to the Secretary of Transportation or any DOT agency with regulatory authority over the employer or any of its employees or to a State oversight agency authorized to oversee rail fixed guideway systems.

(d) An employer shall disclose data for its drug and alcohol testing programs, and any other information pertaining to the employer's anti-drug and alcohol misuse programs required to be maintained by this part, to the Secretary of Transportation or any DOT agency with regulatory authority over the employer or covered employee or to a State oversight agency authorized to oversee rail fixed guideway systems, upon the Secretary's request or the respective agency's request.

(e) When requested by the National Transportation Safety Board as part of an accident investigation, employers shall disclose information related to the employer's drug or alcohol testing related to the accident under investigation.

(f) Records shall be made available to a subsequent employer upon receipt of a written request from the covered employee. Subsequent disclosure by the employer is permitted only as expressly authorized by the terms of the covered employee's request.

(g) An employer may disclose information required to be maintained under this part pertaining to a covered employee to the employee or the decisionmaker in a lawsuit, grievance, or other proceeding initiated by or on behalf of the individual, and arising from the results of a drug or alcohol test under this part (including, but not limited to, a worker's compensation, unemployment compensation, or other proceeding relating to a benefit sought by the covered employee.)

(h) An employer shall release information regarding a covered employee's record as directed by the specific, written consent of the employee authorizing release of the information to an identified person.

(i) An employer may disclose drug and alcohol testing information required to be maintained under this part, pertaining to a covered employee, to the State oversight agency or grantee required to certify to FTA compliance with the drug and alcohol testing procedures of 49 CFR parts 40 and 655.
