
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 661 - BUY AMERICA REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 661.5 General requirements.

(a) Except as provided in ยง 661.7 and ยง 661.11 of this part, no funds may be obligated by FTA for a grantee project unless all iron, steel, and manufactured products used in the project are produced in the United States.

(b) All steel and iron manufacturing processes must take place in the United States, except metallurgical processes involving refinement of steel additives.

(c) The steel and iron requirements apply to all construction materials made primarily of steel or iron and used in infrastructure projects such as transit or maintenance facilities, rail lines, and bridges. These items include, but are not limited to, structural steel or iron, steel or iron beams and columns, running rail and contact rail. These requirements do not apply to steel or iron used as components or subcomponents of other manufactured products or rolling stock, or to bimetallic power rail incorporating steel or iron components.

(d) For a manufactured product to be considered produced in the United States:

(1) All of the manufacturing processes for the product must take place in the United States; and

(2) All of the components of the product must be of U.S. origin. A component is considered of U.S. origin if it is manufactured in the United States, regardless of the origin of its subcomponents.
