
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VI - Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 674 - STATE SAFETY OVERSIGHT
##### Subpart B - Role of the State
###### ยง 674.19 Certification of a State Safety Oversight Program.

(a) The Administrator must determine whether a State's SSO program meets the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5329(e). Also, the Administrator must determine whether a SSO program is adequate to promote the purposes of 49 U.S.C. 5329, including, but not limited to, the National Public Transportation Safety Plan, the Public Transportation Safety Certification Training Program, and the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plans.

(b) The Administrator must issue a certification to a State whose SSO program meets the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5329(e). The Administrator must issue a denial of certification to a State whose SSO program does not meet the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5329(e).

(c) In an instance in which the Administrator issues a denial of certification to a State whose SSO program does not meet the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5329(e), the Administrator must provide a written explanation, and allow the State an opportunity to modify and resubmit its SSO program for the Administrator's approval. In the event the State is unable to modify its SSO program to merit the Administrator's issuance of a certification, the Administrator must notify the Governor of that fact, and must ask the Governor to take all possible actions to correct the deficiencies that are precluding the issuance of a certification for the SSO program. In his or her discretion, the Administrator may also impose financial penalties as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 5329(e), which may include:

(1) Withholding SSO grant funds from the State;

(2) Withholding up to five percent of the 49 U.S.C. 5307 Urbanized Area formula funds appropriated for use in the State or urbanized area in the State, until such time as the SSO program can be certified; or

(3) Requiring all rail fixed guideway public transportation systems governed by the SSO program to spend up to 100 percent of their Federal funding under 49 U.S.C. chapter 53 only for safety-related improvements on their systems, until such time as the SSO program can be certified.

(d) In making a determination whether to issue a certification or a denial of certification for a SSO program, the Administrator must evaluate whether the cognizant SSOA has sufficient authority, resources, and expertise to oversee the number, size, and complexity of the rail fixed guideway public transportation systems that operate within the State, or will attain the necessary authority, resources, and expertise in accordance with a developmental plan and schedule set forth to a sufficient level of detail in the SSO program.
