
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VII - National Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak)
#### Part 701 - AMTRAK FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT PROGRAM
##### ยง 701.5 Requirements for making requests.
###### Fees in excess of $25.00.

(1)When Amtrak determines or estimates that applicable fees are likely to exceed $25.00, the requesting party shall be notified of estimated or actual fees, unless a commitment has been made in advance to pay all fees. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, Amtrak shall advise the requester that the estimated fee may be a portion of the total fee.

(i) In order to protect requesters from large and/or unexpected fees, Amtrak will request a specific commitment when it estimates or determines that fees will exceed $100.00.

(ii) A request shall not be considered received and further processing shall not be carried out until the requesting party agrees to pay the anticipated total fee. Any such agreement must be memorialized in writing. A notice under this paragraph will offer the requesting party an opportunity to discuss the matter in order to reformulate the request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.

(iii) Amtrak will hold in abeyance for a reasonable amount of time requests requiring agreement to pay fees and will thereafter deem the request closed. This action will not prevent the requesting party from refiling the FOIA request with a fee commitment at a subsequent date.
