
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VII - National Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak)
#### Part 701 - AMTRAK FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT PROGRAM
##### ยง 701.7 Timing of responses to requests.
###### Expedited processing.

(f)(1) Requests and appeals may be taken out of order and given expedited treatment whenever it is determined that they involve a compelling need, which means:

(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited treatment could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; and

(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Amtrak activity, if made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information.

(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at the time of the initial request for records or at a later date.

(3) A requester seeking expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief, explaining in detail the basis for requesting expedited processing. This statement must accompany the request in order to be considered and responded to within the ten calendar days required for decisions on expedited access.

(4) A requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that he is a person whose main professional activity or occupation is information dissemination, though it need not be his sole occupation. A requester must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the Amtrak activity involved in the request.

(5) Within ten business days of receipt of a request for expedited processing, Amtrak shall determine whether to grant such a request and notify the requester of the decision. If a request for expedited treatment is granted, the request shall be given priority and shall be processed as soon as practicable.

(6) Amtrak shall provide prompt consideration of appeals of decisions denying expedited processing.
