
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VII - National Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak)
#### Part 701 - AMTRAK FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT PROGRAM
##### ยง 701.7 Timing of responses to requests.
###### Unusual circumstances.

(d)(1) The requesting party shall be notified in writing if the time limits for processing a request cannot be met because of unusual circumstances, and it will be necessary to extend the time limits for processing the request. The notification shall set forth the unusual circumstances for such extension and shall include the date by which the request can be expected to be completed. Where the extension is for more than ten business days, the requesting party will be afforded an opportunity to either modify the request so that it may be processed within the time limits or to arrange an alternative time period for processing the initial request or modified request. In such a case, the requesting party has the right to seek assistance from Amtrak's FOIA Public Liaison and to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS).

(2) If Amtrak believes that multiple requests submitted by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances and the requests involve clearly related matters, the requests may be aggregated. Multiple requests concerning unrelated matters may not be aggregated.

(3) Unusual circumstances that may justify delay include:

(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from other facilities that are separate from Amtrak's headquarters offices.

(ii) The need to search for, collect, and examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records sought in a single request.

(iii) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with agencies having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or among two or more Amtrak components having a substantial subject-matter interest in the request.
