
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VIII - National Transportation Safety Board
#### PART 800 - ADMINISTRATIVE RULES
##### Subpart A - Organization and Functions
###### ยง 800.4 Operation.

In exercising its functions, duties, and responsibilities, the Board utilizes:

(a) The Board's staff, consisting of specialized offices dealing with particular areas of transportation safety and performing administrative and technical work for the Board. The staff advises the Board and performs duties for the Board that are inherent in the staff's position in the organizational structure or that the Board has delegated to it. The staff is described more fully in ยง 800.2.

(b) Rules published in theand codified in this Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations. These rules may be inspected in the Board's public reference room, or purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Publishing Office.

(c) Procedures and policies set forth in the agency's internal directives system which govern the activities of employees and organizational components of the Board. The internal directives system is designated as the NTSB Manual and consists of instructions which are called NTSB Orders and NTSB Notices.

(d) Meetings of the Board Members conducted pursuant to the Government in the Sunshine Act.

(e) Public hearings in connection with transportation accident investigations and public hearings and oral arguments in proceedings concerned with certificates or licenses issued by the Secretary or an Administrator of the Department of Transportation or the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard. They are held at the time and place announced in the notices thereof which are served on the parties to the proceedings or published in the
