
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VIII - National Transportation Safety Board
#### PART 801 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
##### Subpart G - Fee Schedule
###### ยง 801.60 Fee schedule.
####### Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.

(e)(1) For fee purposes, the NTSB will determine, whenever reasonably possible, the use to which a requester will put the requested records. The NTSB will furnish records responsive to a request without charge, or at a reduced charge, where the NTSB determines, based on all available information, that the requester has shown that:

(i) Disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations of activities of the government; and

(ii) Disclosure of the requested information is not primarily in the commercial interest or for the commercial use of the requester.

(2) In determining whether disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest, the NTSB will consider the following factors:

(i) Whether the subject of the requested records concerns identifiable operations or activities of the Federal Government, with a connection that is direct and clear, and not remote or attenuated. In this regard, the NTSB will consider whether a requester's use of the documents would enhance transportation safety or contribute to the NTSB's programs.

(ii) Whether the portions of a record subject to disclosure are meaningfully informative about government operations or activities. The disclosure of information already in the public domain, in either a duplicative or substantially identical form, would not be as likely to contribute to such understanding where nothing new would be added to the public's understanding.

(iii) Whether disclosure of the requested information would contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. The NTSB will consider a requester's expertise in the subject area and ability to effectively convey information to the public.

(iv) Whether the disclosure is likely to enhance the public's understanding of government operations or activities.

(3) The NTSB's decision to designate the FOIA request as commercial will be made on a case-by-case basis based on the NTSB's review of the requester's intended use of the information. The NTSB will provide the requester with a reasonable opportunity to submit further clarification. In determining whether the request is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, the NTSB will consider the following factors:

(i) The existence and magnitude of any commercial interest the requester may have, or of any person on whose behalf the requester may be acting. The NTSB will provide requesters with an opportunity in the administrative process to submit explanatory information regarding this consideration.

(ii) Whether the commercial interest is greater in magnitude than any public interest in disclosure.

(4) Additionally, the NTSB may, at its discretion, waive search, duplication, and review fees for qualifying foreign countries, international organizations, nonprofit public safety entities, state and federal transportation agencies, and colleges and universities, after approval by the Chief, Records Management Division.

(5) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees, the NTSB will grant a waiver for those particular records.

(6) Requests for the waiver or reduction of fees should address the factors listed in paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section, insofar as they apply to each request. The NTSB will exercise its discretion to consider the cost-effectiveness of its use of administrative resources in determining whether to grant waivers or reductions of fees.
