
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VIII - National Transportation Safety Board
#### PART 801 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
##### Subpart G - Fee Schedule
###### § 801.60 Fee schedule.
####### Limitations on charging fees.

(d)(1) The NTSB will not charge fees if it fails to comply with the time limits in §§ 801.21 or 801.22, including an extension of time pursuant to § 801.23(a), except:

(i) If the NTSB determines there are unusual circumstances, as defined by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(iii) and § 801.23(c), and more than 5,000 pages are responsive to the request, the FOIA Office may charge fees if timely written notice of the unusual circumstances has been provided to the requester and the FOIA Office has discussed with the requestor (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could limit the scope of the request.

(ii) If a court determines there are exceptional circumstances, as defined by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(C), a failure to comply with the time limits will be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.

(2) The NTSB will not charge a fee for notices, decisions, orders, etc. provided to persons acting as parties in the investigation under the procedures set forth in part 831 of this chapter, or where required by law to be served on a party to any proceeding or matter before the NTSB. Likewise, the NTSB will not charge fees for requests made by family members of accident victims, when the NTSB has investigated the accident that is the subject of the FOIA request.

(3) The NTSB will not charge a search fee or review fee for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.

(4) Except for requesters seeking records for commercial use, the NTSB will provide the following items without charge:

(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent) of a record; and

(ii) The first two hours of search (or the cost equivalent) for a record.

(5) Whenever the total fee calculated under paragraph (c) of this section is $14.00 or less for any request, the NTSB will not charge a fee.

(6) The NTSB will not charge fees for ordinary packaging and mailing costs.

(7) When the FOIA Office determines or estimates that fees to be charged under this section will amount to more than $25.00, the Office will notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for the search, review or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If the FOIA Office is able to estimate only a portion of the expected fee, the FOIA Office will advise the requester that the estimated fee may be only a portion of the total fee. Where the FOIA Office notifies a requester that the actual or estimated fees will exceed $25.00, the NTSB will not expend additional agency resources on the request until the requester agrees in writing to pay the anticipated total fee. The NTSB does not accept payments in installments.

(8) In circumstances involving a total fee that will exceed $250.00, or if the requester has previously failed to pay fees in a timely fashion, the NTSB may require the requester to make an advance payment or deposit of a specific amount before beginning to process the request. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar dates after the date of the FOIA Office's fee determination, the request will be closed.

(9) The NTSB may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date of billing the requester. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided at 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the date of the billing until the NTSB receives payment. The NTSB will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982, Public Law 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749, as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.

(10) Where the NTSB reasonably believes that a requester or group of requesters acting together is attempting to divide a request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, the NTSB may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly.

(11) The NTSB will make the FOIA Public Liaison available to assist the requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
