
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VIII - National Transportation Safety Board
#### PART 802 - RULES IMPLEMENTING THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### Subpart E - Review of Initial Adverse Determination
###### ยง 802.14 Review procedure and judicial review.
####### Review of denial of correction or amendment.

(2)If the appeal upholds the denial in whole or in part for correction or amendment of the record, the same notification and judicial review privileges described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall apply.

(d) If the denial is reversed on appeal, the Board shall notify the requester in writing of the reversal. The notice shall include a brief statement outlining those portions of the individual's record which were not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete, and corrections of the record which were made, and shall provide the individual with a courtesy copy of the corrected record.

(e) Copies of all appeals and written determinations will be furnished by the System Manager to the Board.

(f) In unusual circumstances, time limits may be extended by not more than 10 working days by written notice to the individual making the request. The notice shall include the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be forthcoming. "Unusual circumstances" as used in this section shall include circumstances where a search and collection of the requested records from field offices or other establishments are required, cases where a voluminous amount of data is involved, and cases where consultations are required with other agencies or with others having a substantial interest in the determination of the request.
