
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VIII - National Transportation Safety Board
#### PART 803 - OFFICIAL SEAL
##### ยง 803.5 Use of the Seal.

(a) The Seal is the official emblem of the Board and its use is therefore permitted only as provided in this part.

(b) Use by any person or organization outside of the Board may be made only with the Board's prior written approval.

(c) Requests by any person or organization outside of the Board for permission to use the Seal must be made in writing to Director, Office of Administration, National Transportation Safety Board, 490 L'Enfant Plaza, SW., Washington, DC 20594-003. The request must specify in detail the exact use to be made. Any permission granted shall apply only to the specific use for which it was granted.

(d) Use of the Seal shall be essentially for informational purposes. The Seal may not be used on any article or in any manner which may discredit the Seal or reflect unfavorably upon the Board, or which implies Board endorsement of commercial products or services, or of the user's or users' policies or activities. Specifically, permission may not be granted under this section for nonofficial use-

(1) On souvenir or novelty items of an expendable nature;

(2) On toys, gifts, or premiums;

(3) As a letterhead design;

(4) On menus, matchbook covers, calendars, or similar items;

(5) To adorn civilian clothing; or

(6) On athletic clothing or equipment.

(e) Where necessary to avoid any prohibited implication or confusion as to the Board's association with the user or users, an appropriate legend will be prescribed by the Board for prominent display in connection with the permitted use.

(f) Falsely making, forging, counterfeiting, mutilating, or altering the Seal, or knowingly using or possessing with fraudulent intent any altered Seal is punishable under section 506 of Title 18, U.S.C.
