
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VIII - National Transportation Safety Board
#### PART 831 - INVESTIGATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Marine Investigations
###### ยง 831.63 Provision and dissemination of investigative information.
####### Release of information.

(c)Parties are prohibited from releasing information obtained during an investigation at any time prior to the NTSB's public release of information unless the release is consistent with the following criteria:

(1) Information released at the scene of a marine casualty or major marine casualty:

(i) Is limited to factual developments concerning the accident and the investigation released in coordination with the IIC; and

(ii) Will be made by the Board Member present at the scene as the official spokesperson for the NTSB. If no Board Member is present, information will be released by a representative of the NTSB's Office of Media Relations or the IIC. To the maximum extent practicable, the NTSB will inform the USCG of its planned releases of information before the release occurs.

(2) The release of information described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section by the NTSB at the scene of a marine casualty or major marine casualty does not authorize any party to the investigation to comment publicly on the information during the course of the investigation. Any dissemination of factual information by a party may be made only as provided in this section.

(3) A party may disseminate information related to an investigation to those individuals within its organization who have a need to know for the purpose of addressing a safety issue, including preventive or remedial actions. If such internal release of information results in a planned safety improvement, the party must inform the IIC of such planned improvement in a timely manner before it is implemented.

(4) Any other release of factual information related to the investigation must be approved by the IIC prior to release, including:

(i) Dissemination within a party organization, for a purpose not described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section;

(ii) Documents that provide information concerning the investigation, such as written directives or informational updates for release to employees or customers of a party; and

(iii) Information related to the investigation released to an organization or person that is not a party to the investigation.

(d) The release of recordings or transcripts from certain recorders may be made only in accordance with the statutory limitations of 49 U.S.C. 1114(c), 1114(d), and 1154(a).
