
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter VIII - National Transportation Safety Board
#### PART 831 - INVESTIGATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Marine Investigations
###### ยง 831.61 Parties to the investigation.
####### Participants.

(a)(1) The IIC may designate one or more entities to serve as parties in an investigation. The NTSB will provide to the USCG the opportunity to participate in all NTSB investigations and investigative activities the NTSB conducts under this subpart. For all other organizations, party status is limited to those persons, government agencies (Federal, state, or local), companies, and organizations whose employees, functions, activities, or products were involved in the marine casualty or major marine casualty and that can provide suitable qualified technical personnel actively to assist in an investigation. To the extent practicable, a representative proposed by party organizations to participate in the investigation may not be a person who had direct involvement in the major marine casualty or marine casualty under investigation.

(2) Except the USCG, no entity has a right to participate in an NTSB marine investigation as a party.

(3) Participants in an investigation (e.g., party representatives, party coordinators, and the larger party organization) must respond to direction from NTSB representatives.

(4) No party representative may-

(i) Occupy a legal position; or

(ii) Be a person who also represents claimants or insurers.

(5) Party status may be revoked or suspended if a party fails to comply with either paragraph (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section. Sanctions may also be imposed if a party withholds information or acts in a manner prejudicial or disruptive to an investigation.
