
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1002 - FEES
###### ยง 1002.1 Fees for records search, review, copying, certification, and related services.

Certifications and copies of such tariffs, reports and other public records and documents on file with the Surface Transportation Board as may be practicable to furnish, as well as searches and copying of records not considered public under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), will be furnished on the following basis:

(a) Certificate of the Records Officer, $21.00.

(b) Services involved in examination of tariffs or schedules for preparation of certified copies of tariffs or schedules or extracts therefrom at the rate of $49.00 per hour.

(c) Services involved in checking records to be certified to determine authenticity, including clerical work, etc. incidental thereto, at a rate of $34.00 per hour.

(d) Copies or computer printouts of tariffs, reports, and other public documents, at the rate of $.25 per letter or legal size exposure, only after the first 100 pages, with a minimum charge of $7.50. Copies of electronic records, audiovisual materials, or other forms of data are available at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.

(e) Fees for courier services to transport agency records to provide on-site access to agency records stored off-site will be set at the rates set forth in the Board's agreement with its courier service provider. Rate information can be obtained from the Board's Records Officer, Surface Transportation Board, Washington, DC 20423-0001.

(f) The fees for search, review and copying services for records not considered public under the Freedom of Information Act are as follows:

(1) When records are sought for commercial use, requesters will be assessed the full and reasonable direct costs of document search, review and duplication. A "commercial use" request refers to a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made.

(2) When records are not sought for commercial use and a request is made by an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, requesters will be assessed only for the cost of duplication (excluding charges for the first 100 pages). The term "Educational Institution" refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education, which operates a program of scholarly research. The term "noncommercial scientific institution" refers to an institution that is not operated on a "commercial" basis and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. They must show that their request is authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution and the records are not sought for a commercial use but, instead, are in furtherance of scholarly or scientific research.

(3) Requesters who are representatives of the news media (persons actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public) will be assessed only for the cost of duplication (excluding charges for the first 100 pages) if they can show that their request is not made for a commercial use. A request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered a request for a commercial use.

(4) All other requesters will be assessed fees which recover the full, reasonable direct cost of searching for and duplicating records that are responsive to the request (excluding charges for the first 100 pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time).

(5) All requesters must reasonably describe the records sought.
