
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1007 - RECORDS CONTAINING INFORMATION ABOUT INDIVIDUALS
###### § 1007.5 Disclosure of requested information to individuals; fees for copies of records.

(a) Any individual who has requested access to his or her record or to any information pertaining to that individual in the manner prescribed in § 1007.3 and has identified himself or herself as prescribed in § 1007.4 shall be permitted to review the record and have a copy made of all or any portion thereof in a form comprehensible to the individual, subject to fees for copying services set forth in paragraph (f) of this section. Upon request, persons of the individual's own choosing may accompany the individual, provided that the individual has furnished a written statement authorizing discussion of his or her record in the accompanying person's presence.

(b) Access will generally be granted in the office of the Board where the records are maintained during normal business hours, but for good cause shown the Board may grant access at another office of the Board or at different times for the convenience of the individual making the request. When a request for access is from a Board employee, this request may be granted by forwarding the information desired through registered mail, return receipt requested.

(c) Where a document containing information about an individual also contains information not pertaining to him or her, the portion not pertaining to the individual shall not be disclosed except to the extent the information is available to any person under the Freedom of Information Act. If the records sought cannot be provided for review and copying in a meaningful form, the Board shall provide to the individual a summary of the information concerning the individual contained in the record or records which shall be complete and accurate in all material aspects.

(d) Where the disclosure involves medical records, the Privacy Officer may determine that such information will be provided only to a physician designated by the individual.

(e) Requests for copies of documents may be directed to the Privacy Officer or to the member of the Board's staff through whom arrangements for access were made.

(f) Fees for copies of records shall be charged at the rate set forth in 49 CFR 1002.1(d). Fees for requests requiring the use of a computer shall be charged at the actual cost for machine time. Payment should be made by check or money order payable to the Treasury of the United States. When it is determined to be in the best interest of the public, the Privacy Officer may waive the fee provision.

(g) Nothing in this subsection or in § 1007.3 shall:

(1) Require the disclosure of records exempted under § 1007.12 of these rules, including the exemption relating to investigative records;

(2) Allow an individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding or a criminal proceeding; or,

(3) Require the furnishing of information or records which in the regular course of business cannot be retrieved by the name or other identifier of the individual making the request.
