
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1007 - RECORDS CONTAINING INFORMATION ABOUT INDIVIDUALS
###### ยง 1007.3 Requests by an individual for information or access.

(a) Any individual may request information on whether a system of records maintained by the Board contains any information pertaining to him or her, or may request access to his or her record or to any information pertaining to him or her which is contained in a system of records. All requests shall be directed to the Privacy Officer, Surface Transportation Board, 395 E Street, SW., Washington, DC 20423-0001.

(b) A request for information or for access to records under this part may be made by mail or in person. The request shall:

(1) Be in writing and signed by the individual making the request; and,

(2) Include the full name of the individual seeking the information or record, along with his or her home and business addresses and telephone numbers.

(c) For each system of records from which information is sought, the request shall:

(1) Specify the title and identifying number as it appears in the system notice published by the Board;

(2) Provide such additional identifying information, if any, as may be required by the system notice;

(3) Describe the specific information or kind of information sought within that system of records; and,

(4) Set forth any unusual arrangements sought concerning the time, place, or form of access.

(d) The Board will respond in writing to a request made under this section within ten days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) after receipt of the request. If a definitive reply cannot be given within ten days, the request will be acknowledged and an explanation will be given of the status of the request.

(e) The individual either will be notified in writing of where and when he or she may obtain access to the records requested or will be given the name, address and telephone number of the member of the Board staff with whom he or she should communicate to make further arrangements for access.
