
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1011 - BOARD ORGANIZATION; DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
###### ยง 1011.2 The Board.

(a) The Board reserves to itself for consideration and disposition:

(1) All rulemaking and similar proceedings involving the promulgation of rules or the issuance of statements of general policy.

(2) All investigations and other proceedings instituted by the Board, except as may be ordered in individual situations.

(3) All administrative appeals in a matter previously considered by the Board.

(4) All other matters submitted for decision except those assigned to an individual Board Member or employee or an employee board.

(5) Except for matters assigned to the Chairman of the Board under ยง 1011.4(a)(6):

(i) The determination of whether to reconsider a decision being challenged in court;

(ii) The disposition of matters that have been the subject of an adverse decision by a court; and

(iii) The determination of whether to file any memorandum or brief or otherwise participate on behalf of the Board in any court.

(6) The disposition of all matters involving issues of general transportation importance, and the determination whether issues of general transportation importance are involved in any matter.

(7) All appeals of initial decisions issued by the Director of the Office of Proceedings under the authority delegated by ยง 1011.7(a), and all appeals of initial decisions issued by the Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance under the authority delegated by ยง 1011.7(b). Appeals must be filed within 10 days after service of the Director decision or publication of the notice, and replies must be filed within 10 days after the due date for appeals or any extension thereof.

(b) The Board may bring before it any matter assigned to an individual Board Member or employee or employee board.
