
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1007 - RECORDS CONTAINING INFORMATION ABOUT INDIVIDUALS
###### § 1007.9 Appeals to the Chairman.

(a) Any individual may petition the Chairman:

(1) To review a refusal to comply with an individual request for access to records pursuant to the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1)), and §§ 1007.3 and 1007.5 in this part;

(2) To review denial of a request for amendment made pursuant to § 1007.8;

(3) To correct any determination that may have been made adverse to the individual based in whole or in part upon inaccurate, irrelevant, untimely or incomplete information; and,

(4) To correct a failure to comply with any other provision of the Privacy Act and the rules of this part 1007, which has had an adverse effect on the individual.

(b) The petition to the Chairman shall be in writing and shall: (1) State in what manner it is claimed the Board or any Board employee has failed or refused to comply with provisions of the Privacy Act or of the rules contained in this part 1007, and (2) set forth the corrective action the petitioner wishes the Board to take. The petitioner may, if he or she wishes, state such facts and cite such legal or other authorities as are considered appropriate.

(c) The Chairman will make a determination of any petition filed pursuant to this subsection within thirty days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) after receipt of the petition, unless for good cause shown, the Chairman extends the 30-day period. If a petition is denied, the petitioner will be notified in writing of the reasons for such denial, and the provisions for judicial review of that determination which are set forth in section 552a(g) (1)(A) and (2)(A), of Title 5 of the United States Code and the provisions for disputed records set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) If, after review, the Chairman declines to amend the records as the individual has requested, the individual may file with the Privacy Officer a concise statement setting forth why he or she disagrees with the Chairman's denial of the request. Any subsequent disclosure containing information about which a statement of disagreement has been filed shall clearly note the portion which is disputed and include a copy of a concise statement explaining its reasons for not making the amendments requested. Prior recipients of the disputed record will be provided a copy of any statement of dispute to the extent that an accounting of disclosures was maintained.
