
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1011 - BOARD ORGANIZATION; DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
###### ยง 1011.4 Delegations to individual Board Members.

(a) The following matters are referred to the Chairman of the Board:

(1) Entry of reparation orders responsive to findings authorizing the filing of statements of claimed damages as provided at 49 CFR part 1133.

(2) Extensions of time for compliance with orders and procedural matters in any formal case or pending matter, except appeals taken from the decision of a hearing officer on requests for discovery.

(3) Postponement of the effective date of orders in proceedings that are the subject of suits brought in a court to enjoin, suspend, or set aside the decision.

(4) Dismissal of complaints and applications on the unopposed motion of any party.

(5) Requests for access to waybills and to statistics reported under orders of the Board.

(6) Exercise of control over litigation arising under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), except for determinations whether to seek further judicial review of:

(i) A decision in which a court finds under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(F) that Board personnel may have acted arbitrarily or capriciously in improperly withholding records from disclosure; or

(ii) A decision in which a court finds under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(4) that Board personnel acted intentionally or willfully in violating the Privacy Act.

(7) Issuance of certificates and decisions authorizing Consolidated Rail Corporation to abandon or discontinue service over lines for which an application under section 308 of the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973, 45 U.S.C. 748, has been filed.

(8) Designation in writing of employees authorized to inspect and copy records and to inspect and examine lands, buildings, and equipment pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 11144, 14122, and 15722.

(9) Authority to act alone to take necessary actions in emergency situations when the Chairman is the only Board member reasonably available.

(b) The following matters are referred to the Vice Chairman of the Board:

(1) Matters within the jurisdiction of the Accounting Board if certified to the Vice Chairman by the Accounting Board or if removed from the Accounting Board by the Vice Chairman.

(2) Matters involving the admission, disbarment, or discipline of practitioners before the Board under 49 CFR part 1103.

(c) The Chairman, Vice Chairman, or other Board Member to whom a matter is assigned under this part may certify such matter to the Board.

(d) The Chairman shall notify all Board Members that a petition for a stay has been referred to the Chairman for disposition under paragraphs (a)(2) or (3) of this section. The Chairman shall also inform all Board Members of the decision on that petition before service of such decision. At the request of a Board Member, made at any time before the Chairman's decision is served, the petition will be referred to the Board for decision.
