
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1012 - MEETINGS OF THE BOARD
###### ยง 1012.2 Time and place of meetings.

(a) Conferences, oral arguments, and other meetings are held at the Board's offices, unless advance notice of an alternative site is given. Room assignments will be posted at the Board on the day of the meeting.

(b) Regular Board conferences are held on the first and third Tuesdays of each month, or on the following day if the regular conference day is a holiday. Oral arguments before the Board are normally scheduled on the first or third Wednesday of each month. Regular Board conferences and oral arguments before the Board normally begin at 9:30 a.m. A luncheon recess is taken at approximately noon, and other recesses may be called by the presiding officer. Times for reconvening following a recess, or on subsequent days if a conference or oral argument lasts more than one day, are set by the presiding officer at the time the recess is announced.

(c) Special Board conferences or oral arguments are scheduled by the Chairman of the Board.

(d) If one or more portions of the same meeting are open to the public while another portion or other portions are closed, all those portions of the meeting which are open to the public are scheduled at the beginning of the meeting agenda, and are followed by those portions which are closed.
