
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1011 - BOARD ORGANIZATION; DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
###### ยง 1011.7 Delegations of authority by the Board to specific offices of the Board.
####### Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance.

(b)The Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance is delegated the authority to:

(1) Reject tariffs and railroad transportation contract summaries filed with the Board that violate applicable statutes, rules, or regulations. Any rejection of a tariff or contract summary may be by letter signed by or for the Director, Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance.

(2) Issue, on written request, informal opinions and interpretations on carrier tariff provisions, which are not binding on the Board.

(3) Grant or withhold special tariff authority granting relief from the provisions of 49 CFR part 1312. Any grant or withholding of such relief may be by letter signed by or for the Director, Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance.

(4) Resolve any disputes that may arise concerning the applicability of motor common carrier rates under 49 U.S.C. 13710(a)(2).

(5) Issue orders by the Director in an emergency under 49 U.S.C. 11123 and 11124 if no Board Member is reasonably available.

(6) Issue, on written request, informal opinions and interpretations which are not binding on the Board. In issuing informal opinions or interpretations, the Director of the Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance shall consult with the Directors of the appropriate Board offices. Such requests must be directed to the Director of the Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance, Surface Transportation Board, Washington, DC.

(7) Perform any arbitration duties specifically assigned to the Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance or its Director in 49 CFR part 1108, subpart B.
