
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1012 - MEETINGS OF THE BOARD
###### ยง 1012.7 Meetings which may be closed to the public.
####### Provided,

(3) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than 5 U.S.C. 552);That such statute (A) requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or (B) establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld.

(4) Disclose trade secrets or commercial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential.

(5) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person.

(6) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.

(7) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would (i) interfere with enforcement proceedings, (ii) deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication, (iii) constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, (iv) disclose the identity of a confidential source and (in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation) disclose confidential information furnished only by the confidential source, (v) disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or (vi) endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel.

(8) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which could (i) lead to significant financial speculation in currencies, securities, or commodities, or (ii) significantly endanger the stability of any financial institution.

(9) Disclose information, the premature disclosure of which would be likely significantly to frustrate implementation of a proposed Board action, except that this subparagraph shall not apply in any instance after the content or nature of the proposed Board action has already been disclosed to the public by the Board, or where the Board is required by law to make such disclosure prior to the taking of final Board action on such proposal.

(10) Specifically concern the issuance of a subpoena.

(11) Specifically concern the Board's participation in a civil action or proceeding or an arbitration.

(12) Specifically concern the initiation, conduct, or disposition of a particular case or formal adjudication conducted pursuant to the procedures in 5 U.S.C. 554 or otherwise involving a determination on the record after an opportunity for hearing.
