
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1018 - DEBT COLLECTION
###### Subpart B - Administrative Collection of Claims
####### § 1018.23 Use of consumer reporting agencies.

(a) In addition to assessing interest, penalties, and administrative costs under § 1018.30 of this part, the Board may report a debt that has been delinquent for 90 days to a consumer reporting agency, if all the conditions of this paragraph are met.

(1) The debtor has not:

(i) Paid or agreed to pay the debt under a written payment plan that has been signed by the debtor and agreed to by the Board; or

(ii) Filed for review of the debt under § 1018.23(a)(2)(iv) of this section.

(2) The Board has included a notification in the third written demand (see § 1018.20(b)) to the debtor stating:

(i) That the account has been reviewed and payment of the debt is delinquent;

(ii) That, within not less than 60 days after the date of notification, the Board intends to disclose to a consumer reporting agency that the individual is responsible for the debt;

(iii) The specific information to be disclosed to the consumer reporting agency; and

(iv) That the debtor has the right to a complete explanation of the debt (if that has not already been given), to dispute information on Board records about the debt, and to request reconsideration of the debt by administrative appeal or review of the debt.

(3) The Board has sent at least one written demand by either registered or certified mail with the notification described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) The Board has reconsidered its initial decision on the debt when the debtor has requested a review under § 1018.23(a)(2)(iv).

(5) The Board has taken reasonable action to locate a debtor for whom the Board does not have a current address to send the notifications provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(b) If there is a substantial change in the condition or amount of the debt, the Board shall:

(1) Promptly disclose that fact(s) to each consumer reporting agency to which the original disclosure was made;

(2) Promptly verify or correct information about the debt, on request of a consumer reporting agency for verification of any or all information so disclosed by the Board; and

(3) Obtain satisfactory assurances from each consumer reporting agency that they are complying with all applicable Federal, state, and local laws relating to its use of consumer credit information.

(c) The information the Board discloses to the consumer reporting agency is limited to:

(1) Information necessary to establish the identity of the individual debtor, including name, address, and taxpayer identification number;

(2) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and

(3) The Board activity under which the claim arose.
