
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### § 1.25 Delegations to the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy.
####### et seq.

(f) Carry out the functions of the Secretary pertaining to aircraft with respect to Transportation Order T-1 (44 CFR chapter IV) under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, Pub. L. 81-774, 64 Stat. 798 [50 U.S.C. App. 2061] and Executive Order 10480, as amended (see also Executive Order 10773 and 12919).

(g) Serve as Department of Transportation member of the Interagency Group on International Aviation, and pursuant to Executive Order 11382, as amended, serve as Chair of the Group.

(h) Serve as second alternate representing the Secretary of Transportation to the Trade Policy Committee as mandated by Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979 (5 U.S.C. App. at 1381), as amended, and Executive Order 12188, as amended.

(i) As supplemented by 14 CFR part 385, and except as provided in §§ 1.99(j) (RITA), and 1.27 (General Counsel) of this part, carry out the functions transferred to the Department from the Civil Aeronautics Board and other related functions and authority vested in the Secretary under the following:

(1) Sections 40103(a)(2) (relating to the consultation with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board before prescribing regulations or procedures that will have a significant impact on accessibility of commercial airports for handicapped individuals), and (c) (relating to foreign aircrafts); 40105 (relating to international negotiations, agreements, and obligations); 40109(a), (c), (g), 46301(b) (smoke alarm penalty), (d), (f), (g) (relating to the authority to exempt certain air carriers) and (h); 40113(a) and (c); 40114(a) (relating to reports and records); 40115 (relating to the withholding of information from public disclosure) of Chapter 401 of 49 U.S.C.; and 40116 (relating to the Anti-Head Tax Act);

(2) The following chapters of title 49, U.S.C., except as related to departmental regulation of airline consumer protection and civil rights which is delegated to the General Counsel at § 1.27:

(i) Chapter 411 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to air carrier certification;

(ii) Chapter 413 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to foreign air transportation;

(iii) Chapter 415 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to pricing;

(iv) Chapter 417 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to the operations of air carriers, except sections 41721-41723;

(v) Chapter 419 of title 49, U.S.C. and 39 U.S.C. 5402, relating to the transportation of mail; and

(vi) Section 42303 of 49 U.S.C., relating to the management of the Web site regarding the use of insecticides in passenger aircraft.

(3) Section 42111 of title 49, U.S.C. with respect to mutual aid agreements as it relates to foreign air transportation;

(4) Chapters 461 and 463 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to aviation investigations, proceedings, and penalties under Part A of Subtitle VII of title 49, U.S.C. except for those sections delegated to the General Counsel under § 1.27, and to the Federal Aviation Administrator under § 1.83;

(5) Chapter 473 of title 49, U.S.C., relating to international airport facilities.

(6) Section 11 of the Clayton Act, Pub. L. 63-212 [15 U.S.C. 21], relating to air carriers and foreign air carriers.

(7) Section 3 of An Act to Encourage Travel in the United States, and for other purposes, Pub. L. 76-755, 54 Stat. 773 [16 U.S.C. 18b].

(8) Sections 108(a)(4), 621(b)(5), 704(a)(5), and 814(b)(5) of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, Pub. L. 90-321 [15 U.S.C. 1607(a)(4), 1681s(b)(5), 1691c(a)(5), and 1692l(b)(5)].

(j) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 44907(b)(1), (c), and (e) related to the security of foreign airports in coordination with the General Counsel, the Federal Aviation Administrator, and the Assistant Secretary for Administration.

(k) Carry out section 101(a)(2) of the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, Pub. L. 107-42 [49 U.S.C. 40101 note], as delegated to the Secretary of Transportation by the President pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum dated September 25, 2001, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 911.

(l) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by section 11143 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, Pub. L. 109-59, 119 Stat. 1144 (SAFETEA-LU), to manage the day-to-day activities associated with implementation of section 11143 regarding private activity bonds and tax-exempt financing of highway projects and rail-truck facilities.

(m) In coordination with the General Counsel, carry out the duties of the Secretary under Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 to establish the values of time and statistical life in connection with assessing the costs and benefits of Departmental regulatory action.

(n) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 47129, relating to resolution of disputes over the reasonableness of fees imposed upon air carriers.

(o) Carry out the functions and exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 23 U.S.C. 167(f) (National Freight Strategic Plan).
