
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter A - General Rules and Regulations
##### PART 1033 - CAR SERVICE
###### ยง 1033.1 Car hire rates.
####### Fixed rate cars.

(b)Car hire for fixed rate cars shall be determined as follows:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, for a 10-year period beginning January 1, 1993, the prescribed rates shall continue to apply to fixed rate cars without regard to the aging of such cars subsequent to December 31, 1990. Prescribed car hire rates shall not be increased for any additions and betterments performed on such cars after December 31, 1990. Any OT-37 surcharge to prescribed rates for work performed prior to January 1, 1993 shall expire upon the earlier of:

(i) The car becoming a market rate car; or

(ii) The expiration date provided in Association of American Railroads Circular No. OT-37.

(2) Upon termination of the 10-year period specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, all fixed rate cars shall be deemed to be market rate cars and shall be governed by paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) (i) During each calendar year beginning January 1, 1994, a rail carrier may voluntarily elect to designate up to 10% of the cars in its fleet as of January 1, 1993 to be treated as market rate cars for the purposes of this section. The 10% limitation shall apply each calendar year and shall be noncumulative. Cars designated to be treated as market rate cars shall be governed by paragraph (c) of this section. Such election shall be effective only in accordance with the following provisions:

(A) An election shall be irrevocable and binding as to the rail carrier making the election and all users and subsequent owners if:
