
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1103 - PRACTITIONERS
###### Subpart A - General Information
####### ยง 1103.3 Persons not attorneys-at-law - qualifications and requirements for practice before the Board.
######## Qualifications standards.

(b)A non-attorney applicant for admission to practice must meet one of the following requirements:

(1) An applicant must have completed 2 years (60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours) of post secondary education and must possess technical knowledge, training or experience in the field of transportation which is regarded by the Board as the equivalent of 2 additional years of college education;

(2) An applicant must have worked in the field of transportation for at least 10 years;

(3) An applicant must have received a bachelor's degree with at least 12 semester hours or 18 quarter hours in transportation or business; or

(4) An applicant must have received a bachelor's degree and worked in the field of transportation for at least one year. An applicant's statement of college education must be supported by a transcript of records attached to the original application. Transcripts from any college accredited by the U.S. Department of Education will be accepted without question. With all other institutions, the burden of proof is on the applicant to establish that the formal education satisfies the standards set forth above. The qualifications standards are intended as general guidelines. Individual situations that vary from the standards will continue to be evaluated on their own merits.
