
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1103 - PRACTITIONERS
###### Subpart A - General Information
####### ยง 1103.3 Persons not attorneys-at-law - qualifications and requirements for practice before the Board.
######## Additional certification.

(e)(1) When an application meets the required standards, a copy will be referred to the Association of Surface Transportation Board Practitioners for a report to the Board as to the reputation and character of the applicant. Inquiry also will be made by the Board of the sponsors as to their knowledge of the applicant's legal and technical qualifications as contemplated by the Board's Rules of Practice. If the Board is satisfied as to the applicant's qualifications, reputation and character, then applicant will be considered eligible to take the examination.

(2) The Board may require an applicant's sponsors to provide a detailed statement of the nature and extent of their knowledge of applicant's qualifications. Upon consideration of this material, if the Board is not satisfied as to the adequacy of applicant's qualifications, the applicant will be notified by registered mail. Applicant may then request a hearing to prove his qualifications. If applicant makes such a request, the Board will allow a hearing. In the absence of a request for a hearing within 20 days after receipt of the notice, the application will be considered withdrawn.
