
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1103 - PRACTITIONERS
###### Subpart B - Canons of Ethics
####### The Practitioner's Duties and Responsibilities Regarding Witnesses, Other Litigants and the Public
######## ยง 1103.27 Candor and fairness in dealing with other litigants.

(a) The conduct of practitioners before the Board and with other practitioners should be characterized by candor and fairness. The practitioner shall observe scrupulously the principles of fair dealing and just consideration for the rights of others.

(b) It is not candid or fair for a practitioner knowingly to misstate or misquote the contents of a paper, the testimony of a witness, the language or the argument of an opposing practitioner, or the language or effect of a decision or a text book; or, with knowledge of its invalidity to cite as authority a decision which has been overruled or otherwise impaired as a precedent or a statute which has been repealed; or in argument to assert as a fact that which has not been proved, or to mislead his opponent by concealing or withholding positions in his opening argument upon which his side then intends to rely.

(c) It is dishonorable to deal other than candidly with the facts in taking the statements of witnesses, in drawing affidavits and other documents, and in the presentation of cases.

(d) A practitioner shall not offer evidence which he knows the Board should reject, in order to get the same before the Board by argument for its admissibility, or arguments upon any point not properly calling for determination. He shall not introduce into an argument remarks or statements intended to influence the bystanders.

(e) A practitioner shall rely on his judgment concerning matters incidental to the trial which may, in some cases, affect the proceeding. For example, a practitioner should not force a matter to trial when there is affliction or bereavement on the part of the opposing practitioner if no harm will come from postponing the proceeding.

(f) A practitioner shall not ignore known customs or practice of the Board, even when the law permits, without giving timely notice to the opposing practitioner.

(g) Insofar as is possible, important agreements affecting the rights of the clients should be made in writing. It is, however, dishonorable to avoid performance of an agreement fairly made only because it is not made in writing.
