
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1104 - FILING WITH THE BOARD-COPIES-VERIFICATION-SERVICE-PLEADINGS, GENERALLY
###### ยง 1104.2 Document specifications.

(a) Documents, except electronic filings, filed with the Board must be on white paper not larger than 8by 11 inches, including any tables, charts, or other documents that may be included. Ink must be dark enough to provide substantial contrast for scanning and photographic reproduction. Text must be double-spaced (except for footnotes and long quotations, which may be single-spaced), using type not smaller than 12 point. Printing may appear only on one side of the paper for original documents, but copies of filings may be printed on both sides of the paper.

(b) In order to facilitate automated processing in document sheet feeders, original documents of more than one page may not be bound in any permanent form (no metal, plastic, or adhesive staples or binders) but must be held together with removable metal clips or similar retainers. Original documents may not include divider tabs, but copies must if workpapers or expert witness testimony are submitted. All pages of original documents, and each side of pages that are printed on both sides, must be paginated continuously, including cover letters and attachments. Where, as a result of assembly processes, such pagination is impractical, documents may be numbered within the logical sequences of volumes or sections that make up the filing and need not be renumbered to maintain a single numbering sequence throughout the entire filing.

(c) Some filings or portions of filings will not conform to the standard paper specifications set forth in paragraph (a) of this section and may not be scannable. For example, electronic spreadsheets are not susceptible to scanning, but oversized documents, such as oversized maps and blueprints, may or may not be scannable. Filings that are not scannable will be referenced on-line and made available to the public at the Board's offices. If parties file oversized paper documents, they are encouraged to file, in addition to the oversized documents, representations of them that fit on the standard paper, either through reductions in size that do not undermine legibility, or through division of the oversized whole into multiple sequential pages. The standard paper representations must be identified and placed immediately behind the oversized documents they represent.

(d) Color printing may not be used for textual submissions. Use of color in filings is limited to images such as graphs, maps and photographs. To facilitate automated processing of color pages, color pages may not be inserted among pages containing text, but may be filed only as appendices or attachments to filings. Also, the original of any filing that includes color images must bear an obvious notation, on the cover sheet, that the filing contains color.
