
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1105 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS
###### § 1105.7 Environmental reports.
####### Additional Information for Rail Constructions.

(11)The following additional information should be included for rail construction proposals (including connecting track construction):

(i) Describe the proposed route(s) by State, county, and subdivision, including a plan view, at a scale not to exceed 1:24,000 (7minute U.S.G.S. quadrangle map), clearly showing the relationship to the existing transportation network (including the location of all highway and road crossings) and the right-of-way according to ownership and land use requirements.

(ii) Describe any alternative routes considered, and a no-build alternative (or why this would not be applicable), and explain why they were not selected.

(iii) Describe the construction plans, including the effect on the human environment, labor force requirements, the location of borrow pits, if any, and earthwork estimates.

(iv) Describe in detail the rail operations to be conducted upon the line, including estimates of freight (carloads and tonnage) to be transported, the anticipated daily and annual number of train movements, number of cars per train, types of cars, motive power requirements, proposed speeds, labor force, and proposed maintenance-of-way practices.

(v) Describe the effects, including indirect or down-line impacts, of the new or diverted traffic over the line if the thresholds governing energy, noise and air impacts in §§ 1105.7(e)(4), (5), or (6) are met.

(vi) Describe the effects, including impacts on essential public services (e.g., fire, police, ambulance, neighborhood schools), public roads, and adjoining properties, in communities to be traversed by the line.

(vii) Discuss societal impacts, including expected change in employment during and after construction.
