
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1108 - ARBITRATION OF CERTAIN DISPUTES SUBJECT TO THE STATUTORY JURISDICTION OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
###### Subpart A - General Arbitration Procedures
####### ยง 1108.5 Arbitration commencement procedures.
######## Answer to the complaint.

(b)Any respondent must, within 20 days of the date of the filing of a complaint, answer the complaint. The answer must state whether the respondent is a participant in the Board's arbitration program, or whether the respondent is willing to arbitrate the particular dispute.

(1) If the complaint requests arbitration by a single arbitrator instead of by an arbitration panel, the answer must contain a statement consenting to arbitration by a single arbitrator or an express rejection of that request.

(i) The respondent may also initiate a request to use a single arbitrator instead of an arbitration panel.

(ii) Absent the parties agreeing to arbitration through a single arbitrator, the Board will assign the case to arbitration by a panel of three arbitrators as provided by ยง 1108.6(a) through (d). The party requesting the single arbitrator shall at that time provide written notice to the Board and the other parties if it continues to object to a three-member arbitration panel. Upon timely receipt of the notice, the Board shall the set the case for formal adjudication by the Board.

(2) When the complaint limits the arbitrable issues, the answer must state whether the respondent agrees to those limitations or, if the respondent is already a participant in the Board's arbitration program, whether those limitations are consistent with the respondent's opt-in notice filed with the Board pursuant to ยง 1108.3(a)(1)(i). If the answer contains an agreement to arbitrate some but not all of the arbitration-program-eligible issues in the complaint, the complainant will have 10 days from the date of the answer to advise the respondent and the Board in writing whether the complainant is willing to arbitrate on that basis.

(3) When the complaint proposes a lower amount of potential liability, the answer must state whether the respondent agrees to that amount in lieu of the otherwise applicable monetary award cap.
