
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1108 - ARBITRATION OF CERTAIN DISPUTES SUBJECT TO THE STATUTORY JURISDICTION OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
###### Subpart B - Voluntary Program for Arbitration of Small Freight Rail Rate Disputes
####### ยง 1108.22 Statement of purpose, organization, and jurisdiction.
######## Establishment and Term of the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program

(b)-(1) The regulations contained in this subpart will not become operable until the Board issues a notice in thecommencing the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program. A copy of the notice will also be issued in Docket No. EP 765 and will be posted on the Board's website.

(2) The Board will promptly issue the notice commencing the arbitration program upon receipt of the required opt-in notices specified in ยง 1108.23(a) from all existing Class I carriers. If the Board does not receive opt-in notices from all existing Class I carriers, the notice will not be issued and the regulations in this subpart will not become operable, including any exemption from FORR. The notice will establish an initial five-year term for the program, beginning from the date the notice is issued.

(3) Class I carriers must indicate whether they choose to voluntarily participate in the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program by February 23, 2023, by filing the notice specified in ยง 1108.23(a) with the Board.
