
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1108 - ARBITRATION OF CERTAIN DISPUTES SUBJECT TO THE STATUTORY JURISDICTION OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
###### Subpart B - Voluntary Program for Arbitration of Small Freight Rail Rate Disputes
####### ยง 1108.22 Statement of purpose, organization, and jurisdiction.
######## The Board's intent.

(a)The Board favors the resolution of disputes through the use of mediation and arbitration procedures, in lieu of formal Board proceedings, whenever possible. This subpart establishes a binding and voluntary arbitration program, the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program, that is tailored to rate disputes and open to all parties eligible to bring or defend rate disputes before the Board.

(1) The Small Rate Case Arbitration Program serves as an alternative to, and is separate and distinct from, the broader arbitration program set forth in subpart A of this part.

(2) By participating in the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program, parties consent to arbitrate rail rate disputes subject to the limits on potential liability set forth in ยง 1108.28.

(3) The Small Rate Case Arbitration Program will become operative only if all Class I carriers initially commit to participate in the program. Class I carriers that participate in the program agree to arbitrate rate disputes that meet the requirements of this subpart for a term of five years from the date the program becomes effective.

(4) In the event the Small Rate Case Arbitration program becomes operative, Class I carriers that participate will be exempt from having their rates challenged under Final Offer Rate Review, pursuant to ยง 1108.33, as long as they remain in the program.
