
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1108 - ARBITRATION OF CERTAIN DISPUTES SUBJECT TO THE STATUTORY JURISDICTION OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
###### Subpart B - Voluntary Program for Arbitration of Small Freight Rail Rate Disputes
####### § 1108.22 Statement of purpose, organization, and jurisdiction.
######## Renewal of the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program.

(c)(1) Approximately 60 days before the five-year term expires, the Board will issue another notice in therequesting that all existing Class I carriers that wish to participate in the program for another 5-year period file an opt-in notice pursuant to § 1108.23(a).

(2) The Small Rate Case Arbitration Program will become operative for an additional 5-year period only if all Class I carriers again commit to participate in the program. This requirement will apply even if one or more of the Class I carriers has previously withdrawn from the program pursuant to § 1108.23(c).

(3) The Board will promptly issue a notice in therenewing the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program for an additional five years upon receipt of the required opt-in notices specified in § 1108.23(a) from all existing Class I carriers. The regulations contained in this subpart will only remain operative if the Board issues such a notice. If the program is renewed, all of the regulations within this subpart shall remain in effect for the entirety of the 5-year renewal period, with the exception of § 1108.32.

(4) The Board will repeat this process to renew the arbitration program every five years for as long as the program remains in effect.

(5) At the end of any five-year period, if the arbitration program is not renewed, any pending arbitrations will continue until they are completed.
