
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1108 - ARBITRATION OF CERTAIN DISPUTES SUBJECT TO THE STATUTORY JURISDICTION OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
###### Subpart B - Voluntary Program for Arbitration of Small Freight Rail Rate Disputes
####### ยง 1108.23 Participation in the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program.
######## Procedures for withdrawal for change in law.

(2)A participating carrier or complainant may withdraw its consent to arbitrate under this subpart by filing with the Board a notice of withdrawal for change in law within 20 days of an event that qualifies as a basis for withdrawal as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(i) The notice of withdrawal for change in law shall state the basis or bases under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the party's withdrawal of its consent to arbitrate under this part. A copy of the notice must be served on any parties with which the carrier is currently engaged in arbitration. A copy of the notice will also be posted on the Board's website.

(ii) Any party may challenge the withdrawing party's withdrawal for change in law on the ground that the change is not material by filing a petition with the Board within 10 days of the filing of the notice of withdrawal being challenged. The withdrawing party may file a reply to the petition within 5 days from the filing of the petition. The petition shall be resolved by the Board within 14 days from the filing deadline for the withdrawing party's reply.

(iii) Subject to the stay provision of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the notice of withdrawal for change in law shall be effective on the day of its filing.
