
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1108 - ARBITRATION OF CERTAIN DISPUTES SUBJECT TO THE STATUTORY JURISDICTION OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
###### Subpart B - Voluntary Program for Arbitration of Small Freight Rail Rate Disputes
####### ยง 1108.26 Arbitrators.
######## For-cause objection to party-appointed arbitrator.

(1)Each side may object to the other side's selected arbitrator within two business days and only for cause. A party may make a for-cause objection where it has reason to believe a proposed arbitrator cannot act with the good faith, impartiality, and independence required of 49 U.S.C. 11708, including due to a conflict of interest, adverse business dealings with the objecting party, or actual or perceived bias or animosity toward the objecting party.

(i) The parties must confer over the objection within two business days.

(ii) If the objection remains unresolved after the parties confer, the objecting party shall immediately file an Objection to Party-Appointed Arbitrator with the Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance. The Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance shall arrange for a telephonic or virtual conference to be held before an Administrative Law Judge within two business days, or as soon as is practicable, to hear arguments regarding the objection(s). The Administrative Law Judge will provide its ruling in an order to all parties by the next business day after the telephonic or virtual conference.

(iii) The Objection to Party-Appointed Arbitrator filed with Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance and the telephonic or virtual conference, including any ruling on the objection, shall be confidential.
