
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1108 - ARBITRATION OF CERTAIN DISPUTES SUBJECT TO THE STATUTORY JURISDICTION OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
###### Subpart B - Voluntary Program for Arbitration of Small Freight Rail Rate Disputes
####### ยง 1108.27 Arbitration procedures.
######## Waybill Sample.

(g)(1) The Board's Office of Economics shall provide unmasked confidential Waybill Sample data to each party to the arbitration proceeding within seven days of the filing of a copy Joint Notice of Intent to Arbitrate with the Director and accompanying letter containing the relevant five-digit Standard Transportation Commodity Code information. Such data to be provided by the Office of Economics shall be limited to the most recent four years of movements on the defendant carriers.

(2) Parties may request additional Waybill Sample data from the Director of the Office of Economics pursuant to ยง 1244.9(b)(4) of this chapter. Parties must make such requests by submitting a formal filing (with a "WB" docket prefix). The decision of the Director may be appealed to the Board pursuant to ยง 1115.1. In the event of an appeal, the party filing the appeal shall immediately inform the other parties to the arbitration and the arbitration panel. The arbitration panel shall immediately stay the arbitration proceeding. After the Board issues a decision ruling on the appeal of the Director's decision, the arbitration panel shall lift the stay, the arbitration shall continue, and all procedural time limits will be tolled. The Director's decision (and, if necessary, the Board's decision ruling on appeal of the Director's decision) will be published as part of the separate Waybill docket, but the decision(s) will not be published until the Board receives the confidential summary the parties are required to file pursuant to ยง 1108.29(e).
