
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1108 - ARBITRATION OF CERTAIN DISPUTES SUBJECT TO THE STATUTORY JURISDICTION OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
###### Subpart B - Voluntary Program for Arbitration of Small Freight Rail Rate Disputes
####### ยง 1108.29 Decisions.
######## Market dominance.

(1)(i) The arbitration panel shall determine if the carrier whose rate is the subject of the arbitration has market dominance based on evidence submitted by the parties, unless paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section applies.

(ii) Subject to ยง 1108.27(e)(2), in determining the issue of market dominance, the arbitration panel under this subpart shall follow, at the complainant's discretion, either the streamlined market dominance test or the non-streamlined market dominance test.

(iii) The arbitration panel shall issue its decision on market dominance as part of its final arbitration decision.

(iv) The arbitration panel shall not consider evidence of product and geographic competition when deciding market dominance.

(v) The arbitration panel shall not consider evidence on the Limit Price Test when deciding market dominance.

(vi) If a carrier concedes that it possesses market dominance, the arbitration panel need not make a determination on market dominance and need only address the maximum lawful rate in the arbitration decision. Additionally, the parties may jointly request that the Board determine market dominance prior to initiating arbitration under this part.
