
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1110 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING INFORMAL RULEMAKING PROCEEDINGS
###### ยง 1110.3 Publication of notices.

(a) Interpretive rules, general statements of policy, and rules relating to organization, procedure, or practice may be issued as final without notice or other public rulemaking proceedings.

(b) General rulemaking proceedings will be opened by the issuance of either a notice of intent to institute a rulemaking proceeding, an advance notice of proposed rulemaking, or a notice of proposed rules. The Board will publish the notice in theand it will invite the public to participate in the rulemaking proceeding. No notice will be issued when the Board finds for good cause, that notice is impractical or unnecessary or contrary to the public interest.

(c) Notices of proposed rulemakings will include:

(1) The proposed rules, if prepared;

(2) A discussion of why the rulemakings are needed and what they are intended to accomplish;

(3) Identification of significant dates in the proceedings, such as dates by which comments must be filed or on which the rules are proposed to take effect;

(4) Any relevant addresses;

(5) The name and phone number of an individual within the Board who can provide further information concerning the proceedings;

(6) Any supplementary information required; and

(7) Reference to the legal authority under which the rules are proposed.

(d) In addition to being published in thenotices of proposed rulemaking and subsequent notices and decisions in rulemaking proceedings, will be served on the parties by the Office of Proceedings and made available to the public through the Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance. To the extent possible, the date of service will be the same as the date of publication in theWhen the service and publication dates are not the same, the date of publication in theis controlling for the purpose of determining time periods set by these procedures or by notices issued in individual proceedings.
