
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1111 - COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATION PROCEDURES
###### ยง 1111.9 Procedural schedule in stand-alone cost cases.
####### Procedural schedule.

(a)Absent a specific order by the Board, the following general procedural schedule will apply in stand-alone cost cases after the pre-complaint period initiated by the pre-filing notice:

(1) Day 0-Complaint filed, discovery period begins.

(2) Day 7 or before-Conference of the parties convened pursuant to ยง 1111.11(b).

(3) Day 20-Defendant's answer to complaint due.

(4) Day 150-Discovery completed.

(5) Day 210-Complainant files opening evidence on absence of intermodal and intramodal competition, variable cost, and stand-alone cost issues.

(6) Day 270-Defendant files reply evidence to complainant's opening evidence.

(7) Day 305-Complainant files rebuttal evidence to defendant's reply evidence. In cases using the streamlined market dominance approach, a telephonic evidentiary hearing before an administrative law judge, as described in ยง 1111.12(d) of this chapter, will be held at the discretion of the complainant in lieu of the submission of a written rebuttal on market dominance issues. The hearing will be held on or about the date that the complainant's rebuttal evidence on rate reasonableness is due.

(8) Day 335-Complainant and defendant file final briefs.

(9) Day 485 or before-The Board issues its decision.
