
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1114 - EVIDENCE; DISCOVERY
###### Subpart B - Discovery
####### ยง 1114.31 Failure to respond to discovery.
######## Motions to compel in stand-alone cost and simplified standards rate cases.

(2)(i) Motions to compel in stand-alone cost and simplified standards rate cases must include a certification that the movant has in good faith conferred or attempted to confer with the person or party failing to answer discovery to obtain it without Board intervention.

(ii) In a rate case to be considered under the stand-alone cost, Simplified-SAC, or Three-Benchmark methodologies, a reply to a motion to compel must be filed with the Board within 10 days of when the motion to compel is filed.

(iii) In a rate case under Final Offer Rate Review, each party may file one motion to compel that aggregates all discovery disputes with the other party. Each party's motion to compel, if any, shall be filed on the 10th day before the close of discovery (or, if not a business day, the last business day immediately before the 10th day). The procedural schedule will be tolled while motions to compel are pending. Replies to motions to compel in Final Offer Rate Review cases must be filed with the Board within 7 days of when the motion to compel is filed. Upon issuance of a decision on motions to compel, the procedural schedule resumes, and any party ordered to respond to discovery must do so within the remaining 10 days in the discovery period.
