
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1115 - APPELLATE PROCEDURES
###### ยง 1115.1 Scope of rule.

(a) These appellate procedures apply in cases where a hearing is required by law or Board action. They do not apply to informal matters such as car service, temporary authority, suspension, special permission actions, or to other matters of an interlocutory nature. Abandonments and discontinuance proceedings instituted under 49 U.S.C. 10903 are governed by separate appellate procedures exclusive to those proceedings. (See 49 CFR part 1152)

(b) Requests for appellate relief may relate either to initial decisions or to Board actions other than initial decisions. For each category, this rule describes the types of appeal permitted, the requirements to be observed in filing an appeal, provisions for stay of the action, and the status of the action in the absence of a stay.

(c) Appeals from the decisions of employees acting under authority delegated to them by the Chairman of the Board pursuant to ยง 1011.6 will be acted upon by the entire Board. Appeals must be filed within 10 days of the date of the action taken by the employee, and responses to appeals must be filed within 10 days thereafter. Such appeals are not favored; they will be granted only in exceptional circumstances to correct a clear error of judgment or to prevent manifest injustice.
