
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1115 - APPELLATE PROCEDURES
###### ยง 1115.2 Initial decisions.

This category includes the initial decision of an administrative law judge, individual Board Member, or employee board.

(a) An appeal of right is permitted.

(b) Appeals must be based on one or more of the following grounds:

(1) That a necessary finding of fact is omitted, erroneous, or unsupported by substantial evidence of record;

(2) That a necessary legal conclusion, or finding is contrary to law, Board precedent, or policy;

(3) That an important question of law, policy, or discretion is involved which is without governing precedent; or

(4) That prejudicial procedural error has occurred.

(c) Appeals must detail the assailed findings with supporting citations to the record and authorities.

(d) Appeals and replies shall not exceed 30 pages in length, including argument, and appendices or other attachments, but excluding a table of cases and an index of subject matter.

(e) Appeals must be filed within 20 days after the service date of the decision or within any further period (not to exceed 20 days) the Board may authorize. Replies must be filed within 20 days of the date the appeal is filed.

(f) The timely filing of an appeal to an initial decision will stay the effect of the action pending determination of the appeal.

(g) If an appeal of an initial decision is not timely filed or the Board does not stay the effectiveness on its own motion, the order set forth in the initial decision shall become the action of the Board and be effective at the expiration of the time for filing, unless otherwise provided.
