
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1133 - RECOVERY OF DAMAGES
###### ยง 1133.2 Statement of claimed damages based on Board findings.

(a) When the Board finds that damages are due, but that the amount cannot be ascertained upon the record before it, the complainant should immediately prepare a statement showing details of the shipments on which damages are claimed, in accordance with the following form:

(b) The statement should not include any shipment not covered by the Board's findings, or any shipment on which complaint was not filed with the Board within the statutory period. The filing of a statement will not stop the running of the statute of limitations as to shipments not covered by complaint or supplemental complaint. If the shipments moved over more than one route, a separate statement should be prepared for each route, and separately numbered, except that shipments as to which the collecting carrier is in each instance the same may be listed in a single statement if grouped according to routes. The statement, together with the paid freight bills on the shipments, or true copies thereof, should then be forwarded to the carrier which collected the charges, for verification and certification as to its accuracy. If the statement is not forwarded immediately to the collecting carrier for certification, a letter request from defendants that forwarding be expedited will be considered to the end that steps be taken to have the statement forwarded immediately. All discrepancies, duplications, or other errors in the statements should be adjusted by the parties and corrected agreed statements submitted to the Board. The certificate must be signed in ink by a general accounting officer of the carrier and should cover all of the information shown in the statement. If the carrier which collected the charges is not a defendant in the case, its certificate must be concurred in by like signature on behalf of a carrier defendant. Statements so prepared and certified shall be filed with the Board whereupon it will consider entry of a decision awarding damages.
