
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1135 - RAILROAD COST RECOVERY PROCEDURES
###### ยง 1135.2 Revenue Shortfall Allocation Method: Annual State tax information.
####### Simplified Standards for Rail Rate Cases,

(a) To enable the Board to calculate the revenue shortfall allocation method (RSAM), which is one of the three benchmarks that are used to determine the reasonableness of a challenged rate under one standard of the Board'sSTB Docket No. 646 (Sub-No. 1) (STB served Sept. 5, 2007), the Association of American Railroads (AAR) shall file with the Board, on or before May 30, the weighted average State tax rates applicable to each Class I railroad for the previous year. The AAR shall submit workpapers detailing its calculations.

(b) The Board will serve and publish a notice of the filing in thewithin 10 days of the AAR's filing.

(c) Any interested party may file comments on the AAR's filing within 30 days of the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section. If no comments are received within 30 days, the Board will automatically adopt the AAR's weighted average State tax rates on the 31st day. If comments opposing the AAR's calculations are received, the AAR's response will be due within 20 days of the comments. The Board will review the submission and comments and serve a decision within 60 days from the date of the close of the record that either accepts, rejects, or modifies the AAR's railroad-specific tax information.
