
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1150 - CERTIFICATE TO CONSTRUCT, ACQUIRE, OR OPERATE RAILROAD LINES
###### Subpart A - Applications Under 49 U.S.C. 10901
####### ยง 1150.3 Information about applicant(s).

(a) The name, address, and phone number of the representative to receive correspondence concerning this application.

(b) Facts showing that applicant is either a common carrier by railroad or has been organized to implement the proposal for which approval is being sought.

(c) A statement indicating whether the rail line will be operated by applicant. If not, the operator which has been selected must join in the application, and provide all information required for an applicant. If the operator has not yet been selected, state who is being considered.

(d) A statement indicating whether applicant is affiliated by stock ownership or otherwise with any industry to be served by the line. If so, provide details about the nature and extent of the affiliation.

(e) Date and place of organization, applicable State statutes, and a brief description of the nature and objectives of the organization.

(f) If a corporation, submit:

(1) A list of officers, directors, and 10 principal stockholders of the corporation and their respective holdings. A statement whether any of these officers, directors or major shareholders control other regulated carriers. Also a list of entities, corporation(s) individual(s), or group(s) who control applicant, the extent of control, and whether any of them control other common carriers.

(2) As exhibit A, any resolution of the stockholders or directors authorizing the proposal.

(g) If a partnership or individual, submit the name and address of all general partners and their respective interests, and whether any of them control other carriers.

(h) If applicant is an entity other than as described in paragraphs (f) or (g) of this section, submit name, title, and business address of principals or trustee, and whether the entity controls any other common carriers.

(i) If applicant is a trustee, receiver, assignee, or a personal representative of the real party in interest, details about the appointment (including supporting documents, such as the court order authorizing the appointment and the filing) and about the real party in interest.

(j) If applicant is an existing carrier, it may satisfy the informational requirements of paragraphs (f) through (i) of this section by making appropriate reference to the docket number of prior applications that have been filed within the previous three years in which the information has been submitted.
