
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1150 - CERTIFICATE TO CONSTRUCT, ACQUIRE, OR OPERATE RAILROAD LINES
###### Subpart C - Modified Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
####### ยง 1150.23 Modified certificate of public convenience and necessity.

(a) The operator must file a notice with the Board for a modified certificate of public convenience and necessity. Operations may commence immediately upon the filing; however, the Board will review the information filed, and if complete, will issue a modified certificate notice.

(b) A notice for a modified certificate of public convenience and necessity shall include the following information:

(1) The name and address of the operator and, unless the operator is an existing rail carrier:

(i) Its articles of incorporation or, if it is unincorporated, the facts and organizational documents relating to its formation;

(ii) The names and addresses of all of its officers and directors and a statement indicating any present affiliation each may have with a rail carrier; and

(iii) Sufficient information to establish the financial responsibility of the operator.

(2) Information about the prior abandonment, including docket number, status and date of the first decision approving the abandonment.

(3) The exact dates of the period of operation which have been agreed upon by the operator and the State which owns the line (if there is any agreement, it should be provided);

(4) A description of the service to be performed including, where applicable, a description of:

(i) The line over which service is to be performed;

(ii) All interline connections including the names of the connecting railroads;

(iii) The nature and extent of all liability insurance coverage, including binder or policy number and name of insurer; and

(iv) Any preconditions which shippers must meet to receive service.

(5) The name and address of any subsidizers, and

(6) Sufficient information to establish the financial responsibility of any subsidizers (if the subsidizer is a State, the information should show that it has authority to enter into the agreement for subsidized operations).

(c) The service offered and the applicable rates, charges, and conditions must be described in tariffs published by the operator to the Board's rules.
