
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1150 - CERTIFICATE TO CONSTRUCT, ACQUIRE, OR OPERATE RAILROAD LINES
###### Subpart D - Exempt Transactions Under 49 U.S.C. 10901
####### ยง 1150.36 Exempt construction of connecting track.
######## see

(3) The Board, through the Director of the Office of Proceedings, shall publish a notice in thewithin 20 days after the notice of exemption is received that describes the construction project and invites comments. OEA will then prepare an EA (or, if necessary, an EIS). The EA generally will be made available 15 days after thenotice. It will be served on all parties and appropriate agencies. Others may request a copy from OEA. The deadline for submission of comments on the EA will generally be within 30 days of its availability (49 CFR 1105.10(b)). If an EIS is prepared, the time frames and procedures set forth in 49 CFR 1105.10(a) generally will apply.

(4) The Board's environmental document (together with any comments and OEA's recommendations) shall be used in deciding whether to allow the particular construction project to proceed under the class exemption and whether to impose appropriate mitigating conditions upon its use (including use of an environmentally preferable route). If the Board concludes that a particular project will result in serious adverse environmental consequences that cannot be adequately mitigated, it may deny authority to proceed with the construction under the class exemption (the "no-build" alternative). Persons believing that they can show that the need for a particular line outweighs the adverse environmental consequences can file an application for approval of the proposed construction under 49 U.S.C. 10901.

(5) No construction may begin until the Board has completed its environmental review and issued a final decision.

(6) Petitions to stay the effective date of the notice of exemption on other than environmental and/or historic preservation grounds must be filed within 10 days of thepublication. Petitions to stay the effective date of the notice on environmental and/or historic preservation grounds may be filed at any time but must be filed sufficiently in advance of the effective date to allow the Board to consider and act on the petition before the notice becomes effective. Petitions for reconsideration must be filed within 20 days of thepublication.
