
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1150 - CERTIFICATE TO CONSTRUCT, ACQUIRE, OR OPERATE RAILROAD LINES
###### Subpart D - Exempt Transactions Under 49 U.S.C. 10901
####### ยง 1150.36 Exempt construction of connecting track.
######## see

(9) Where there has been full environmental review and no significant environmental issues have been raised or discovered, the Board, through the Director of the Office of Proceedings, shall issue, on or before the effective date of the exemption, a final decision consisting of a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) to show that the environmental record has been considered (49 CFR 1105.10(g)).

(10) The Board, on its own motion or at the request of a party to the case, will stay the effective date of individual notices of exemption when an informed decision on environmental issues cannot be made prior to the date that the exemption authority would otherwise become effective. Stays will be granted initially for a period of 60 days to permit resolution of environmental issues and issuance of a final decision. The Board expects that this 60-day period will usually be sufficient for these purposes unless preparation of an EIS is required. If, however, environmental issues remain unresolved upon expiration of this 60-day period, the Board, upon its own motion, or at the request of a party to the case, will extend the stay, as necessary to permit completion of environmental review and issuance of a final decision. The Board's order will specify the duration of each extension of the initial stay period. In cases requiring the preparation of an EIS, the Board will extend the stay for a period sufficient to permit compliance with the procedural guidelines established by the Board's environmental regulations.
