
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### § 1152.22 Contents of application.
######## General.

(a)(1) Exact name of applicant.

(2) Whether applicant is a common carrier by railroad subject to 49 U.S.C. Subtitle IV, chapter 105.

(3) Relief sought (abandonment of line or discontinuance of service).

(4) Detailed map of the subject line on a sheet not larger than 8 x 10inches, drawn to scale, and with the scale shown thereon. The map must show, in clear relief, the exact location of the rail line to be abandoned or over which service is to be discontinued and its relation to other rail lines in the area, highways, water routes, and population centers.

(5) Reference to inclusion of the rail line to be abandoned or over which service is to be discontinued on the carrier's system diagram map or narrative, in compliance with §§ 1152.10 through 1152.13, and the date upon which such line was first listed on the system diagram map or included in the narrative in category 1 in accordance with § 1152.10(b)(1). A copy of the line description which accompanies the system diagram map shall also be submitted.

(6) Detailed statement of reasons for filing application.

(7) Name, title, and address of representative of applicant to whom correspondence should be sent.

(8) List of all United States Postal Service ZIP Codes that the line proposed for abandonment traverses.
