
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.22 Contents of application.
######## Rural and community impact.

(e)(1) The name and population (identify source and date of figures) of each community in which a station on the line is located.

(2) Identification of significant users, as defined in ยง 1152.2(l), by name, address, principal commodity, and by tonnage and carloads for each of the 2 calendar years immediately preceding the filing of the abandonment or discontinuance application, for that part of the current year for which information is available, and for the Base Year. In addition, the total tonnage and carloads for each commodity group originating and/or terminating on the line segment shall also be shown for the same time periods as those of the significant users.

(3) General description of the alternate sources of transportation service (rail, motor, water, air) available, and the highway network in the proximate area.

(4) Statement of whether the properties proposed to be abandoned are appropriate for use for other public purposes, including roads or highways, other forms of mass transportation, conservation, energy production or transmission, or recreation. If the applicant is aware of any restriction on the title to the property, including any reversionary interest, which would affect the transfer of title or the use of property for other than rail purposes, this shall be disclosed.
