
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.25 Participation in abandonment or discontinuance proceedings.
######## Time limits.

(d)(1) Pleadings, requests or other papers or documents (including any comments or protests and any appeal from a Board decision) required or permitted to be filed under this part must be received for filing at the Board's Offices at Washington, DC within the time limits, if any, for such filing. The date of receipt at the Board and not the date of deposit in the mail is determinative, provided, however, that if such document is mailed by certified, registered, or express mail, postmarked at least 3 days prior to the due date, it will be accepted as timely filed.

(2) In computing any time period prescribed or allowed by this part, the day of the act, event, or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included.

(3) Any filing under this part which falls due on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday in the District of Columbia, may be filed at the Board by the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, nor a holiday, except as indicated in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. A half holiday shall not be considered as a holiday.

(4) Offers of financial assistance made pursuant to ยง 1152.27(c) must be filed on or before their statutory or regulatory due date as computed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, regardless of whether that date is a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday in the District of Columbia.

(5) The Board will reject any pleading filed after its due date unless good cause is shown why the pleading is filed late.
