
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.27 Financial assistance procedures.
######## Exemption proceedings.

(2)(i) If a petition for individual exemption from the prior approval requirements of 49 U.S.C. 10903 is filed with the Board for abandonment or discontinuance of a line of railroad, the Board will publish notice of the petition in thewithin 20 days of the filing of the petition. Thepublication will serve as notice to persons with a potential interest in providing financial assistance to assure continued rail service on the line under 49 U.S.C. 10904 and these regulations as they relate to exempt abandonments and discontinuances. Offers of financial assistance will be due 120 days after the filing of the petition for exemption or 10 days after service of a Board decision granting the exemption, whichever occurs sooner.

(ii) If a notice of exemption is filed under the class exemption, the Board will publish notice of the exemption in thewithin 20 days of filing. Thepublication will serve as notice to persons with a potential interest in providing financial assistance to assure continued rail service on the line under 49 U.S.C. 10904 and these regulations as they relate to exempt abandonments and discontinuances. Offers of financial assistance will be due no later than 30 days after the date of thepublication giving notice of the exemption.
