
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.25 Participation in abandonment or discontinuance proceedings.
######## Petitions to stay.

(7)(i) The filing of a petition to reopen shall not stay the effect of a prior action. Any petition to stay must be filed with the Board.

(ii) A petition to reopen an administratively final action may be accompanied by a petition for a stay of the effectiveness of the abandonment or discontinuance. As provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a petition to reopen must be accompanied by a stay request if the party wishes the Board to have the opportunity to consider the petition to reopen before the abandonment or discontinuance authorization becomes final.

(iii) A party may petition for a stay of the effectiveness of abandonment or discontinuance authorization pending a request for judicial review. The reasons for the desired relief shall be stated in the petition, and the petition shall be filed not less than 15 days prior to the effective date of the abandonment authorization. No reply need be filed. If a party elects to file a reply, the reply must reach the Board no later than 5 days after the petition is filed.
