
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.27 Financial assistance procedures.
######## bona fide

(C) If, after arequest, applicant has failed to provide a potential offeror promptly with the information required under paragraph (a) of this section and if that information is not contained in the notice of exemption, the Board will entertain petitions to toll the 30-day period for submitting offers of financial assistance under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Petitions must be filed with the Board within 25 days after publication in the(as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section). Petitions should include copies of the prior written request for information or an accurate outline of the specific information that was orally requested. Replies to these petitions must be filed within 30 days after publication. These petitions and replies must be filed on or before their actual due date under 49 CFR 1152.25(d)(4). The Board will issue a decision on petitions to toll the offer period within 35 days after publication.

(D) Upon receipt of a formal expression of intent to file an offer under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the rail carrier applicant may advise the Board and the potential offeror that additional time is needed to develop the information required under paragraph (a) of this section. Applicant shall expressly indicate the amount of time it considers necessary (not to exceed 60 days) to develop and submit the required information to the potential offeror. For the duration of the time period so indicated by the applicant, the 30-day period for submitting offers of financial assistance under paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be tolled without formal Board action.
