
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.27 Financial assistance procedures.
######## Request to establish conditions and compensation for financial assistance.

(h)(1) If the Board is requested to establish conditions and compensation for financial assistance under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the Board will issue a decision within 30 days after the request is due.

(2) If the applicant receives multiple offers of financial assistance, requests to establish conditions and compensation will not be permitted before the applicant selects the offeror with whom it wishes to transact business. (See paragraph (l)(1) of this section.)

(3) A party requesting the Board to establish conditions and compensation for financial assistance must, within the time period set forth in paragraph (h)(4) of this section, provide its case in chief, including reasons why its estimates are correct and the other negotiating party's estimates are incorrect, points of agreement and points of disagreement between the negotiating parties, and evidence substantiating these allegations. The offeror has the burden of proof as to all issues in dispute.

(4) The offeror must submit all evidence and information supporting the terms it seeks within 30 days after the offer is made. The carrier's reply to this evidence and support for the terms it seeks are due within 35 days after the offer is made. No rebuttal evidence will be permitted and evidence and information submitted after these dates will be rejected.

(5) If requested, the Board will determine the amount and terms of subsidy based on the avoidable cost of providing continued rail transportation, plus a reasonable return on the value of the line. Under 49 U.S.C. 10904(f)(4)(B), no subsidy arrangement approved under section 10904 shall remain in effect for more than one year unless mutually agreed by the parties.

(6) If requested, the Board will determine the price and other terms of sale. The Board will not set a price below the fair market value of the line (including, unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties, all facilities on the line or portion necessary to provide effective transportation services). Fair market value equals constitutional minimum value which is the greater of the net liquidation value of the line or the going concern value of the line. The constitutional minimum value is computed without regard to labor protection costs.

(7) Within 10 days of the service date of the Board's decision, the offeror must accept or reject the Board's terms and conditions with a written notification to the Board and all parties to the proceeding. If the offeror accepts the terms and conditions set by the Board, the Board's decision is binding on both parties. If the offeror withdraws its offer or does not accept the terms and conditions set by the Board with a timely written notification, the Board will serve, within 20 days after the service date of the Board decision setting the terms and conditions, a decision vacating the prior decision, which postponed the effective date of either the decision granting the application or exemption or the notice of exemption, and which, if applicable, partially revoked the exemption or (in the case of a class exemption) the notice of exemption (unless other offers are being considered under paragraph (l) of this section). The decision to vacate will be effective on its date of service.
