
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.27 Financial assistance procedures.
######## Failure to reach agreement on financial assistance.

(g)(1) If the carrier and a financially responsible person fail to agree on the amount or terms of subsidy or purchase, either party may request the Board to establish the conditions and amount of compensation. This request must be filed with the Board within 30 days after the offer is made and served concurrently by overnight mail on all parties to the proceeding. The request must be accompanied by the appropriate fee, codified at 49 CFR 1002.2(f)(26). Replies will be due 5 days later.

(2) If no agreement is reached within 30 days after the offer of purchase or subsidy is made, and no request is made to the Board to set the conditions and amount of compensation under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the Board will serve a decision vacating the prior decision, which postponed the effective date of the decision granting the application, the decision granting the exemption, or the notice of exemption and, which, if applicable, partially revoked either the decision granting the exemption or (in the case of a class exemption) the notice of exemption. The Board will issue the decision to vacate within 10 days of the due date for requesting the Board to set the conditions and amount of compensation, and the Board will make the decision to vacate effective on its date of service.
