
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.27 Financial assistance procedures.
######## Class exemption proceedings.

(ii)If the carrier seeking the exemption has received multiple offers of financial assistance from persons found to be financially responsible and has selected the offeror with whom it wishes to transact business, the negotiating parties shall complete the sale or subsidy agreement or request the Board to establish the conditions and amount of compensation within 60 days after thepublication described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. A request to the Board to set terms and conditions must be served concurrently on all parties to the proceeding. If no agreement on subsidy or sale is reached within the 60-day period and the Board has not been requested to establish the conditions and amount of compensation, any other financially responsible offeror may request the Board to establish the conditions and amount of compensation. This request must be filed at the Board within 70 days of thepublication described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section and served concurrently on all parties to the proceeding. If no other request is filed, the Board will issue a decision vacating the decision postponing the effective date of the notice of exemption within 80 days of thepublication described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The decision to vacate will be effective on the date of service.

(3) If the Board has established the conditions and amount of compensation, and the original offer is withdrawn under paragraph (h)(7) of this section, any other offeror found to be financially responsible may accept the Board's decision within 20 days after the service date of the Board's decision setting terms and conditions. If the decision is accepted by another such offeror, the Board will require the applicant to accept the terms incorporated in the Board's decision.
