
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.29 Prospective use of rights-of-way for interim trail use and rail banking.
######## When to file.

(b)(1) In abandonment application proceedings under 49 U.S.C. 10903, interim trail use statements are due within the 45-day protest and comment period following the date the abandonment application is filed. See ยง 1152.25(c). The applicant carrier's response notifying the Board whether and with whom it intends to negotiate a trail use agreement is due within 15 days after the close of the protest and comment period (i.e., 60 days after the abandonment application is filed).

(i) In every proceeding where a Trails Act request is made, the Board will determine whether the Trails Act is applicable.

(ii) If the Trails Act is not applicable because of failure to comply with paragraph (a) of this section, or is applicable but the carrier either does not intend to negotiate an agreement, or does not timely notify the Board of its intention to negotiate, a decision on the merits will be issued and no Certificate of Interim Trail Use or Abandonment (CITU) will be issued. If the carrier is willing to negotiate an agreement, and the public convenience and necessity permit abandonment, the Board will issue a CITU.

(2) In exemption proceedings, a petition containing an interim trail use statement is due within 10 days after the date the notice of exemption is published in thein the case of a class exemption and within 20 days after publication in theof the notice of filing of a petition for exemption in the case of a petition for exemption. When an interim trail use comment(s) or petition(s) is filed in an exemption proceeding, the railroad's reply to the Board (indicating whether and with whom it intends to negotiate an agreement) is due within 10 days after the date a petition requesting interim trail use is filed.

(3) Late-filed trail use statements must be supported by a statement showing good cause for late filing.
