
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Notice, Applications, Financial Assistance, Acquisition for Public Use, and Trail Use
####### ยง 1152.27 Financial assistance procedures.
######## Special provisions for summary discontinuance and abandonment of lines not part of the Final System Plan.,et seq.,

(n)(1) Board authorization is not needed for the cessation of service on a line of railroad formerly in reorganization that was not included in the Final System Plan (Plan) under the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973, 45 U.S.C. 701as amended by the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976, if the line has been continuously subsidized since the inception of the Plan. To provide an opportunity for rail service continuation through offers of financial assistance, however, the owner of the line must give not less than 60 days' notice of a discontinuance, and beginning 120 days after discontinuance, not less than 30 days' notice of abandonment. Designated operators need only comply with the notice requirements of ยง 1150.11 of this title. In instances of discontinuance by a designated operator, the line owner is not obligated to operate the line. Notice is to be sent by the line owner to the Board, the governor and transportation agencies and the government of each political subdivision of each state in which such rail properties are located and to each shipper who has used the rail service during the previous 12 months. The Board will generally apply the OFA procedures in this section (49 CFR 1152.27) for class exemptions to summary abandonment and discontinuance notices (except that the Board will not postpone the effective date of a summary discontinuance). For example, notice of summary abandonment or discontinuance will be published by the Board in thewithin 20 days of filing. Paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. Expressions of intent to file an offer must be filed no later than 10 days after thepublication. Paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. An offer must be filed within 30 days of thepublication. Paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. The Board will review offers to determine if a financially responsible person has offered assistance. If this criterion is met, the Board will postpone the effective date of the summary abandonment (but not the discontinuance) within 35 days of thepublication. Paragraph (e)(2) of this section. If the carrier and financially responsible person fail to agree on the amount or terms of subsidy or purchase, either party may request the Board to establish the conditions and amount of the compensation. This request must be filed within 30 days after the offer of purchase or subsidy is made, and the Board will issue a decision within 30 days after the request is due. Paragraphs (g)(1) and (h)(1) of this section.

(2) Where a designated operator is being used, it shall be paid a reasonable management fee. If the parties cannot agree on this fee, it shall be four and one-half percent of the total annual revenues attributable to the branch.
