
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.32 Calculation of avoidable costs.
######## Freight car costs.,Car Service Compensation-Basic Per Diem Charges,

(g)For Class I railroads, the on-segment costs for time-mileage freight cars shall be calculated on the basis of the carrier's average cost per day and per mile. Those freight cars that are rented on a straight mileage basis are to be costed on the carrier's average cost per mile for each type of car rented on this basis. No costs are to be included in the calculation for private line (shipper owned) or other cars for which the railroad does not make payments. The cost per day and per mile shall be calculated separately for each type of car specified in Ex Parte No. 334,362 I.C.C. 884 (1980). The freight car costs shall be separated between "return on value-freight cars" and "freight car costs other than return on freight cars". The costs assigned to a line under this subsection are to be derived from the accounts listed below.

The system total of the repair and maintenance accounts, all accounts designated XX-XX-42, and depreciation shall be divided into time-related costs and mileage-related costs on the basis of 50 percent time and 50 percent mileage for repairs, and 60 percent time and 40 percent mileage for depreciation. Freight car costs shall not include depreciation as determined in Account No. 62-22-00. Freight car depreciation shall be calculated in the manner set forth in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section. The system total receipts and payments for the hire of time-mileage cars, and the basic data used in the development of the car-day and car-mile factors, shall be taken from the carrier's latest Form R-1 and company records. The specific steps to complete the calculation are as follows:

(1) The total system car days by car type shall be calculated by:

(i) Averaging the carrier's freight car ownership at the beginning and end of the year (Form R-1, schedule 710, columns (b) and (k);

(ii) Multiplying the average by the standard active number of car days (346) as developed in ICC Docket No. 31358;

(iii) Subtracting car days on foreign lines (source: Company records); and
