
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.32 Calculation of avoidable costs.
######## Return on investment-locomotive,line

(h)(). The return on investment shall be calculated for each type of classification of locomotive that is actually used to provide service to the line segment. The return for the locomotive(s) used shall be calculated in accordance with the following procedure:

(1) The current replacement cost for each type of locomotive used to serve the line segment shall be based on the most recent purchase of that particular type and size locomotive by the carrier, indexed to the midpoint of the forecast and/or subsidy year, or on an amount quoted by the manufacturer. The amount must be substantiated. This unit cost shall be multiplied by 1 minus the ratio of total accumulated depreciation to original total cost of that type of equipment owned by applicant-carrier, as shown by company records.

(2) The current nominal cost of capital shall be used in the calculation of return on investment for locomotives and shall be calculated as provided in ยง 1152.34(d).

(3) The return on investment for each category or type of locomotive shall be the nominal return less the holding gain (loss). The nominal return is calculated by multiplying the replacement cost determined in paragraph (h)(1) of this section by the nominal rate of return determined in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. The holding gain (loss) shall be the gain (loss) projected to occur during the forecast and/or subsidy year. In any instance where the holding gain is not specifically determined for locomotives, the Gross Domestic Product deflator calculated by the U.S. Department of Commerce shall be used.

(4) The return on investment for each type of locomotive shall be assigned to the line segment on a ratio of the locomotive unit hours on the segment to average locomotive unit hours per unit for each type of locomotive in the system. This ratio will be developed as follows:

(i) The carrier shall keep and maintain records of the number of hours that each type of locomotive incurred in serving the segment during the subsidy period.

(ii) The railroad shall develop the system average locomotive unit hours per unit for each of the following types of locomotives; yard diesel; yard-other; road diesel; and road-other.

(iii) The ratio applied to the return on investment is calculated by dividing the hours that each type or class of locomotive is used to serve the segment, as developed in paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, by the system average locomotive unit hours per unit for the applicable type developed in paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section.

(5) The cost assigned to the segment for each type of locomotive shall be calculated by multiplying the annual return on investment developed in paragraph (h)(3) of this section by the ratio(s) developed in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.
