
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.32 Calculation of avoidable costs.
######## supra.

(2) The total railroad car miles shall be calculated by adding the loaded car miles for the railroad owned and leased cars (R-1, Schedule 755) to empty car miles for the railroad owned or leased cars (R-1, Schedule 755). The total car miles, loaded and empty, shall be calculated for each car type specified in Ex Parte No. 334,

(3) The cost per car day shall be calculated for each type of time-mileage car by adding 50 percent of total freight car repair costs for each type (Form R-1, schedule 415, column (b)), and 60 percent of the depreciation shall be developed as follows:

(i) The current value for each type of car shall be calculated by first arriving at the current cost per car using the most recent purchase of this type by the railroad indexed to the midpoint of the year or a price quote from the manufacturer. This unit price shall be applied to the average number of this type of car owned by the carrier during the year. The current value developed for each car type is then multiplied by the composite depreciation rate for that type of car as shown in the latest annual report filed with the Board or company records.

(ii) Add 100 percent of the return on investment. Return on investment shall be determined by multiplying the current value of each type of car, developed in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section, by 1 minus the ratio of accumulated depreciation to the total original cost investment. This will determine the net current value for each type of car. The net current value for each type of car shall then be multiplied by the nominal rate of return calculated in ยง 1152.34(d) to obtain nominal return on investment for each type of car. The total return on investment shall then be calculated by deducting the projected holding gain (loss) for the forecast and/or subsidy year from the nominal return on investment for each type of car. In any instance where the holding gain is not specifically determined for freight cars, the Gross Domestic Product deflator calculated by the U.S. Department of Commerce shall be used. The total return on investment for each type of car shall then be divided by total car-days for each car-type developed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iii) To the amounts for repairs and depreciation, add the time portion of the railroad's payment for hire of time-mileage freight cars (Form R-1, schedule 414, column (g)), and subtract the time portion of the railroad's receipts for hire of time mileage freight cars (Form R-1, schedule 414, column (d)). The total of these costs is divided by the total car days for each type developed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(4) The cost per mile shall be calculated for each type of time-mileage car as follows. First, add:

(i) 50 percent of the total freight train car repair cost for each car type (Form R-1, schedule 415, column (b));

(ii) 40 percent of the total depreciation costs for each car type developed in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section; and

(iii) The mileage portion of the carrier's payments for the hire of time-mileage freight cars (Form R-1, schedule 414, column (f)).

(5) The costs per car day and per car mile developed in paragraphs (g) (3) and (4) of this section shall be applied to the total car days and total car miles for each car type accumulated on the line segment for all traffic originated and/or terminated on the segment plus those freight cars that bridge the line segment which are attributed to time-mileage freight train cars. The on-segment costs for freight cars rented on a straight mileage basis shall be the railroad's total payments for mileage cars (Form R-1, schedule 414, column (e)) for each car type divided by the total miles on which the charges were based.

(6) For Class II and III railroads, the on-segment costs for time-mileage and straight mileage freight cars shall be calculated in the same manner prescribed for Class I railroads, using the latest data available.
