
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.32 Calculation of avoidable costs.
######## Off-branch costs.

(n)The off-branch costs developed in this section shall be separated between "off-branch costs other than return on freight cars" and "return on value-freight cars". The off-branch costs shall be developed in the following manner:

(1) Terminal costs, line-haul costs, interchange costs, and modified terminal costs shall be considered as the off-branch avoidable costs of providing service over the remainder of the railroad's system. These costs shall be computed by applying the variable unit costs to the service units attributed to the branch line's traffic for the time periods specified in ยง 1152.22(d) of this part.

(2) The procedure for determining the off-branch costs shall be based upon the URCS cost formula. This formula shall be applied to the latest Annual Report Form R-1 filed by the railroad, with two exceptions. First, the amount used in the formula for freight car depreciation shall be calculated using the procedure discussed in paragraph (g)(3)(iii) of this section applied to the average total car fleet of the railroad. Second, the return on investment in freight cars shall be computed using the procedure set forth in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section. In addition, the application of URCS shall include the use of the nominal cost of capital for all return on investment determinations.
