
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.32 Calculation of avoidable costs.
######## The Class I Procedure:,The Class II/III Simplified Costing Procedure:,The Class II/III Standard Costing Procedure:

(4) A Class II or Class III railroad shall calculate its off-branch costs using any one of three different procedures.A Class II or Class III railroad may calculate its off-branch costs using the Class I procedure set forth in paragraph (n)(3) of this section, if the necessary data are available from the railroad's own records. If the data necessary to complete the Class I procedure set forth in paragraph (n)(3) of this section are not available from the railroad's own records, the Class II or Class III railroad shall calculate its off-branch costs using either one of the following procedures based on the latest regional URCS data and the railroad's own records.A Class II or Class III railroad may calculate its off-branch costs using the Class I procedure set forth in paragraph (n)(3) of this section, with regional URCS data of the Class I railroads used in lieu of individual URCS data of the Class II or Class III railroad. Costs developed through the use of the Class II/III simplified costing procedure shall enjoy a rebuttable presumption of correctness.A Class II or Class III railroad may calculate its off-branch costs using the Class II/III standard costing procedure set forth in paragraphs (n)(4)(i) through (n)(4)(xiv) of this section. Costs developed through the use of the Class II/III standard costing procedure shall be given preference over costs developed through the use of the Class II/III simplified costing procedure. The Class II/III standard costing procedure is set forth in paragraphs (n)(4)(i) through (n)(4)(xiv) of this section.

(i) The Class II or Class III railroad shall first determine which URCS regional application will be used based on its geographical location. The railroad's total estimated system variable expenses are calculated by multiplying its total operating expenses by the ratio of variable expenses to total expenses; this ratio is located in Worktable D8, Part 6, line 615, column 1 of the URCS printout for the appropriate region. If a railroad has passenger and freight service, the freight portion of the total estimated system variable expenses shall be calculated by multiplying the total estimated system variable expenses, calculated as above, by the ratio of freight related operating expenses to total railway operating expenses.

(ii) The total number of revenue carload terminal handlings, as determined from the railroad's records, shall be calculated as the sum of:

(A) Originated and terminated (local) revenue carloads multiplied by 2; plus

(B) Interchanged and either originated or terminated (interline) revenue carloads.

(iii) The total number of revenue carload interchange handlings, as determined from the railroad's records, shall be calculated as the sum of:

(A) Bridge (interchange to interchange) revenue carloads multiplied by 2; plus

(B) Revenue carloads that are interchanged and either originated or terminated (interline).

(iv) The system average shipment weight per car, as determined from the railroad's records, shall be calculated by dividing:

(A) Ton-miles-revenue freight by

(B) Loaded freight car miles.

(v) The system average loaded car miles per car, as determined from the railroad's records, shall be calculated by dividing:

(A) Revenue ton-miles by

(B) Revenue tons.

(vi) The railroad shall complete a URCS Phase III "Movement Costing Program" based on the application of URCS data for the appropriate region. The following data shall be inputs to the Phase III program application.

(A) The carrier code, either "REG 4" or "REG 7", shall correspond to the appropriate region.

(B) The type of shipment shall be designated as "OD" in order for the movement to be costed as an interline movement.

(C) The distance shall be the system average loaded car miles per car as developed in paragraph (n)(4)(v) of this section.

(D) The type of freight car shall be identified as a Box, General Service Equipped, which has an input user code of "3". If all of the traffic on the branch line is transported in a single type of car, and it is not a Box, General Service Equipped, the code for that type of car may be substituted.

(E) The number of freight cars shall be "1".

(F) The car ownership factor shall be designated as "R" for railroad owned cars unless all of the branch line traffic is moved in privately owned cars, in which case the code "P" for privately owned cars would be the input.

(G) The program requires a loss and damage input. The code "48", representing the average of all commodities, shall be used.

(H) The input for shipment weight shall be the system average shipment weight per car developed in paragraph (n)(4)(iv) of this section.

(I) The input for type of movement shall be "1", representing an individual car movement.

(vii) The ratios employed to separate the total estimated system variable expenses, as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(i) of this section, among terminal, interchange, and line-haul operations shall be based on the procedures outlined in this paragraph (n)(4)(vii). This separation shall reflect the variable costs resulting from the application of the URCS Phase III program based on the input factors specified in paragraph (n)(4)(vi) of this section. The ratios shall be calculated in the following manner:

(A) The terminal expenses calculated by the application of the Phase III program shall consist of the following:
