
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.32 Calculation of avoidable costs.
######## The Class I Procedure:

(3)A Class I railroad shall calculate its off-branch costs using the Class I procedure as set forth below in this paragraph.

(i) The unit costs developed by applying URCS in the manner specified in paragraph (n)(2) of this section shall be applied to the service characteristics of each movement of traffic that is attributed to the branch line. This application shall result in the total off-branch cost associated with this traffic for normal terminal handlings, line-haul mileage, and interchange events.

(ii) The modified terminal cost per carload shall be calculated separately for each type of freight car and applied to each car that is attributed to the branch line. The modified terminal cost shall consist of clerical costs, two days of freight car cost, and an inter-intra train switching cost (locomotive engine minute cost only). The clerical cost and inter-intra train switching cost shall be calculated from unit costs developed within the individual URCS application.

(A) The unit costs for the clerical cost per carload calculation are located in URCS Worktable E1, Part 1: Line 106, columns 1, 2, and 3; line 107, column 1; line 108, column 1; line 109, column 1; and line 110, column 1.

(B) The inter-intra train switching cost shall be calculated by multiplying the total switch engine minute cost from URCS Worktable E1, Part 1, line 111, columns 1, 2, and 3 by the total minutes specified in the next sentence. The total minutes specified in this sentence shall equal the sum of:
