
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.32 Calculation of avoidable costs.
######## Locomotive depreciation.

(o)The depreciation expense for locomotives used on the line shall be calculated using the following procedure:

(1) The current replacement cost for each type of locomotive used to serve the line will be based on the most recent purchase of that particular type and size locomotive by the carrier indexed to the midpoint of the year or on an amount quoted by the manufacturer.

(2) The depreciation rate that will be applied to the replacement cost shall be the carrier's component rate for each type of locomotive as reported in the latest Annual Report Form R-1 submitted to the Board or from the company records. Carriers using depreciation rates based on company records must explain why composite rates are inappropriate; provide a detailed explanation of the methodology used to compute the alternate depreciation rate; and demonstrate that these rates have been used consistently.

(3) The annual depreciation cost for each type of locomotive shall be calculated by multiplying the replacement cost(s) developed in paragraph (o)(1) of this section by the rate from paragraph (o)(2) of this section.

(4) The depreciation expense for each type of locomotive shall be assigned to the line on the ratio of the hours incurred serving the line to the average system locomotive unit hours in service by each of the following categories of locomotives: yard-diesel; yard-other; road-diesel; and road-other. The ratio for each type of locomotive used to serve the line shall be the same as that developed in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.

(5) The depreciation shall be calculated by multiplying the annual depreciation expense for each type of locomotive developed in paragraph (o)(3) of this section by the ratio(s) developed in paragraph (o)(4) of this section.
