
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.32 Calculation of avoidable costs.
######## 3

() The interchange switching cost per carload shall be calculated by multiplying the interchange cost per carload as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(ix)(B) of this section by the interchange switching ratio.

(C) The freight car cost element shall be the freight car cost per car day for 2 days as developed for each car type in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(D) The modified terminal cost per carload shall be the total of the costs developed in paragraphs (n)(4)(x)(A), (n)(4)(x)(B), and (n)(4)(x)(C) of this section.

(xi) The terminal costs shall be calculated by multiplying the terminal cost per carload as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(ix)(A) of this section by the number of carloads that both:

(A) Originated or terminated on the branch, and

(B) Are local to the railroad serving the branch.

(xii) The interchange costs shall be calculated by multiplying the interchange cost per carload as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(ix)(B) of this section by the number of carloads that both:

(A) Originated or terminated on the branch; and

(B) Are received in or forwarded through interchange with other railroads.

(xiii) The line-haul costs shall be calculated by multiplying the line-haul cost per car mile as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(ix)(C) of this section by the total loaded and empty car miles generated on the railroad's system off the branch by cars that originated or terminated on the branch.

(xiv) The modified terminal costs shall be calculated by multiplying the modified terminal cost per carload as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(x)(D) of this section by the number of carloads that originated or terminated on the branch.
