
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.32 Calculation of avoidable costs.
######## 3

() The total variable cost excluding loss and damage as calculated in the Phase III program at line 696.

(D) The ratio for terminal expenses shall be calculated by dividing the terminal expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(vii)(A) of this section by the total variable cost excluding loss and damage as calculated in the Phase III program at line 696.

(E) The ratio for interchange expenses shall be calculated by dividing the interchange expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(vii)(B) of this section by the total variable cost excluding loss and damage as calculated in the Phase III program at line 696.

(F) The ratio for line-haul expenses shall be calculated by dividing the line-haul expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(vii)(C) of this section by the total variable cost excluding loss and damage as calculated in the Phase III program at line 696.

(viii) The railroad's total estimated system variable expenses shall be separated as follows:

(A) The total terminal variable expenses shall be calculated by multiplying the total estimated system variable expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(i) of this section by the ratio for terminal expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(vii)(D) of this section.

(B) The total interchange variable expenses shall be calculated by multiplying the total estimated system variable expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(i) of this section by the ratio for interchange expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(vii)(E) of this section.

(C) The total line-haul variable expenses shall be calculated by multiplying the total estimated system variable expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(i) of this section by the ratio for line-haul expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(vii)(F) of this section.

(ix) The railroad's unit costs shall be determined for terminal, interchange, and line-haul operations as follows:

(A) The terminal cost per carload shall be calculated by dividing the total terminal variable expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(viii)(A) of this section by the total number of revenue carload terminal handlings as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(ii) of this section.

(B) The interchange cost per carload shall be calculated by dividing the total interchange variable expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(viii)(B) of this section by the total number of revenue carload interchange handlings as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(iii) of this section.

(C) The line-haul cost per car mile shall be calculated by dividing the total line-haul variable expenses as determined in paragraph (n)(4)(viii)(C) of this section by the total system freight car miles, loaded and empty, as determined from the railroad's records.

(x) The modified terminal cost per carload is a composite of costs developed in the Phase III program and costs determined in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section and this paragraph. The modified terminal cost per carload shall be calculated for each type of car as follows:

(A) The station clerical cost per carload shall be developed in the following manner:
