
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.33 Apportionment rules for the assignment of expenses to on-branch costs.
######## 3,3

(C) To determine the total costs assignable to the branch for these accounts, add the amounts developed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A)() and (c)(1)(i)(B)() of this section.

(ii) All accounts designated xx-31-67 shall be assigned to the branch in accordance with the following procedure. The dollar amounts used in the determination of locomotive fuel costs shall be based on data contained in the most recent publication issued by the General Managers Association (GMA) relating to the rental of locomotives. The total number of locomotive unit hours incurred by the locomotive(s) shall then be categorized according to the applicable GMA horsepower classification group. The fuel cost is derived from the Repairs and Supplies Expenses element of the locomotive rental rates published by the GMA. The fuel cost per locomotive unit hour shall be determined for each GMA horsepower classification group by multiplying the latest GMA fuel cost percentage by the Repairs and Supplies Expense per hour included in each group. The fuel cost update ratio is determined by using the indices for fuel from the Association of American Railroad's (AAR's) Railroad Cost Recovery Index (RCR). The indices shall be taken from the district to which the railroad is assigned by the Board. The index for the current period is divided by the index of the period representative of the GMA publication to develop the fuel update ratio. The fuel cost per locomotive unit hour developed for each GMA horsepower group shall be multiplied by the fuel update ratio to determine the fuel cost per locomotive hour for each horsepower group. The updated fuel cost per locomotive unit hour for each applicable GMA group shall be multiplied by the number of locomotive unit hours incurred in serving the branch by locomotives of that GMA horsepower classification group. The total cost developed under this procedure for each horsepower classification shall be the locomotive fuel cost assignable to the branch line.
