
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.34 Return on investment.
######## Reasonable return.

(d)A rail carrier shall furnish to the Board, and to any financially responsible person considering making an offer of a rail service continuation payment, a substantiated statement showing its current nominal cost of capital. The railroad's nominal cost of capital shall be the current before tax cost of capital, weighted to the capital structure, and adjusted for the effects of the combined statutory Federal and state income tax rates. This rate of return expressed as a percent, shall be calculated as follows:

(1) The railroad shall determine its permanent capital structure ratio for debt and equity capital such that the two numbers total 100 percent. This capital structure will be the actual capital structure of the railroad. If this calculation is not possible or also not representative because the railroad is part of a conglomerate, the debt-equity ratio from the Board's latest Determination of Adequate Railroad Revenues will be used. However, if the debt-equity ratio for the railroad industry is used then the industry average equity and debt rate from the Board's latest revenue adequacy finding must also be used in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section.

(2) The current nominal cost of debt shall be determined by taking the average of all debt instruments (including bonds, equipment trust certificates, financial lease arrangements, et cetera) issued by the carrier in the most recent 12-month period. The debt cost calculated by this procedure is a before-tax rate and is not adjusted for inflation or income taxes.

(3) The current nominal after tax cost of equity shall be an amount equal to that which a prudent investor would expect to earn through investment in the market place. The current after tax nominal cost of equity is divided by 1 minus the combined statutory Federal and state income tax rates. This will develop the nominal cost of equity on a before tax basis.

(4) The current nominal before-tax cost of debt is multiplied by the current percentage of debt to total capital to obtain a weighted before-tax nominal cost of current debt.

(5) The current nominal before-tax cost of equity is multiplied by the current percentage of equity to total capital to obtain a weighted nominal before-tax cost of current equity.

(6) The results of paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this section are added together to determine the current nominal cost of capital.
