
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart D - Standards for Determining Costs, Revenues, and Return on Value
####### ยง 1152.34 Return on investment.
######## Return on investment-road properties.

(c)Return on investment-road properties shall be computed according to the following procedures:

(1) The investment base to which the nominal return element shall apply shall be the sum of:

(i) The allowable working capital computed at 15 days on-branch cash avoidable costs (on branch avoidable costs less depreciation).

(ii) The amount of current income tax benefits resulting from abandonment of the line which would have been applicable to the period of the subsidy agreement. (Conversely, if the railroad would incur an income tax liability from abandonment, the liability should be deducted from the investment base.) This information is to be furnished by the railroad and subject to audit by the person offering the subsidy.

(iii) The net liquidation value for the highest and best use for non-rail purposes of the rail properties on the line to be subsidized which are used and required for performance of the services requested by the persons offering the subsidy. This value shall be determined by computing the current appraised market value of such properties for other than rail transportation purposes, less all costs of dismantling and disposition of improvements necessary to make the remaining properties available for their highest and best use and complying with applicable zoning, land use, and environmental regulations. If rehabilitation has been performed along the line during a subsidy year and rehabilitation expenses have been paid by the subsidizer under 49 CFR 1152.32(m)(2), the investment base shall exclude the increment to the net liquidation value of the line caused by the rehabilitation project. For these purposes:

(A) In calculating the net liquidation values for the Forecast Year, no asset on the line shall be excluded from the determination of net liquidation value because it contributes negatively to that value, i.e., the removal costs exceed the market value after removal. All such assets shall be included in the net liquidation value determination if the carrier is required by law to remove them or if the carrier intends to remove them, even if it is not required to do so. The parties shall fully support and explain the exclusion for net liquidation purposes of all assets having a negative salvage value.
