
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart G - Special Rules Applicable to Petitions for Abandonments or Discontinuances of Service or Trackage Rights Filed Under the 49 U.S.C. 10502 Exemption Procedure
####### ยง 1152.60 Special rules.

(a) This section contains special rules applicable to any proceeding instituted under the 49 U.S.C. 10502 exemption procedure for either the abandonment of a rail line or the discontinuance of service or trackage rights over a rail line. General rules applicable to any proceeding filed under the 49 U.S.C. 10502 exemption procedure may be found at 49 CFR part 1121, but the rules in part 1152 control in case of any conflict with the general exemption rules. In the case of petitions for exemption for abandonment, notice of the filing of the petition will be published by the Board, through the Director of the Office of Proceedings, in the20 days after the petition is filed. There will be no furtherpublication later if and when a petition is granted.

(b) Any petition filed under the 49 U.S.C. 10502 exemption procedure for either the abandonment of a rail line or the discontinuance of service or trackage rights over a rail line must be accompanied by a map that meets the requirements of ยง 1152.22(a)(4) of this part.

(c) A petitioner for an abandonment exemption shall submit, with its petition, a draftnotice of its petition according to the form prescribed below:

(d) A petitioner for an abandonment exemption must serve a copy of the petition on the persons receiving notices of exemption under ยง 1152.50(d). The petition must include the following statement: "Based on information in our possession, the line (does) (does not) contain federally granted right-of-way. Any documentation in petitioner's possession will be made available promptly to those requesting it."

(e) As Provided in ยง 1152.29(e)(2), rail carriers that receive authority to abandon a line by individual exemption under 49 U.S.C. 10502 must file with the Board a notice that abandonment has been consummated.
