
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1152 - ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF RAIL LINES AND RAIL TRANSPORTATION UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10903
###### Subpart F - Exempt Abandonments and Discontinuances of Service and Trackage Rights
####### ยง 1152.50 Exempt abandonments and discontinuances of service and trackage rights.
######## ab initio

(3) The Board, through the Director of the Office of Proceedings, shall publish a notice in thewithin 20 days after the filing of the notice of exemption. The notice shall include a statement to alert the public that following any abandonment of rail service and salvage of the line, the line may be suitable for other public use, including interim trail use. Petitions to stay the effective date of the notice on other than environmental or historic preservation grounds must be filed within 10 days of the publication. Petitions to stay the effective date of the notice on environmental or historic preservation grounds may be filed at any time but must be filed sufficiently in advance of the effective date in order to allow the Board to consider and act on the petition before the notice becomes effective. Petitions for reconsideration, comments regarding environmental, energy and historic preservation matters, and requests for public use conditions under 49 U.S.C. 10905 and 49 CFR 1152.28(a)(2) must be filed within 20 days after publication. Requests for a trail use condition under 16 U.S.C. 1247(d) and 49 CFR 1152.29 must be filed within 10 days after publication. The exemption will be effective 30 days after publication, unless stayed. If the notice of exemption contains false or misleading information, the use of the exemption is voidand the Board shall summarily reject the exemption notice.

(4) In out-of-service rail line exemption proceedings under 49 CFR 1152.50, the Board, on its own motion, will stay the effective date of individual notices of exemption when an informed decision on pending environmental and historic preservation issues cannot be made prior to the date that the exemption authority would otherwise become effective.

(5) A notice or decision to all parties will be issued if use of the exemption is made subject to environmental, energy, historic preservation, public use and/or interim trail use and rail banking conditions.
