
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1155 - SOLID WASTE RAIL TRANSFER FACILITIES
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Applications for a Land-Use-Exemption Permit
####### ยง 1155.21 Contents of application.
######## General.

(a)(1) Exact name of applicant.

(2) Whether applicant is a common carrier by railroad subject to 49 U.S.C. Subtitle IV, chapter 105.

(3) Summary of why a land-use-exemption permit is being sought.

(4) The full address of the solid waste rail transfer facility, or, if not available, the city, state, and United States Postal Service ZIP code.

(5) The name of the rail carrier that owns or operates the facility or the rail carrier on whose behalf the facility is operated, the line of railroad serving the facility, the milepost location of the facility, and the milepost and names of the stations that the facility is located between.

(6) Name, title, and address of representative of applicant to whom comments should be sent.

(7) Copies of the specific state, local, or municipal laws, regulations, orders, or other requirements affecting the siting of the solid waste rail transfer facility from which the applicant requests entire or partial exemption, any publicly available material providing the criteria for the application of the state, local, or municipal laws, regulations, orders, or other requirements affecting the siting, and a description of any action that the state, local, or municipal authority has taken affecting the siting of the facility. The applicant shall state whether each law, regulation, order or other requirement from which an exemption is sought is an environmental, public health, or public safety standard that falls under the traditional police powers of the state. If the applicant states that the requirement is not such a standard, it shall explain the reasons for its statement.

(8) Certification that the laws, regulations, orders or other requirements from which the applicant requests exemption are not based on federal laws, regulations, orders, or other requirements.

(9) Certification that the facility complies with all state, local, or municipal laws, regulations, orders, or other requirements affecting the siting of the facility except for those from which it seeks exemption.

(10) Certification that the applicant has applied or will apply for the appropriate state permits not affecting siting.

(11) For facilities not in existence as of October 16, 2008, certification that the facility is not proposed to be located on land within any unit of or land affiliated with the National Park System, the National Wildlife Refuge System, the National Wilderness Preservation System, the National Trails System, the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, a National Reserve, or a National Monument. For facilities in existence as of October 16, 2008, state whether the facility is located in any of these types of lands.

(12) For facilities not in existence as of October 16, 2008, certification that the facility is not proposed to be located on lands referenced in The Highlands Conservation Act, Public Law No. 108-421, for which a state has implemented a conservation management plan, or, that the facility is consistent with the restrictions implemented by the applicable state under The Highlands Conservation Act, Public Law No. 108-421, placed on its proposed location. For facilities in existence as of October 16, 2008, state whether the facility is located on any of these lands, and, if so, address whether the facility is consistent with the restrictions placed on the location by the applicable state under that law.

(13) An explanation of how the facility comes within the Board's jurisdiction under 49 U.S.C. 10501.

(14) The owner and operator of the facility.

(15) The interest of the rail carrier in the facility.

(16) An explanation of how the facility meets the definition of a solid waste rail transfer facility at 49 U.S.C. 10909(e)(1)(H).

(17) A statement whether the applicant has sought permission from the applicable state, local, or municipal authority with respect to some or all of the facility in its application and received an unsatisfactory result affecting the siting of the facility. The applicant shall provide information about the unsatisfactory result and shall include all relevant orders, decisions, or other notices of the denial.

(18) A detailed description of the operations and activities that will occur/are occurring at the facility.

(19) Detailed map showing the subject facility on sheets not larger than 11x17 inches, drawn to scale, and with the scale shown thereon. The map must show, in clear relief, the exact location of the facility on the rail line and its relation to other rail lines in the area, highways, water routes, population centers, and any geographic features that should be considered in determining whether the facility would pose an unreasonable risk to public health, safety, or the environment, pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 10909(c)(1).

(20) Detailed drawing of the subject facility on sheets not larger than 11x17 inches, drawn to scale, and with the scale shown thereon. The drawing must show, in clear relief, the exact boundaries of the facility, structures at the facility, the location and type of the operations taking place at the facility, the proposed traffic configuration for the solid waste entering and leaving the facility, reasonable future expansion planned for the next 10 years that the applicant requests to be included in the land-use-exemption permit, any geographic features that should be considered in determining whether the facility would pose an unreasonable risk to public health, safety, or the environment, pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 10909(c)(1), and any other information that the applicant believes would be relevant.

(21) A detailed justification for why any future expansion planned for the next 10 years should be covered by the land-use-exemption permit.
