
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1155 - SOLID WASTE RAIL TRANSFER FACILITIES
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Applications for a Land-Use-Exemption Permit
####### ยง 1155.23 Participation in application proceedings.
######## Filing and service of comments and replies (including evidence and argument).

(c)(1) Initial comments shall be filed with the Board (addressed to the Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings, Surface Transportation Board, 395 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20423) within 45 days of the filing with the Board of a land-use-exemption-permit application. A copy of each comment shall be served on applicant or its representative at the time of filing with the Board. Each filing shall contain a certificate of service.

(2) Final comments shall be filed and served on all parties within 30 days of the close of the environmental review. A copy of each comment shall be served on applicant or its representative at the time of filing with the Board. Each filing shall contain a certificate of service.

(3) Replies to final comments shall be filed and served on all parties no later than 45 days after the close of the environmental review. A copy of each reply to comments shall be served on applicant or its representative at the time of filing with the Board. Each filing shall contain a certificate of service.
