
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1155 - SOLID WASTE RAIL TRANSFER FACILITIES
###### Appendix A to Part 1155 - Form Notice of Intent To Apply

Docket No. FD __(Sub-No. __)

Notice of Intent to apply for a land-use-exemption permit for a solid waste rail transfer facility.

(Name of Applicant) gives notice that on or about (insert date application will be filed with the Board) it intends to file with the Surface Transportation Board, 395 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20423, an application for a land-use-exemption permit for a solid waste rail transfer facility as defined in 49 U.S.C. 10908(e)(1)(H) and 49 CFR 1155.2. The solid waste rail transfer facility, owned by (name of owner), and operated by (name of operator), is located at (full address, or, if not available, provide city, state, and United States Postal Service ZIP code). The solid waste rail transfer facility is located on a (name of rail carrier) line of railroad known as ____ at milepost ____ between (station name) at milepost ____ and (station name) at milepost ____.

The reason(s) for the proposed permit application is (are) ____ (explain briefly and clearly the activities undertaken, or proposed to be undertaken, by the applicant at the solid waste rail transfer facility. Describe the specific state and local laws, regulations, orders or other requirements affecting siting from which the applicant requests entire or partial exemption and any action that the state, local, or municipal authority has taken affecting the siting of the facility. Also, if applicant is not the rail carrier, provide the name of the rail carrier that owns or operates the facility or has the facility operated on its behalf.)

(Include this paragraph for facilities not in existence on October 16, 2008). Applicant certifies that, based on information in its possession, the facility is not proposed to be located on land within any unit of or land affiliated with the National Park System, the National Wildlife Refuge System, the National Wilderness Preservation System, the National Trails System, the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, a National Reserve, or a National Monument. Applicant further certifies that the facility is not proposed to be located on lands referenced in The Highlands Conservation Act, Public Law 108-421, for which a state has implemented a conservation management plan (or, The facility is consistent with the restrictions implemented by (state) under The Highlands Conservation Act, Public Law 108-421, placed at its proposed location). Any relevant documentation in the railroad's possession on these issues will be made available promptly to those requesting it.

(For facilities already in existence on October 16, 2008, address the extent to which the facility is or is not located in any of these types of lands, and to the extent that it is so located address any relevant criteria, and so certify.)

The application containing the information set forth at 49 CFR 1155.21 will include the applicant's case for the granting of the land-use-exemption permit. Any interested person, after the application is filed on (insert date), may file with the Surface Transportation Board initial comments concerning the application within 45 days after the application is filed.

The party's initial comments should contain that party's initial arguments in support or opposition based on the information available at that point including the following, as appropriate:

(1) Name, address, and organizational affiliation.

(2) A statement describing commenter's interest in the proceeding, including information concerning the organization or public interest the commenter represents.

(3) Specific reasons why commenter supports or opposes the application, taking into account the standards for the Board's review and consideration provided in 49 U.S.C. 10909(c), (d), and the Board's regulations at 49 CFR 1155.27.

(4) If the applicant files under 49 CFR 1155.22, specific reasons why commenter supports or opposes the Board's accepting the application.

(5) Any rebuttal of material submitted by applicant.

The parties' initial comments will be considered by the Board in determining what disposition to make of the application. Parties seeking further information concerning the filing of comments should refer to 49 CFR 1155.24.
