
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1155 - SOLID WASTE RAIL TRANSFER FACILITIES
###### Subpart C - Procedures Governing Applications for a Land-Use-Exemption Permit
####### ยง 1155.26 Board determinations under 49 U.S.C. 10909.
######## Standard for review.

(b)(1) The Board will issue a land-use-exemption permit only if it determines that the facility at the existing or proposed location would not pose an unreasonable risk to public health, safety, or the environment. In deciding whether a solid waste rail transfer facility that is or proposed to be constructed or operated by or on behalf of a rail carrier poses an unreasonable risk to public health, safety, or the environment, the Board shall weigh the particular facility's potential benefits to and the adverse impacts on public health, public safety, the environment, interstate commerce, and transportation of solid waste by rail.

(2) The Board will not grant a land-use-exemption permit for a solid waste rail transfer facility proposed to be located on land within any unit of or land affiliated with the National Park System, the National Wildlife Refuge System, the National Wilderness Preservation System, the National Trails System, the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, a National Reserve, or a National Monument.

(3) The Board will not grant a land-use-exemption permit for a solid waste rail transfer facility proposed to be located on land within any unit of or land affiliated with lands referenced in The Highlands Conservation Act, Public Law No. 108-421, for which a state has implemented a conservation management plan, if operation of the facility would be inconsistent with restrictions placed on such land.

(4) The Board will reject an application from a person who is not a rail carrier, but is instead operating on behalf of a rail carrier unless;

(i) The applicant has sought permission from the applicable state, local, or municipal authority with respect to some or all of the property in the application and received an unsatisfactory result affecting the siting of the facility, or

(ii) The Governor of the state has petitioned the Board to require the facility to apply under subpart B of this part.

(5) The Board will issue a land-use-exemption permit to an applicant that has received an unsatisfactory result from a state, local or municipal authority affecting the siting of the facility only if it finds that the laws, regulations, or other requirements affect the siting of the facility, on their face or as applied, either;

(i) Unreasonably burden the interstate transportation of solid waste by railroad, or

(ii) Discriminate against the railroad transportation of solid waste and a solid waste rail transfer facility.

(6) A land-use-exemption permit will only exempt state, local, or municipal laws, regulations, orders, other requirements, or portions thereof, affecting the siting of the solid waste rail transfer facility.
