
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1177 - RECORDATION OF DOCUMENTS
###### ยง 1177.3 Requirements for submission.
####### For water carrier equipment

(ii)-Whether tow boats, barges or other vessels; type of equipment; description as contained in the United States Coast Guard certificate of enrollment; number of each type of equipment; and any identifying marks such as the name or initial of the lessee, mortgagee, or vendee.

(5) Parties to the agreement, as follows:

(i) Conditional sale-vendor, purchaser, guarantor.

(ii) Mortgage-mortgagor, mortgagee, guarantor.

(iii) Equipment Trust-vendor, trustee, lessor, lessee, guarantor of lease.

(iv) Lease-lessee, lessor, guarantor.

(v) Bailment-bailor, bailee, guarantor.

(vi) Other transactions-principal debtor, trustee, guarantor, and other parties.

(6) Parties to whom original document should be returned.

(7) The amount of the enclosed fee.

(8) A short summary (1 or 2 sentences) of the type of document and a very brief description of the equipment and identifying numbers. This summary will be entered into the index as an aid to researching the encumbrances to title. (For a sample of a summary, see ยง 1177.4).

(9) The letter must be signed by an executive officer of one of the parties having knowledge of the matters described in the letter, or their attorney or representative in fact.
