
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1155 - SOLID WASTE RAIL TRANSFER FACILITIES
###### Appendix B to Part 1155 - Form Federal Register Notice

Docket No. FD __ (Sub-No. __)

Notice of Application for a land-use-exemption permit for a solid waste rail transfer facility.

On (insert date application was filed with the Board) (name of applicant) filed with the Surface Transportation Board, 395 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20423, an application for a land-use-exemption permit for a solid waste rail transfer facility. The solid waste rail transfer facility, owned by (name of owner), and operated by (name of operator), is located at (full address, or, if not available, provide city, state, and United States Postal Service ZIP code). The solid waste rail transfer facility is located on a line of (name of rail carrier) railroad known as ____ at milepost ____ between (station name) at milepost ____ and (station name) at milepost ____. The application explains why applicant believes its request for a land-use-exemption permit should be granted.

(Include this paragraph for facilities not in existence on October 16, 2008). The facility is not proposed to be located on land within any unit of or land affiliated with the National Park System, the National Wildlife Refuge System, the National Wilderness Preservation System, the National Trails System, the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, a National Reserve, or a National Monument. The facility is not proposed to be located on lands referenced in The Highlands Conservation Act, Public Law No. 108-421, for which a state has implemented a conservation management plan (or, The facility is consistent with the restrictions implemented by (state) under The Highlands Conservation Act, Public Law 108-421, placed on its proposed location). Any relevant documentation in the railroad's possession will be made available promptly to those requesting it.

(For facilities already in existence on October 16, 2008, address the extent to which the facility is or is not located in any of these types of lands, and to the extent that it is so located address any relevant criteria, and so certify.)

Any interested person may file with the Surface Transportation Board initial comments concerning the application within 45 days of the filing of the application. Persons seeking information concerning the filing of initial comments should refer to 49 CFR 1155.23.

All comments should indicate the proceeding designation Finance Docket No. __ (Sub-No. __). Initial comments must be filed with the Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings, Surface Transportation Board, 395 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20423, no later than (insert the date 45 days after the date applicant intends to file its application). A copy of each comment shall be served upon the representative of the applicant (insert name, address, and phone number). Except as otherwise set forth in 49 CFR part 1155, each document filed with the Board must be served on all parties to the land-use-exemption-permit proceeding. 49 CFR 1104.12(a).

Persons seeking further information concerning land-use-exemption-permit procedures may contact the Surface Transportation Board or refer to 49 U.S.C. 10908, 10909, 10910, and the Board's implementing land-use-exemption-permit regulations at 49 CFR part 1155.

A copy of the application is available for public inspection. The applicant shall furnish a copy of the application to any interested person proposing to file a comment, upon request.
