
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1177 - RECORDATION OF DOCUMENTS
###### ยง 1177.3 Requirements for submission.

In order to be accepted for recordation, an original of any primary or secondary document must:

(a) Be in writing and executed by the parties to the document, and acknowledged or verified either in a form:

(1) Authorized by the law of the state, territory, district or possession where executed for the acknowledgement or verification of deeds of land; or

(2) Substantially as follows:

(3) Substantially as follows:

(b) Be accompanied by at least one fully executed and acknowledged or verified counterpart, or if no counterpart has been executed and acknowledged by the parties, one certified true copy. A certified true copy of an original document is a complete and identical copy in all respects to the original attached with:

(1) A certificate executed by a notary public, stating that he or she has compared the copy with the original and has found the copy to be complete and identical in all respects to the original document; or

(2) A certification of the filer stating that he or she has compared the copy with the original and found the copy to be complete and identical in all respects to the original document and that he or she declares under penalty of perjury ("under the laws of the United States of America" if executed outside the United States) that the foregoing is true and correct; or

(3) There may be attached to the copy, affidavits, wherein the affidavit states that he or she has compared the copy with the original document and found the copy to be complete and identical in all respects to the original documents.

(c) Be accompanied by the fee set forth in 49 CFR 1002.2(f)(83). However, assignments which are executed prior to the filing of the primary document and which are submitted concurrently will be treated along with the primary document as one for fee purposes and will be assessed only one fee. A lease and agreement (Philadelphia Plan) shall be similarly treated.

(d) Be accompanied by a letter of transmittal requesting the recording of the document. For a sample of a letter, see ยง 1177.4. Documents submitted concurrently under the same recordation number may be included in a single transmittal letter. Otherwise, each document must have its own letter of transmittal. The letter should be addressed to the Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings and include the following information:
