
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.25a Redelegations by the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy.

(a) The Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy is redelegated authority to:

(1)(i) Redelegate and authorize successive redelegation of authority granted in this paragraph (a) to officials within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, except as limited by law or specific administrative reservation.

(ii) Publish, in appendix A of this part, redelegations made under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) Establish policy and maintain oversight of implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Pub. L. 91-190, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321-4347) within the Department of Transportation.

(3) Oversee the implementation of 49 U.S.C. 303 (Policy on lands, wildlife and waterfowl refuges, and historic sites).

(4) Represent the Secretary of Transportation on various interagency boards, committees, and commissions to include the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation and the Trade Policy Review Group and the Trade Policy Staff Committee.

(5) Serve as the Department's designated principal conservation officer pursuant to section 656 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Pub. L. 94-91 [ 42 U.S.C. 7266], and carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 656 of the Act, which pertains to planning and implementing energy conservation matters with the Department of Energy.

(6) Carry out the functions of section 42303 of 49 U.S.C., relating to the management of the Web site regarding the use of insecticides in passenger aircraft.

(7) In coordination with the General Counsel, carry out the duties of the Secretary under Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 to establish the value of statistical life in connection with assessing the costs and benefits of Departmental regulatory action.

(8) Carry out the duties of the Secretary under Executive Orders 12866 and 13563 to establish the value of time in connection with assessing the costs and benefits of Departmental regulatory action.

(b) The Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs is redelegated authority to:

(1)(i) Redelegate and authorize successive redelegation of authority granted in this paragraph (b) to officials within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, except as limited by law or specific administrative reservation.

(ii) Publish, in appendix A of this part, redelegations made under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
