
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### ยง 1180.1 General policy statement for merger or control of at least two Class I railroads.
######## Service assurance and operational monitoring.

(h)(1) The quality of service is of vital importance. Accordingly, applicants must file, with their initial application and operating plan, a Service Assurance Plan identifying the precise steps they would take to ensure adequate service and to provide for improved service. This plan must include the specific information set forth at ยง 1180.10 on how shippers, connecting railroads (including Class II and III carriers), and ports across the new system would be affected and benefitted by the proposed consolidation. As part of this plan, applicants will be required to provide service benchmarks, describe the extent to which they have entered into any arrangements with shippers and shipper groups to compensate for service failures, and establish contingency plans that would be available to mitigate any unanticipated service disruption.

(2) The Board will conduct significant post-approval operational monitoring to help ensure that service levels after a merger are reasonable and adequate.

(3) The Board also will require applicants to establish problem resolution teams and specific procedures for problem resolution to ensure that any unanticipated post-merger problems related to service or any other transportation matters, including claims, are promptly addressed. These teams should include representatives of all appropriate employee categories. Also, the Board envisions the establishment of a Service Council made up of shippers, railroads, passenger service representatives, ports, rail labor, and other interested parties to provide an ongoing forum for the discussion of implementation issues.
