
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### ยง 1180.1 General policy statement for merger or control of at least two Class I railroads.
######## Loss and damage claims handling.

(4)Shippers or shortlines who have freight claims under 49 CFR part 1005 during merger implementation shall file such claims, in writing or electronically, with the merged carrier. The claimant shall provide supporting documentation regarding the effect on the claimant, and the specific damages (in a determinable amount) incurred. Pursuant to 49 CFR part 1005, the merged carrier shall acknowledge each claim within 30 days and successively number each claim. Within 120 days of carrier receipt of the claim, the merged carrier shall respond to each claim by paying, declining, or offering a compromise settlement. The Board will take notice of these claims and their disposition as a matter of oversight. During each annual oversight period, the merged carrier shall report on claims received, their type, and their disposition for each quarterly period covered by oversight. While shippers and shortlines may also contract with the applicants for specific remedies with respect to claims, final adjudication of contract issues as well as unresolved claims will remain a matter for the courts.
