
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### ยง 1180.4 Procedures.
######## Filing requirements.

(2)(i) The original of all applications shall be signed in ink by the applicant, if an individual; by all partners, if a partnership; and if a corporation, association, or other similar form of organization, by its president, or such other executive officer having knowledge of the matters therein contained and duly designated for that purpose by the applicant. Applications shall be made under oath and shall contain an appropriate certification (if a corporation, by its secretary) showing that the affiant is duly authorized to verify and file the application. Any person controlling an applicant shall also sign the application.

(ii) The application shall be filed with Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings, Surface Transportation Board, Washington, DC 20423-0001.

(iii) Each copy of the application shall conform in all respects to the original and shall be complete in itself except that the signature in the copies may be stamped or typed and the notarial seal may be omitted. In like manner, where certified copies of documents are filed with the application, conformed copies thereof, showing certification in stamped or typewritten form, will be sufficient to accompany the additional copies of the application.

(iv) All applications required to be filed with the Board or served on designated persons shall include all exhibits, except as otherwise specifically noted. Information from other documents may be incorporated by reference in the application. However, the documents must have been filed with the Board within three years prior to filing of the application, the information must be up to date, and applicant must be prepared to supply copies of this information to interested persons on specific request.

(v) The applicant shall submit such additional information to support its application as the Board may require.
