
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### ยง 1180.4 Procedures.
######## Application format.

(6)(i) The application shall be in the same sequence as the information is requested in these procedures, and shall be numbered to correspond to the numbering in the procedures.

(ii) If any material required in the application would lend itself to being placed in an appendix, this should be done. The appendix and application shall be tabulated and cross-referenced in an index for ease in locating and referring to the information. The appendixes shall be in the same sequence as the information required by these procedures. If certain information required in the application is not applicable, provide an explanation. The application should be bound, and it may be bound in more than one volume. If an application is more than one volume, the cover of each volume should be in a different color. The pages in each volume shall begin with 1, and be sequentially numbered.

(iii) The Board's Office of Proceedings will provide informal opinions and interpretations, which are not binding on the Board, regarding the format of or information to be included in the application.

(iv) All filing, service, or other requirements of these procedures must be complied with when filing the application. Copies of the application filed with the Board shall be marked in red "Railroad Consolidation Application" on the transmittal envelope or package.

(v) The application shall conform to the typographical specifications of ยง 1104.2.

(vi) The information and data required of any applicant may be consolidated with the information and data required of the affiliated applicant carriers.

(7) Acceptance or rejection of an application.
