
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### ยง 1180.4 Procedures.
######## Waiver or clarification.

(f)(1) Upon petition of a prospective applicant, the Board may waive or clarify a portion of these procedures. A petition to waive all of the procedures will not be entertained.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in the procedural schedule adopted by the Board in any particular proceeding, petitions for waiver or clarification must be filed at least 45 days before the application is filed.

(3) No replies to a petition for waiver will be permitted, except where a proceeding involving the same parties and a related transaction is pending before us.When a reply is permitted, the petition shall be served by first-class mail on all parties to the pending proceedings, with a reply due within 10 days of service. Replies to a petition for clarification shall be permitted within 10 days of the petition's filing.

(4) A waiver or clarification granted to any applicant in a proceeding shall apply to any other party to the proceeding unless otherwise indicated.

(5) All petitions for waiver or clarification must specify the sections for which waiver or clarification is sought and give the specific reasons why each waiver or clarification is necessary.
