
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### § 1180.4 Procedures.
######## Notice of exemption.

(g)(1) To qualify for an exemption under § 1180.2(d), a railroad must file a verified notice of the transaction with the Board. Except for verified notices filed under § 1180.2(d)(9), all verified notices under § 1180.2(d) must be filed at least 30 days before the transaction is consummated, indicating the proposed consummation date. Verified notices filed under § 1180.2(d)(9) will become effective upon service of notice of the transaction by the Board. Before a verified notice is filed, the railroad shall obtain a docket number from the Board's Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings.

(i) All notices filed under § 1180.2(d) shall contain the information required in § 1180.6(a)(1)(i) through (iii), (a)(5) and (6), and (a)(7)(ii), and indicate the level of labor protection to be imposed.

(ii) Notices filed under §§ 1180.2(d)(7), 1180.2(d)(8), or 1180.2(d)(9) shall also contain the following information:

(A) The name of the tenant railroad;

(B) The name of the landlord railroad;

(C) A description of the trackage rights, including a description of the track. For notices under § 1180.2(d)(8) and (9), the notice must state that the trackage rights are overhead rights. For notices under § 1180.2(d)(7), the notice must state whether the trackage rights are local or overhead;

(D) The date the trackage rights transaction is proposed to be consummated;

(E) The date temporary trackage rights will expire, if applicable; and

(F) For notices under § 1180.2(d)(9), a description of the situation resulting in the outage in sufficient detail to allow the Board to determine an emergency exits, including, to the extent possible, the nature of the event that caused the unforeseen outage, the location of the outage, the date that the emergency situation occurred, the date the outage was discovered, and the expected duration of the outage.

(iii) Except for notices filed under § 1180.2(d)(9), the Board shall publish a notice of exemption in thewithin 16 days of the filing of the notice. For notices filed under § 1180.2(d)(9), the Board shall serve a notice of exemption on parties of record within 5 days after the verified notice of exemption is filed and shall publish that notice in theThe publication of notices under § 1180.2(d) will indicate the labor protection required.

(iv) If the notice contains false or misleading information that is brought to the Board's attention, the Board shall summarily revoke the exemption for that carrier and require divestiture.

(v) The filing of a petition to revoke under 49 U.S.C. 10502(d) does not stay the effectiveness of an exemption. Except for notices filed under § 1180.2(d)(9), stay petitions must be filed at least 7 days before the exemption becomes effective. For notices filed under § 1180.2(d)(9), stay petitions should be filed as soon as possible before the exemption becomes effective.

(vi) Other exemptions that may be relevant to a proposal under this provision are codified at 49 CFR part 1150, subpart D, which governs transactions under 49 U.S.C. 10901.

(2) Some transactions may be subject to environmental review pursuant to the Board's environmental rules at 49 CFR part 1105.

(3)(i) Except for notices filed under §§ 1180.2(d)(7), 1180.2(d)(8), or 1180.2(d)(9), the filing party must certify whether a proposed acquisition or operation of a rail line involves a provision or agreement that may limit future interchange with a third-party connecting carrier, whether by outright prohibition, per-car penalty, adjustment in the purchase price or rental, positive economic inducement, or other means ("interchange commitment"). If such a provision or agreement exists, the following additional information must be provided (the information in paragraphs (g)(4)(i)(B), (D), and (G) of this section may be filed with the Board under 49 CFR 1104.14(a) and will be kept confidential without need for the filing of an accompanying motion for a protective order under 49 CFR 1104.14(b)):

(A) The existence of that provision or agreement and identification of the affected interchange points; and

(B) A confidential, complete version of the document(s) containing or addressing that provision or agreement;

(C) A list of shippers that currently use or have used the line in question within the last two years;

(D) The aggregate number of carloads those shippers specified in paragraph (g)(4)(i)(C) of this section originated or terminated (confidential);

(E) A certification that the filing party has provided notice of the proposed transaction and interchange commitment to the shippers identified in paragraph (g)(4)(i)(C) of this section;

(F) A list of third party railroads that could physically interchange with the line sought to be acquired or leased;

(G) An estimate of the difference between the sale or lease price with and without the interchange commitment (confidential);

(H) A change in the case caption so that the existence of an interchange commitment is apparent from the case title.

(ii) To obtain information about an interchange commitment for use in a proceeding before the Board, a shipper or other affected party may be granted access to the confidential documents filed pursuant to § 1180.4(g)(4)(i) of this section by filing, and serving upon the petitioner, a "Motion for Access to Confidential Documents," containing:

(A) An explanation of the party's need for the information; and

(B) An appropriate draft protective order and confidentiality undertaking(s) that will ensure that the documents are kept confidential.
