
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### ยง 1180.6 Supporting information.

(a) All applications filed under 49 U.S.C. 11323 shall show in the title the names of the applicants and the nature of the proposed transaction. Beneath the title indicate the name, title, business address, and telephone number of the person(s) to whom correspondence with respect to the application should be addressed. The following information shall be included in all applications:

(1) A description of the proposed transaction, including appropriate references to any supporting exhibits and statements contained in the application and discussing the following:

(i) A brief summary of the proposed transaction, the name of applicants, their business address, telephone number, and the name of the counsel to whom questions regarding the transaction can be addressed.

(ii) The proposed time schedule for consummation of the proposed transaction.

(iii) The purpose sought to be accomplished by the proposed transaction, e.g., operating economies, eliminating excess facilities, improving service, or improving the financial viability of the applicants.

(iv) The nature and amount of any new securities or other financial arrangements.

(2) A detailed discussion of the public interest justifications in support of the application, indicating how the proposed transaction is consistent with the public interest, with particular regard to the relevant statutory criteria, including

(i) The effect of the transaction on inter- and intramodal competition, including a description of the relevant markets (see ยง 1180.7). Include a discussion of whether, as a result of the transaction, there is likely to be any lessening of competition, creation of a monopoly, or restraint of trade in freight surface transportation in any region of the United States.

(ii) The financial consideration involved in the proposed transaction, and any economies, to be effected in operations, and any increase in traffic, revenues, earnings available for fixed charges, and net earnings, expected to result from the consummation of the proposed transaction.

(iii) The effect of the increase, if any, of total fixed charges resulting from the proposed transaction.

(iv) The effect of the proposed transaction upon the adequacy of transportation service to the public, as measured by the continuation of essential transportation services by applicants and other carriers.

(v) The effect of the proposed transaction upon applicant carriers' employees (by class or craft), the geographic points where the impact will occur, the time frame of the impact (for at least 3 years after consolidation), and whether any employee protection agreements have been reached.

(vi) The effect of inclusion (or lack of inclusion) in the proposed transaction of other railroads in the territory, under 49 U.S.C. 11324.

(3) Any other supporting or descriptive statements applicants deem material.

(4) An opinion of applicants' counsel that the transaction meets the requirements of the law and will be legally authorized and valid, if approved by the Board. This should include specific references to any pertinent provisions of applicants' bylaws or charter or articles of incorporation.

(5) A list of the State(s) in which any part of the property of each applicant carrier is situated.

(6) Map (exhibit 1). Submit a general or key map indicating clearly, in separate colors or otherwise, the line(s) of applicant carriers in their true relations to each other, short line connections, other rail lines in the territory, and the principal geographic points in the region traversed. If a geographically limited transaction is proposed, a map detailing the transaction should also be included. In addition to the map accompanying each application, 20 unbound copies of the map shall be filed with the Board.

(7) Explanation of the transaction.

(i) Describe the nature of the transaction (e.g., merger, control, purchase, trackage rights), the significant terms and conditions, and the consideration to be paid (monetary or otherwise).

(ii) Agreement (exhibit 2). Submit a copy of any contract or other written instrument entered into, or proposed to be entered into, pertaining to the proposed transaction.In addition, parties to exempt trackage rights agreements and renewal of agreements described at ยง 1180.2(d)(7) must submit one copy of the executed agreement or renewal agreement with the notice of exemption, or within 10 days of the date that the agreement is executed, whichever is later.

(iii) If a consolidation or merger is proposed, indicate: (A) The name of the company resulting from the consolidation or merger; (B) the State or territory under the laws of which the consolidated company is to be formed or the merged company is to file its certificate of amendment; (C) the capitalization proposed for the resulting company; and (D) the amount and character of capital stock and other securities to be issued.

(iv) Court order (exhibit 3). If a trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative of the real party in interest is an applicant, submit a certified copy of the order, if any, of the court having jurisdiction, authorizing the contemplated action.

(v) State whether the property involved in the proposed transaction includes all the property of the applicant carriers and, if not, describe what property is included in the proposed transaction.

(vi) Briefly describe the principal routes and termini of the lines involved, the principal points of interchange on the routes, and the amount of main-line mileage and branch line mileage involved.

(vii) State whether any governmental financial assistance is involved in the proposed transaction and, if so, the form, amount, source, and application of such financial assistance.

(8) Environmental data (exhibit 4). Submit information and data with respect to environmental matters prepared in accordance with 49 CFR part 1105. In major and significant transaction, applicants shall, as soon as possible, and no later than the filing of a notice of intent, consult with the Board's Office of Environmental Analysis for the proper format of the environmental report.
