
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### ยง 1180.8 Operational data.
######## pro forma

(1) The patterns of service on the properties, including the proposed principal routes, proposed consolidations of main-line operations, and the anticipated traffic density and general categories of traffic (including numbers of trains) on all main and secondary lines in the system. Identify all yards expected to have an increase in activity greater than 20 percent. Changes in operations may be summarized in adensity chart.

(2) If commuter or other passenger services are operated over the lines of applicant carriers, detail any impacts anticipated on such services, including delays which may be occasioned because a line is scheduled to handle increased traffic due to route consolidations.

(3) The anticipated equipment requirements of the proposed system, including locomotives, rolling stock by type, and maintenance-of-way equipment; plans for acquisition and retirement of equipment; projected improvements in equipment utilization and their relation to operating changes; and how these will lead to the financial and service benefits described in the summary.

(4) A description of the effect of any deferred maintenance or delayed capital improvements on any road or equipment properties involved, the schedule for eliminating such deferrals, details of general system rehabilitation including rehabilitation relating to the transaction (including proposed yard and terminal modifications), and how these activities will lead to the service improvements or operating economies anticipated from the transaction.

(5) Density charts (exhibit 14). Gross ton-mile traffic density charts shall be filed for applicant carriers containing a map geographically showing those lines handling 1 million gross ton-miles per mile road or more per year and respective densities, expressed in gross ton-miles per year, in each direction, in segments of such lines between major freight yards and terminals, including major intramodal and intermodal interchange points, using the corporate or political subdivision name of the points shown as well as the railroad station name. The mileage of each segment of line shall be provided, and should be shown on the chart. Data shown in the density chart shall be for the latest available full calendar year preceding the filing of the application. At applicants' option data may be shown on the density chart or an explanatory list.
