
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### ยง 1180.9 Financial information.
######## pro forma

(4) in the fourth column, a compilation of the first three columns into aincome statement.

(c) Sources and application of funds (exhibit 18). Transferor's and transferee's statement of sources and application of funds for the current year, and a forecastof sources and application of funds for each carrier (if a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation) for the year following consummation of the proposed transaction, and the years necessary to effectuate the operating plan.The form and content of these statements should be constructed in accordance with the schedule: "Statement of Changes in Financial Position" required in the most recently filed Annual Report R-1 for Class I railroads.

(d) Property encumbrance (exhibit 19). If any of the property covered by the application is encumbered and applicant has agreed to assume obligation or liability in respect thereof, submit:

(1) A description of the property encumbered.

(2) Amount of encumbrance and full description thereof, including maturity, interest rate, and other terms and conditions.

(3) Amount of encumbrance assumed or to be assumed by applicant.

(e) The Board will incorporate by reference the current balance sheets and income statements of Class I railroads which are on file with the Board. Class II and Class III railroads, and non-carrier entities shall submit balance sheets (exhibit 20) and income statements (exhibit 21) covering a period ending within 6 months before the application is filed.
