
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1180 - RAILROAD ACQUISITION, CONTROL, MERGER, CONSOLIDATION PROJECT, TRACKAGE RIGHTS, AND LEASE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General Acquisition Procedures
####### ยง 1180.10 Service assurance plans.
######## Corridor performance benchmarking.

(1)Benchmarks will consist of route level performance information including flow data for traffic moving on the applicants' systems. These data will encompass flows to and from major points. A major point could be a Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) statistical area, or it can be a railroad-created point based on an operational grouping of stations or interchanges, or it could be another similar construction. It will be necessary for applicants to define traffic points used to establish benchmarks for purposes of monitoring. A sufficient number of corridor flows must be reported so as to fully represent system flows, including interchanges with short lines and other Class I's, and internal traffic of the respective applicants before the transaction. In addition to identifying traffic flows by areas, they also must be identified by commodity sector (for example, merchandise, intermodal, automotive, unit coal, unit grain etc.). Data for each flow must include: traffic volume in carloads (units), miles (area to area), and elapsed time in hours. Only loaded traffic need be included.
