
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter B - Rules of Practice
##### PART 1182 - PURCHASE, MERGER, AND CONTROL OF MOTOR PASSENGER CARRIERS
###### ยง 1182.6 Processing an opposed application.

(a) If timely comments are submitted in opposition to an application, the tentative grant of authority is void.

(b) Applicants may file a reply to opposing comments, within 60 days after the date the application was published.

(1) The reply may include a request for an expedited decision on the issues raised by the comments. Otherwise, the reply may not contain any new evidence, but shall only rebut or further explain matters previously raised.

(2) The reply shall be verified, as provided in 49 CFR 1182.8(e), unless it consists strictly of legal argument.

(3) Applicants' reply must be served on each commenter in such manner that it is received no later than the date it is due to be filed with the Board.

(4) Opposing commenters may reply to a request for an expedited decision, within 70 days after notice of the application was published.

(c) The Board may:

(1) Dispense with further proceedings and make a final determination based on the record as developed; or

(2) Issue a procedural schedule specifying the dates by which: applicants may submit additional evidence in support of the application, in response to the comment(s) in opposition; and the opposing commenter(s) may reply.

(d) Further processing of an opposed application will be handled on a case-by-case basis, as appropriate to the particular issues raised in the comments filed in opposition to the application. Evidentiary proceedings must be concluded within 240 days after publication of the notice of the application.
