
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Classification of accounts.

1-2(a) Accounts are prescribed to cover cost of property used in transportation operations and operations incidental thereto and for revenues, expenses, taxes, rents, and other items of income for such operations. Separate accounts are prescribed for investment in property not used in transportation operations and for other investments and income therefrom; for unusual and infrequent items; for operations and disposal of discontinued segments; for extraordinary items and accounting changes; and for assets, liabilities and capital includable in the balance sheet statement. Retained earnings accounts form the connecting link between the income account and the equity section of the balance sheet. They are provided to record the transfer of net income or loss for the year; certain capital transactions; and, when authorized by the Board, other items.

(b) The cost of property, and the revenues, expenses, taxes and rents for miscellaneous operations involving the use of such facilities as hotels, restaurants, grain elevators, storage warehouses, power plants, cold storage plants, etc., shall not be included in the accounts prescribed for transportation operations unless the operation of the facilities is conducted by the railway companies in connection with furnishing transportation services. Likewise, the cost of property, the revenues, expenses, taxes, and rents arising from the operation of stockyards shall not be included in accounts prescribed for transportation operations unless operation of the facilities is conducted in connection with transportation of livestock. It is not intended that cost of property and income arising from incidental public stockyards service rendered by stockyards primarily devoted to transportation services shall be excluded from transportation operation accounts.

(c) Joint facility accounts are provided for the joint users of tracks, bridges, yards, wharves, stations, and other facilities in which to record items in settlement for use of such facilities. When the compensation for the use of facilities is a fixed amount or is based upon a charge per passenger, ton, car or other unit, the amount shall be fairly apportioned by the operating company among the joint facility operating expense and income accounts. The creditor shall show the distribution of these charges upon its bills, and such distribution shall be adhered to by the debtor. Train service in connection with the line haul of traffic, including that operated under a joint arrangement for the benefit of two or more carriers, is not considered a joint facility operation.
