
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Records.

1-3(a) Each carrier shall keep its books of account, and all other books, records, and memoranda which support the entries in such books of account so as to be able to furnish readily full information as to any item included in any account. Each entry shall be supported by such detailed information as will permit ready identification, analysis, and verification of all facts relevant thereto.

(b) All expenditures including the expense accounts of officers and employees shall be supported by vouchers, payrolls, receipted bills, canceled checks, receipts for petty cash payments, or other evidences of the expenditures incurred.

(c) The books referred to herein include not only books of accounts in a limited technical sense but all other records such as minute books, stock books, reports, correspondence, memoranda, etc., which will be useful in developing the history of or facts regarding any transaction.

(d) No carrier shall destroy any books, records, memoranda, etc., which support entries to its accounts unless destruction is permitted by the regulations governing preservation of records, Part 1220 of this chapter.

(e) In addition to prescribed accounts, clearing accounts, temporary accounts, and subdivisions of any accounts may be kept, provided the integrity of the prescribed accounts is not impaired.

(f) Cost detail shall be maintained by cost centers for purposes of cost assignments effective 1-1-79. This provides for cost control and cost planning at any designated area of responsibility. These cost centers shall be similarly defined as the railroads' existing responsibility centers. Cost center information shall therefore be kept at the same level of detail presently collected, categorized, and maintained in railroad internal managerial accounting systems. This detailed information shall not be reported to the Board on an ongoing basis. However, the carrier shall keep the detailed information to provide a ready analysis and verification of the costs collected by cost center.
