
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Class III:

Carriers having annual carrier operating revenues of $40.4 million or less after applying the railroad revenue deflator formula shown in Note A.

(b)(1) The class to which any carrier belongs shall be determined by annual carrier operating revenues after the railroad revenue deflator adjustment. Families of railroads operating within the United States as a single, integrated rail system will be treated as a single carrier for classification purposes. Upward and downward reclassification will be effected as of January 1 in the year immediately following the third consecutive year of revenue qualification.

(2) If a Class II or Class III carrier's classification is changed based on three years' adjusted revenues the carrier shall complete and file the Classification Index Survey Form with the Board by March 31 of the year following the end of the period to which it relates.

(3) Newly organized carriers shall be classified on the basis of their annual carrier operating revenues after railroad revenue deflator adjustment for the latest period of operation. If actual data are not available, new carriers shall be classified on the basis of their carrier operating revenues known and estimated for a year (after railroad revenue deflator adjustment).

(4) When a business combination occurs, such as a merger, reorganization, or consolidation, the surviving carrier shall be reclassified effective January 1 of the next calendar year on the basis of the combined revenue for the year when the combination occurred (after railroad revenue deflator adjustment).

(5) In unusual circumstances, such as partial liquidation and curtailment or elimination of contracted services, where regulations will unduly burden the carrier, the carrier may request the Board for an exception to the regulations. This request shall be in writing specifying the conditions justifying an exception.

(c) Class I carriers shall keep all of the accounts of this system which are applicable to their operations. Class II and III carriers are not required to maintain the accounts of this system.

(d) All switching and terminal companies, regardless of their operating revenues will be designated Class III carriers.

(e) Unless provided for otherwise, all electric railway carriers, regardless of operating revenues, will be designated Class III carriers.
