
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Accounting for income taxes.,Income taxes on ordinary income,,Income Taxes on Extraordinary Items,

1-10(a) The interperiod tax allocation method of accounting shall be applied where material timing differences (see definition 17(e)) occur between pretax accounting income and taxable income. Carriers may elect, as provided by the Revenue Act of 1971, to account for the investment tax credit by either the flow through method or the deferred method of accounting. See paragraphs (d) and (e) below. All income taxes (Federal, state and other) currently accruable for income tax return purposes shall be charged to account 556,and account 590,as applicable.

(b) Under the interperiod tax allocation method of accounting the tax effect of timing differences (see definition 17) originating in the current accounting period are allocated to income tax expense of future periods when the timing differences reverse. Similar timing differences originating and reversing in the current accounting period should be combined into groups and the current tax rates applied to determine the tax effect of each group. A carrier shall not apply other than current tax rates in determining the tax effect of reversing differences except upon approval of the Board. When determining the amount of deferred taxes, rather than computing state and other taxes individually by jurisdiction, the Federal income tax rate may be increased by a percent equivalent to the effect of taxes imposed by the jurisdictions. In classifying a deferred charge or credit as current or noncurrent a carrier shall follow the classification criteria used for the related asset or liability which caused the timing difference. A deferred charge or credit that is not related to an asset or liability because (a) there is no associated asset or liability or (b) reduction of an associated asset or liability will not cause the timing difference to reverse shall be classified based on the expected reversal date of the specific timing difference. Such classification disregards any additional timing differences that may arise and is based on the criteria used for classifying other assets and liabilities.

(c) The future tax benefits of loss carryforwards shall normally be recognized in the year in which such loss is applied to reduce taxes. Only in those unusual instances when realization is assured beyond any reasonable doubt should the future tax benefits of loss carryforwards be recognized in the year of loss. The tax effects of any realizable loss carrybacks shall be recognized in the determination of net income (loss) of the loss periods; appropriate adjustments of existing net deferred tax credits may also be necessary in the loss period.
