
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Transactions with affiliated companies.

1-9(a) The records and supporting data of all transactions with affiliated companies shall be maintained in a separate file. The types of transactions referred to in this paragraph are for management services or any other type of services rendered, sale or use of facilities or any other type of assets or property. The file shall be maintained so as to enable the carrier, upon a Board request, to furnish accurate information with supporting documentation about particular transactions within 15 days of the request. We do not intend the file to include data relating to ordinary carrier operations (e.g. lawful tariff charges or interchange of equipment).

(b) Each bill rendered by an affiliated company shall state specifically the basis used for determining charges, unless the file contains the information to support the specific basis for charges.

(c) Punched cards, magnetic tapes, discs, or other machine-sensible devices used for recording, consolidating, and summarizing accounting transactions and records with a carrier's electronic or automatic data processing system may constitute a file within the meaning of this instruction.

(d) The carrier shall record, as the cost of assets or services received from an affiliated supplier, the invoice price (plus any incidental costs related to those transactions) in those cases where the invoice price can be determined from a prevailing price list of the affiliated supplier available to the general public in the normal course of business. If no such price list exists, the charges shall be recorded at the lower of their cost to the originating affiliated supplier (less all applicable valuation reserves in case of asset sales, or their estimated fair market value determined on the basis of a representative study of similar competitive and arm's-length or bargained transaction. Any difference between actual transaction price and the above, as well as charges that are not transportation related, shall be considered of a financing nature and shall be recorded, accordingly, as nonoperating charges or credits. (See instruction 1-6.)

(e) Nothing contained herein shall be construed as restraining the carrier from subdividing accounts (see instruction I-3(e)) for the purpose of recording separately transactions with affiliated companies.

(f) Carriers reporting information on a consolidated or combined basis in railroad Annual Report Form R-1 shall maintain a file with appropriate records and supporting data. This shall include work sheets showing revenues, expenses, earnings, investment in assets and accumulated depreciation for all affiliated railroads and rail-related affiliated companies. The work sheets shall also disclose any eliminations. Carriers shall also disclose the methodology used to support segregation of rail-related or other items as appropriate. Further, a file shall be maintained to support and reconcile entity sales, transfers and reclassifications as well as taxes deducted from gains or losses.
