
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### qualifying assets,Qualifying assets

(c) Where actually incurred, interest cost is to be added to the cost of road and equipment deemedduring the period of time required to get them ready for their intended use (acquisition period).are those that are (1) either constructed or otherwise produced for a carrier's own use (including assets constructed or produced for the carrier by others for which deposits or progress payments have been made) or (2) assets intended for sale or lease that are constructed or otherwise produced as discrete projects. The amount of interest to be capitalized for qualifying assets shall be based upon the average amount of accumulated expenditures for the asset during the acquisition period at the rate used on specific new borrowings associated with the qualifying asset. If average accumulated expenditures for the asset exceed the amount of specific new borrowings associated with the asset, the rate to be applied to such excess shall be a weighted average of the rates applicable to other borrowings of the enterprise. The total amount of interest cost capitalized in an accounting period shall not exceed the total amount of interest cost incurred by the enterprise during that period.

(d) Suitable records shall be maintained showing expenditures during the year for original road and equipment and road extensions; for merger and purchase of existing lines and reorganizations; for additions and betterments; and credits for property retirement.

(e) When the carrier exchanges road and equipment for other road and equipment with no other consideration involved, the road and equipment received shall be recorded at the ledger value of the road and equipment relinquished. Where the carrier receives a monetary consideration in the exchange, the carrier shall recognize gain on the exchange to the extent that the consideration received exceeds a proportionate share of the recorded cost of the road and equipment surrendered. The portion of the cost applicable to the realized amount shall be based on the ratio of the monetary consideration to the total consideration received (monetary consideration plus the estimate fair value of the road and equipment received) or, if more clearly evident, the fair value of the road and equipment transferred. Where the carrier pays a monetary consideration in the exchange, it shall not recognize any gain on the transaction but shall record the road and equipment received at the amount of the monetary consideration paid plus the recorded costs of the road and equipment surrendered. If a loss is indicated by the terms of an exchange transaction, the carrier shall recognize the entire loss on the exchange. Immaterial gains and losses on these exchanges shall be included in account 519, Miscellaneous Income, or 551, Miscellaneous Income Charges, as appropriate. Material amounts shall be recorded in accordance with Instruction 1-2(d).
