
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Items to be charged.,Cost

2-1(a) To the road and equipment property accounts shall be charged the cost of purchasing land, the cost of purchasing and constructing buildings, facilities and equipment, and the cost of additions and betterments to property,means the amount of cash disbursed, or the fair value of other assets distributed, or the present value of amounts to be paid. Where the fair market value of resources given up (assets, services or items of stockholder's equity) is not clearly determinable, the cost may be determined by the fair market value of the resources acquired. The carrier shall be prepared to furnish the Board with the particulars of its method of determining cash value when the consideration is other than monetary. The amount of liabilities incurred with suppliers in the normal course of business, which are due in customary trade terms not exceeding approximately one year, shall be recorded at the maturity value. Acquisition date is the date title passes to the carrier.

(b) The cost of road and equipment purchased under a plan involving other deferred payments (debt or capital lease) shall be recorded at the discounted present value of the payment, net of executory costs such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes. The interest rate used to discount the payments should be the prevailing market rate for similar debt instruments of issues with similar credit ratings. In any event, the rate used for valuation purposes will normally be at least equal to the rate at which the carrier can obtain financing of a similar nature from other sources at the date of the transaction (the carrier's incremental borrowing rate). In the case of a capital lease, when it is practical to ascertain the implicit rate computed by the lessor, and that rate is less than the carrier's incremental borrowing rate, the carrier should use the implicit rate. Acquisition date for a capital lease is the date the lease agreement is signed. If the property covered by the lease has yet to be constructed or has not been acquired by the lessor at the date the lease agreement or commitment is signed, the acquisition date shall be the date the property under construction is completed or the date the property not yet acquired is acquired by the lessor. (See Instruction 2-20.)
