
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 71 - STANDARD TIME ZONE BOUNDARIES
#### ยง 71.7 Boundary line between central and mountain zones.
##### Nebraska.

(c)From the junction of the west line of Tripp County, South Dakota with the South Dakota-Nebraska boundary west along that boundary to the west line of R. 30 W.; thence south along the range line between Rs. 30 and 31 W. to the southwest corner of sec. 19, T. 33 N., R. 30 W.; thence easterly along section lines to the northeast corner of sec. 29, T. 33 N., R. 30 W.; thence southerly along section lines with their offsets to the northeast corner of sec. 17, T. 32 N., R. 30 W.; thence westerly along section lines to the northwest corner of sec. 18, T. 32 N., R. 30 W.; thence southerly along the range line to the southwest corner of T. 31 N., R. 30 W.; thence easterly along the township line to the northeast corner of T. 30 N., R. 30 W.; thence southerly along the range line to the southwest corner of T. 29 N., R. 29 W.; thence westerly along the township line to the northwest corner of sec. 4, T. 28 N., R. 30 W.; thence southerly along section lines to the southwest corner of sec. 33, T. 28 N., R. 30 W.; thence easterly along the township line to the northeast corner of sec. 4, T. 27 N., R. 30 W.; thence southerly along section lines to the southwest corner of sec. 22, T. 26 N., R. 30 W.; thence easterly along section lines to the southeast corner of sec. 24, T. 26 N., R. 30 W.; thence southerly along the range line to the north line of Thomas County; thence westerly along the north line of Thomas County to the west line of Thomas County; thence south along the west line of Thomas County to the north line of McPherson County; thence west along the north line of McPherson County to the west line of McPherson County; thence south along the west line of McPherson County to the north line of Keith County; thence east along the north line of Keith County to the west line of Lincoln County; thence south along the west line of Lincoln County to the north line of Hayes County; thence west along the north lines of Hayes County to the west line of Hayes County; thence south along the west line of Hayes and Hitchcock Counties to the Nebraska-Kansas boundary.
