
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Construction projects in which governmental agencies, individuals, or others, and the carrier participate.,Other right-of-way expenditures,,Public improvements-Construction,,Other capital.

2-17(a) The amount includible in the property account for construction projects in which the carrier and governmental agencies, individuals, or others participate shall be (1) the payment made by the carrier for its share of the cost of construction plus (2) the recorded cost (estimated if unknown) of property relinquished as a direct result of the arrangement and retired from service less the value of salvage recovered therefrom by the carrier and less depreciation accrued on depreciable property, which is part of the carrier's cost of the project. The amount so includable in the property account shall be distributed equitably among the primary accounts applicable to railway property constructed. This amount shall first be applied to railway facilities includable in accounts other than 4,or 39,then any remaining balance shall be included in account 4 or 39, as appropriate. In no case shall the amount included in the primary accounts for the railway facilities acquired exceed the actual cost of constructing such facilities. The property account shall not include any cost or value for facilities or land contributed or paid for by governmental agencies, individuals or others. Property acquired as a specific contribution to capital by stockholders does not come under this rule. (See text of account 795,)

(b) Construction projects as used in this section means widening of highways, construction of spillways, drainage canals, farm and other private passes, pipelines, drains or other facilities across the right-of-way; construction of overhead highway bridges, and railroad bridges over public highways and across streams, which provide a railroad use in the operation of trains and a public use in the uninterrupted passage of highway and river traffic; installation of warning signals to protect highway traffic; and industrial side tracks. Also, reconstruction and relocation of tracks and appurtenant facilities such as occur in connection with carrying out flood control, reclamation, and other public improvement projects where it becomes necessary to abandon part of the line of railroad and relocate the tracks.
