
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Merger, consolidation, and purchase of a railway operating entity or system.

2-15

(a) When a railway or portion thereof constituting an operating unit or system is acquired in a business combination, that business combination shall be recorded in the accounts in the manner stated hereunder.

(b) Purchase:

(1) The amount includable in account 731, Road and equipment property, shall be the cost at the date of acquisition to the purchaser of the transportation property acquired. The cost assigned the property, as well as other assets acquired, shall be the amount of the cost consideration given. Where property and other assets are acquired for other than cash, including liabilities assumed and shares of stock issued, cost shall be determined by either the fair value of the consideration given or the fair value of the assets acquired, whichever is more clearly evident. In addition to any liabilities assumed, provision shall be made for such estimated liabilities as may be necessary.

(2) When the costs of individual units or classes of transportation property are not specified in the agreement, the cost assigned such property shall be apportioned among the appropriate primary accounts using the percentage relationship between the fair values for each class of property acquired and the total of such values.

(c) Merger of subsidiaries:

The acquisition and merger of property of subsidiaries controlled through ownership of the majority shares of voting stock is to be accounted for using the acquisition accounting methodology.
