
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Accounting for leases.

2-20(a) Leases shall be accounted for as capital leases whenever the lease meets one or more of the following four criteria:

(1) The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by the end of the lease term,

(2) The lease contains a bargain purchase option,

(3) The lease term is equal to 75 percent or more of the estimated economic life of the property, and,

(4) The present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum lease payments equals or exceeds 90 percent of the fair value of the leased property to the lessor at the inception of the lease less any related investment tax credit retained by the lessor.

(b) If the lease does not meet any of the four criteria, the lease shall be classified and accounted for as an operating lease.

(c) When accounting for capital leases the lessee shall record the asset and the related obligation. The amount recorded as the asset and the obligation shall be the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum lease payments during the lease term, excluding that portion of the payments representing executory costs such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes to be paid by the lessor. However, if that amount exceeds the fair value of the leased property, the amount recorded as the asset and the obligation shall be the fair value. The lessee shall compute the present value of the minimum lease payments using its incremental borrowing rate unless (1) it is practicable to learn the implicit rate computed by the lessor and (2) the implicit rate computed by the lessor is less than the lessee's incremental borrowing rate. If both of those conditions are met, the lessee shall use the implicit rate.

(d) Leased assets that meet the criteria for classification as a capital lease shall be subject to depreciation over their useful lives in the same manner as assets owned. If the capital lease meets the criteria of either Instruction 2-20(a)(1) or 2-20(a)(2), the asset shall be amortized in a manner consistent with the lessee's normal depreciation policy for owned assets. If the lease does not meet either of these two criteria, the asset shall be amortized in a manner consistent with the lessee's normal depreciation policy except that the period of amortization shall be the lease term.

(e) The accounting accorded the lease shall be subject to the same considerations as other obligations in classifying them with current and noncurrent liabilities in the classified balance sheet. Leases that meet the criteria requiring capitalization shall be recorded in those accounts that provide for carrier operating property or property used in other than carrier operations, as appropriate. The accounts shall segregate the amounts pertaining to capital leases.

(f) If the lease qualifies as an operating lease it should be accounted for by charging the rent to expense over the lease term. The rental expense should be recognized on a straight line basis over the lease term unless another method is more representative of the use and the benefits derived.

(g) The criteria specified in paragraph (a) should be applied to all leases regardless of the relationship between the lessor and the lessee unless it is clear that the terms of the lease transaction have been significantly affected by their relationship. In this situation, the accounting should be modified to recognize economic substance rather than legal form.

(h) In the case of subsidiary companies or companies under common control whose principal business activity is leasing property or facilities to the carrier, the carrier is encouraged to request special authority to file consolidated or combined financial statements. If the carrier does not wish to file consolidated or combined financial statements, capitalization of the lease will be required if the lease meets the criteria that would require capitalization.
