
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Other Income Charges,,Reserve for Adjustment of Investment in Securities.

(6) The accounting company shall write down the ledger value of any securities to the extent of impairment in their value or write off entirely if there is no reasonable prospect of realizing any value therefrom. For long term investments in marketable equity securities, when the decline in market value below cost is judged to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the individual security shall be writen down to a new cost basis. The amount of the write-down shall be accounted for as realized loss by a charge to account 551,and a credit to account 723,The new cost basis shall not be changed for subsequent recoveries in value.

(b)(1) For financial statement purposes the carrier shall follow the principles of equity accounting for (1) all investments in corporate joint ventures (see definition 21(c)), and (2) all investments in voting stock of affiliated companies giving the carrier the ability to significantly influence the operating and financial policies of an investee (see definition 21(b)). For purposes of this instruction an investment of 20 percent or more of the outstanding voting stock of an investee will indicate the ability to exercise significant influence over an investee in the absence of evidence to the contrary.

(2) Since the equity method is not to be effected by entries in the books of accounts but is to apply only in financial reports to the Board, the carrier shall establish worksheet or memorandum accounts. Three basic worksheet or memorandum accounts are needed:

(i) An investment account to include (1) equity in the undistributed earnings or losses of the investee since the date of acquisition (see definition 21(g)); (2) accumulated amortization of the difference between cost and net assets at date of acquisition (see (b)(3) below); and other adjustments for disposition or writedown of investments.

(ii) An income account to include (1) the investor's share of the investee's undistributed profits or losses for each reporting period subsequent to acquisition of the investment except that in the year of acquisition such amount shall be determined from the date of acquisition; (2) amortization for the reporting period of the difference between cost and net assets at date of acquisition. This account shall be closed at year-end to the retained earnings memorandum account discussed in paragraph (iii) below.

(iii) A retained earnings account to include (1) equity in the undistributed earnings or losses of the investee since the date of acquisition; (2) accumulated amortization of the difference between cost and net assets acquired at date of acquisition (see (b)(3) below).

(iv) Other memorandum accounts will be needed for such adjustments as gains and losses on disposition of investments, recognition of impairments in value, the investor's share of extraordinary and prior period adjustments reported in the investee's financial statements (see instruction 1-2(d)), and provision for deferred taxes where it is reasonable to assume that undistributed earnings of an investee will be transferred to the investor in a taxable distribution. These memorandum accounts shall be closed at year-end to the retained earnings memorandum account discussed in paragraph (iii) above.

(3) The carrier shall retain the following information for each investee in support of the worksheet or memorandum accounts:

(i) Original cost of investment.

(ii) Equity in net assets of investee at date of acquisition.

(iii) Allocation of difference between cost and equity in net assets, namely, to specific assets of investee or to goodwill.

(iv) Accumulated amortization of difference between cost and equity in net assets.

(v) Unamortized balance of difference between cost and equity in net assets.

(vi) Equity in undistributed earnings/losses for each year since date of acquisition.

(vii) Dividends received since date of acquisition if determinable.

(viii) Proceeds from sale of investments.

(4) Any difference between the investor's cost and its share of the net assets of the investee at date of acquisition shall be allocated to specific assets of the investee to the extent the difference is attributable to them. When the difference is allocated to depreciable or amortizable assets, depreciation and amortization (through the investment and income memorandum accounts) should absorb the difference over the remaining life of the related assets. If the difference is not related to specific accounts, it should be considered goodwill and amortized over a reasonable period not to exceed 40 years. For investments made prior to November 1, 1970, amortization of goodwill is not required in the absence of evidence that the goodwill has a limited term of existence.

(5) The financial statements of the investee that are used for equity accounting should be timely. If the accounting year of the investee differs from that of the investor then the most recent available financial statements may be used. The lag in reporting should be consistent from period to period.

(6) Material profits or losses on transactions between the investor and investee shall be eliminated until realized by either company as if the two were consolidated.

(7) A transaction of the investee of a capital nature that affects the investor's share of the investee's stockholder's equity should be reported in the financial statements as if the two were consolidated.

(8) The investor shall deduct any dividends applicable to outstanding cumulative preferred stock whether or not declared, and any other dividends declared when computing its share of undistributed earnings or losses.

(9) The investor shall suspend application of the equity method when the investment (including the investment memorandum account) together with any net advances made to the investee is reduced to zero. Additional losses shall not be provided for unless the investor has guaranteed obligations of the investee or is otherwise committed to provide further financial support for the investee. If the investee subsequently reports net income the investor shall resume applying the equity method at such time as its share of that net income equals the share of net losses not recognized during the period of suspension.

(10) When the investor's voting stock interest falls below the level of ownership described in paragraph (b)(1) of this instruction, the investment no longer qualifies for the equity method. Should dividends received on the investment in subsequent periods exceed the investor's share of earnings for such periods, the investment memorandum and income memorandum accounts shall be reduced by the excess amount.

(11) When the level of ownership of an investment increases to that described in paragraph (b)(1) of this instruction, the equity method shall be applied. The memorandum accounts for the investment, income (for current year's equity in undistributed earnings less amoritzation), and retained earnings (for prior years' equity in undistributed earnings less amortization) shall be adjusted retroactively on a step-by-step basis determining the equity in net assets at date of acquisition, amortization adjustment, and equity in undistributed earnings or losses at each level of ownership. Where small purchases are made over a period of time and then a purhase is made which qualifies the investment for the equity method, the date of latest purchase may be used as date of acquisition.

(12) Information having significance with respect to the investor's ownership in investees shall be disclosed in notes to financial statements of annual reports filed with the Board in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

(c) When securities with a fixed maturity date are purchased at a discount (i.e., when total cost including brokerage fees, taxes, commissions, etc., is less than par), such discounts may be amortized over the remaining life of the securities through periodic debits to the account in which the securities are carried (preferably coincident with entries recording interest accruals) and credits to the same account in which interest income is credited. No debits shall be made in respect to discounts upon securities held as investments or in special funds if there is reason to believe that such securities will be disposed of by redemption or otherwise at less than par or will not be paid at date of maturity. When securities with a fixed maturity date are purchased at a premium (i.e., when the total cost including brokerage fees, taxes, commissions, etc., is in excess of par), such premium may be amortized over the remaining life of the securities through periodic credits to the account in which the securities are carried (preferably coincident with entries recording interest accruals) and debits to the same accounts in which the interest income is recorded.
