
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Property used in other than carrier operations,

(d) When power plants are intended and used solely for furnishing power to others, their investment cost shall be included in account 737,and the revenues and operating expenses shall be included in the accounts provided for operations of such property.

(e) The accounting for the maintenance of transmission systems and distribution systems shall be in accordance with instructions pertaining to power plant operations.

The several primary accounts included in this general account are designed to show the cost of land and road property owned by the carrier and devoted to transportation service.

This account shall include the cost of land of necessary width acquired for roadway; the cost of land for station, office, shop, and other grounds; for ingress to or egress from such grounds; for borrow pits, waste banks, snow fences, sand fences, and other railway appurtenances; and for storage of material adjoining the right-of-way; the cost of land for wharves and docks and the cost of riparian or water rights necessary therefor; the cost of removing from the right-of-way and locating elsewhere the property of others, and the cost of the necessary land for relocation of the property, when such costs are assumed by the accounting carrier.

The carrier's records shall be kept in such manner as to show separately the cost of land purchased. Proceeds from the sale of timber or of improvements purchased with right-of-way, less any cost of removal, shall be credited to this account.

(a) This account shall include the cost of clearing and grading the roadway, and of constructing protection for the roadway, tracks, embankments and cuts.

(b) When a part of a bridge or trestle, or the entire structure, is converted by filling into an earth embankment, and the bridge or trestle is used in lieu of a temporary trestle which would otherwise be required for the filling, the estimated cost of such temporary trestle shall be included in the cost of the filling, and charged to this account. (See note A, under account 6, "Bridges, trestles, and culverts.")

(c) When a tunnel is converted into an open cut, the cost of clearing, grubbing, and excavating shall be included in this account. (Also see instruction 2-11.)

This account shall include the cost (in excess of cost of railway facilities installed, if any) actually borne by the carrier of improvement projects (other than public improvement projects), such as the construction of canals, farm and other private passes, pipe lines, drains, and other facilities across the carrier's right-of-way.

This account shall include the cost of tunnels and subways for the passage of trains, including apparatus for ventilating and lighting and safety devices therein, other than signals.

This account shall include the cost of the substructure and superstructure of bridges, trestles, and culverts which carry the tracks of the carrier over water-courses, ravines, public and private highways, and other railways.

This account shall include the cost of elevated structures and foundations of elevated railway systems. This account is applicable to structures other than earthwork, which are for the purpose of elevating tracks above the grade of streets, and which are not properly classifiable as bridges or trestles.

(a) This account shall include the cost of cross, switch, bridge and other track ties used in the construction of tracks for the movement or storage of locomotives and cars (including tracks in shop, fuel station, supply yard areas, etc.), and the cost of additional ties subsequently laid in such tracks. This account should also include the cost of labor for unloading, distributing and placing ties in tracks.

(b) The cost of handling ties in general supply and storage yards shall be included as store expenses.

(a) This account shall include the cost of rails and other track material used in the construction of tracks for the movement or storage of locomotives and cars (including tracks in shop, fuel station, supply yard areas, etc.); the cost of welding two or more lengths or rail into continuous lengths for use in construction of tracks; and the cost of labor associated with unloading and installation of the rail and other track material.
