
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Roadway machines.

(b) The cost of on and/or off-track automotive vehicles, which are permanently equipped with special-purpose machinery and used exclusively in maintenance of way and structures, shall be charged to account 37,

This account shall include the cost of mainframe and mini-computers and data processing equipment as well as the cost of word processing equipment that is not dedicated to a particular function. Essentially this account consists of all computer-related equipment that remains under the control of the data processing department. This account shall also include the cost of foundations, power supply, fixtures, appurtenances and other devices to prepare this equipment for use.

The primary accounts of this general account are designed to include expenditures made in connection with the acquisition and construction of original road and equipment, and with extension, additions, and betterments to road and equipment property, when such expenditures cannot properly be included in any of the foregoing accounts as a part of the cost of any specific work. When assignable, such expenditures shall be included in the cost of the property for which the expenditures occurred.

(a) When any bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness are sold, or any interest-bearing debt is incurred for acquisition and construction of original road and equipment, extensions, additions, and betterments, the interest accruing on the part of the debt representing the cost of property chargeable to road and equipment accounts (less interest, if any, allowed by depositaries on unexpended balances) after such funds become available for use and before the receipt or the completion or coming into service of the property so acquired shall be charged to this account.

(b) When such securities are sold at a premium, the proportion of such premium assignable to the time between the date of the actual issuance of the securities and the time when the property acquired or the improvement made becomes available for service shall be credited to this account.

(c) This account shall also include such proportion of the discount and expense on funded debt issued for the acquisition of original road, original equipment, road extensions, additions, and betterments, as is equitably assignable to the period between the date of the actual issuance of securities and the time when the property acquired or the improvement made become available for the service for which it is intended. The proportion of discount and expense thus chargeable shall be determined by the ratio between the period prior to the completion or coming into service of the facilities or improvements acquired and the period of the entire life of the securities issued.

(a) This account shall include amounts resulting from adjustment of the primary property accounts to conform with cost of property in valuation records. The amount in this account shall be cleared on a consistent basis as property is retired from service or otherwise in accordance with the rules in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this account. Any material amount in this account assignable to property previously retired from service shall be cleared immediately.
