
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### other track material

(b) The cost of handling rails andin general supply and storage yards shall be included as store expenses.

(a) This account shall include the cost of gravel, stone, slag, cinders, sand, and like material used in ballasting tracks (including tracks in shop, fuel station, and supply yard areas, etc.) including cost of worktrain service and the cost of labor expended in placing ballast in tracks.

This account shall include:

(a) Fences. The cost of right-of-way fences and snow and sand fences, farm gates, cattle guards, wing fences, aprons, and hedges, on property not previously fenced, excluding those around stockyards, fuel stations, station and shop grounds, and building sites.

(b) Snowsheds. The cost of snowsheds, including initial cost of planting trees for protecting tracks from snow.

(c) Signs. The initial cost of signs other than those for identification of bridges, signals, stations and other structures.

This account shall include the cost of station and general office structures, their fixtures, appurtenances, and furniture necessary to equip the buildings ready for use.

This account shall include the cost of roadway shops and other roadway buildings, including drainage, water, gas, and sewer pipes and connections; and all machinery, fixtures, and furniture to equip the building ready for use.

This account shall include the cost of structures, facilities, and appliances necessary to equip for service, stations for supplying water. The cost of analyses of water preliminary to the establishment of water stations shall be included in this account.

This account shall include the cost of structures, facilities other than tracks, and appliances necessary to equip for service, stations for supplying fuel to locomotives and floating equipment.
