
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Other debits to retained earnings,,Other credits to retained earnings.

(c) A carrier may apply to the Board for authority to clear the entire balance from this account immediately or amortize the balance over a short period of time by appropriate inclusion in account 616,or account 606Any amount so authorized or directed by the Board to be cleared and written off to retained income shall be in lieu of amounts includible in accounts indicated in paragraph (b).

(d) Other plans for clearance, disposition, or classification of a balance in this account in conformity with sound accounting principles may be submitted to the Board with suitable details for consideration. This includes application for disposition of a balance in this account attributable to reduction of capitalization in a reorganization. An accounting procedure so applied for shall become effective only after Board approval. Each carrier shall maintain a record of items initially included in and cleared later from this account and the basis used in computing such items.

This account shall include expenditures incurred by the carrier in the process of constructing road and equipment with its own forces or under contract during the period prior to the time property is placed in transportation operations, including cost of materials and supplies located at point of use and of necessary land acquired for such projects. When a project is completed or when a segment of a large project is completed and placed in service, the cost of the completed project or the completed segment thereof shall be transferred to the appropriate road and equipment primary accounts. Separate subaccounts may be maintained for road, equipment, or other classes of expenditures. Expenditures for relatively unimportant projects may be included directly in primary accounts.

The primary accounts included in this general account are designed to show amounts of money which the carrier becomes entitled to receive or which accrue to its benefit from services rendered in transporting property or persons by rail line. The detail accounts include in this general account series are summarized in account 501, Railway Operating Revenues.

(a) This account shall include revenue from the transportation of freight and from transit, stop, and reconsigning privileges, upon the basis of lawful tariff rates.

(b) This account shall include collections in excess of tariff charges, except where such amounts are segregated and held subject to refund.

(c) Proceeds derived from the sale of unclaimed and refused freight which has been transported in accordance with the contract of shipment shall be credited to this account in cases where such items can be readily identified. Uncollected tariff charges on such shipments shall be charged to this account.
