
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Shop machinery

This account shall include the cost of buildings to be used as shops and enginehouses and storehouses for material for maintenance of equipment; foundations, except those special to particular machines and other apparatus; furniture and fixtures other than equipment chargeable to account 44,; drainage, sewerage, and water supply systems; and plants for heat and light.

This account shall include the cost of storage warehouses, including machinery and fixtures therein. The buildings herein referred to are not the ordinary freight warehouses or stations where freight is received for shipment, etc., but warehouses in which merchandise is stored and which the railway companies operate as storage warehouses.

This account shall include the cost of wharves, docks, dry docks, slips, float bridges, and other landings for vessels, including the cost of necessary dredging and the cost of float-bridge machinery; also the cost of piling, pile protection, cribs, cofferdams, walls, and other necessary devices and apparatus for the operation or protection of wharves and docks.

This account shall include the cost of wharves and docks for the transfer, treatment, blending, or storage of coal or ore, including the cost of necessary dredging and of conveyors, machinery, and fixtures.

This account shall include the cost of structures, fixtures, machinery and appurtenances comprising terminals used for loading and unloading trailers and containers on and from flat cars.

This account shall include the cost of telegraph, telephone, radio, radar, inductive train communication, and other communication systems, including terminal equipment.

This account shall include the cost of interlocking and other signals apparatus for governing the movements of locomotives, cars, and trains, and for the protection of traffic at crossings, including towers and other buildings, furniture, fixtures, and machinery in connection therewith; roadway installations for train control and remote control including the cost of the initial tests of such installation; also the cost of buildings and machinery of power plants used primarily for the production of power for the operation of signals and interlockers.

This account shall include the cost of systems for conveying electricity, steam, and compressed air from producing plants to place or building where used; also the cost of conduits and of poles, cross arms, insulator pins, brackets, and other pole fixtures, and of other structures for power-transmission and distribution systems, including those for electric railway operation, and lighting systems for general lighting purposes.

This account shall include the cost of all permanent structures not provided for elsewhere, including all fixtures and furniture to equip them for use.

This account shall include the cost of the initial outfit of roadway machines provided for the maintenance of roadway and structures at the time the road is opened for commercial traffic, and the cost of additional roadway machines acquired subsequently. This account shall also include the cost of on and/or off-track automotive vehicles, permanently equipped with special-purpose machinery such as hydraulic cranes, derricks, ditching apparatus, pile-driving equipment, and similar machines listed below, and used exclusively in maintenance of way and structures.

This account shall include amounts assessed on carrier property by governmental authority (by mutual agreement or otherwise) to cover the cost of constructing public improvements, when such assessments are made against property within defined areas of taxing districts. The account also shall include carrier's portion of the cost of public improvements constructed under governmental requirements. (See instruction 2-17.) The entire amount of each assessment and other liabilities for public improvements shall be included in this account as soon as the amounts are determined.

This account shall include the cost of machinery and other apparatus in shops and engine houses, including the cost of special foundations and installation and cost of small hand tools necessary first to equip a shop.

This account shall include the cost of machinery and other apparatus in power plants and substations for generating and transforming power used for the operation of trains and cars or to furnish power, heat, and light for stations, shops, and general purposes, and also the cost of foundations special to particular machines or other apparatus including the cost of installation.

The several primary accounts included in this general account are designed to show the cost of the several classes of equipment vehicles and shop and power plant equipment owned by the carrier, or held under equipment trust agreements or other contractual obligation for purchase of the property.

(a) This account shall include the cost of locomotives and tenders purchased or built by the carrier, and of appurtenances, furniture, and fixtures necessary to equip them for service, including the cost of inspection, setting up, and trying out after receipt from builders, and transportation charges to the carrier's line. This account may also include the cost of spare engines carried on hand for the purpose of temporarily replacing similar units removed from locomotives for overhaul, repair or other reason.

(b) Records shall be maintained to reflect separately the investment cost of locomotives on the basis of their initial identification for depreciation purposes; i.e., road passenger, road freight, road switching and yard switching.

This account shall include the cost of freight-train cars of all classes, such as motor-driven cars, purchased or built by the carrier, including all appurtenances, furniture, and fixtures necessary to equip them for service, and the cost of inspection and transportation charges to the carrier's line.

This account shall include the cost of passenger-train cars of all classes, such as motor-driven cars, purchased or built by the carrier, including all appurtenances, furniture, and fixtures necessary to equip them for service, and cost of inspection and transportation charges to the carrier's line.

(a) This account shall include the cost of highway vehicles used in revenue transportation service, including pickup and delivery service, substitute line-haul service, and TOFC/COFC service; also the cost of appurtenances (such as radio communication equipment) necessary to equip them for service, and the inspection and transportation costs and charges required for delivery of the vehicles into the carrier's revenue service.

(b) Records shall be maintained to identify the carrier's investment in the following equipment, including appurtenances:

This account shall include the cost of marine or floating equipment of all kinds except work equipment, purchased or built by the carrier, including all appurtenances, furniture, and fixtures necessary to equip it for service, and cost of inspection and transportation charges to the carrier's line.

This account shall include the cost of work equipment, including motor-driven equipment, purchased or built by the carrier; cost of appurtenances, furniture, and fixtures necessary to equip it for service; and cost of inspection and transportation charges to the carrier's line.

(a) This account shall include the cost of automobiles, trucks and other highway equipment not used in revenue transportation service and not provided for elsewhere; the cost of airplanes; the cost of appurtenances (such as radio communication equipment) necessary to equip them for service; and the inspection and transportation costs and charges required for delivery of the vehicles to the carrier.
