
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### trapcar,ferry-car,penalty switching

(a) This account shall include the revenue from switching service upon the basis of lawful tariff rates. To this account shall be credited the carrier's revenue upon the basis of tariff rates, or the carrier's allowance out of through rates, from the switching of cars of all kinds, loaded or empty, either locally at a station or within a switching district, between connecting lines, between local industries, or between connecting lines and local industries; revenue upon the basis of distinct tariff rates forandservice and for spotting cars; also the revenue from interwork switching at industrial plants, and the revenue fromincident to the improper delivery of cars by other carriers.

(b) To this account shall be charged amounts paid others for switching when such switching service is provided for in the switching rate charged by the carrier.

(a) This account shall include the revenue, from the transfer by water (ferriage, lighterage, and floatage) of passenger, freight, vehicles and livestock, upon the basis of lawful local tariff rates.

(b) This account also shall include revenue from water transfers of other traffic, such as the revenue from towing beyond lighterage limits and all other towing for which an extra charge is made; insurance of freight afloat when billed out at other than cost; storage of freight afloat; grain overage in boats; pumping performed for outside parties; and from other similar sources.

(c) To this account shall be charged amounts payable to other companies or individuals for extra lighterage, extra towing, and for all other service when such payments represent revenue collected and credited to this account and not a direct expense.

This account shall include the revenue from the detention of cars incident to loading, unloading, reconsigning, and stops in transit upon the basis of lawful tariffs for demurrage. This account shall also include the revenue from the detention of trailers and containers used in TOFC/COFC service, incident to loading and unloading, upon the basis of tariff rates.

This account is designed to show the amounts which the carrier becomes entitled to receive from services rendered incidentally with rail-line and water-line transportation; for the use of facilities of which the expenses for operation and maintenance are not separable from railway expenses and from incidental sources not provided for elsewhere. Among the items included in this account are revenues derived from (1) hotels and restaurants, (2) operations conducted at stations and on trains by individual or companies other than railway companies, (3) storage, (4) the sale of electric power, (5) renting property operated and maintained in connection with the property used in the carrier's transportation operations and from railway operations not provided for elsewhere.

The primary accounts included in this general account are designed to show the carrier's proportion of revenues collected by others in connection with operation of joint facilities and the amount payable by the carrier to other companies from operation of joint facilities.

This account shall include the carrier's proportion of revenue collected by others in connection with the operation of joint tracks, yards, terminals, and other facilities, including revenue from hotels, restaurants, grain elevators, sale of power, and other miscellaneous operations.

This account shall include that proportion of revenue from the operation of joint tracks, yards, terminals, and other facilities, which is creditable to other companies, including revenue from hotels, restaurants, grain elevators, sale of power, and other miscellaneous operations.

(1) The operating expense accounts use a six-digit code. The first two digits denote natural expense, the second two digits denote activity/subactivity, and the third two digits denote detailed functions. [See Table A for an overview of the coding structure and Tables B-E for detailed functions.]

(2) The operating expense account explanations use a three-tier format. Section 1 contains natural expense explanations with applicable activity/subactivity and function assignment. Section 2 details the activity/subactivity explanations. Section 3 explains the functions appropriate for each activity/subactivity. To obtain a complete explanation for a particular account, refer to section 1 to locate the natural expense and activity/subactivity (first four digits) and read the appropriate account text. Accounts that are assigned to functions are appropriately listed. For further information, refer to section 2 and section 3.

(3) All accounts listed in Table A and section 1 are for freight only. Refer to Table F for applicable passenger or common account codes. Account numbers designated with an asterisk in section 1 denote freight only accounts, while other accounts are used for both freight and passenger or common accounts.

(4) All expense assigned to common operating accounts shall be allocated to freight and passenger accounts in accordance with part 1242 of this chapter.

This account may be used as a control account for all accounts in theSeries: Salaries and Wages. Fringe Benefits Not Included in Compensation.

This account series includes the compensation payable to employees for services performed. It includes amounts payable in connection with profit sharing and stock option plans that are part of employee compensation. This account series also includes amounts of compensation payable to employees for paid time off as a fringe benefit: Vacation pay, holiday pay, sick pay, and other payments considered direct compensation for time not worked. Amounts of labor billed by contractors, other companies, and joint facilities, are not considered salaries and wages of the carrier company and are not to be included in this account group. Its components shall be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-12.

This account series includes amounts payable to others, or other costs charged to expense, for employee benefits which are not considered part of direct compensation. These benefits include the carrier portions of Railroad Retirement contributions, pension expense, unemployment taxes, dental plans, health plans, hospitalization insurance, life insurance, subsidies for employee lunchrooms, company entertainment facilities for personal use, and other benefits to employees that are not includible in direct compensation. They exclude travel expense on company business, casualties, workmen's compensation, as well as dues, memberships, and similar items when the direct beneficiary is clearly the company rather than the employee.

This account may be used as a control account for theseries: Materials, Tools, Supplies, Fuels, Lubricants.

This account group includes the cost of items installed or commodities consumed which are charged to expense in connection with carrier operations. This account group includes charges to expense for all materials, small tools, supplies, fuels, lubricants, purchased standard stationery and forms, freight-in on materials and supplies, and similar items. This account group excludes purchased services such as utilities, communications, postage and other items of similar nature. Its components shall be distributed to the following accounts:

This account may be used as a control account for all accounts in theseries:

This account series includes the rentals of road property and equipment with terms of 30 days or more. This account excludes joint facility and joint trackage rents, insurance and maintenance elements of lease payments, and all elements of capital leases as defined in FASB Statement No. 13. Capitalized leases shall be included in the applicable property account for the particular asset leased [See Instruction 2-11b]. The components of this natural expense will be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-18:

This account group includes the rentals of owned property and equipment or subleases of leased road property and equipment with terms of from 30 days to one year. Longer term leases are indicative of a noncarrier operation and all revenues and expenses related to such property and equipment should be classified accordingly and excluded from railroad operations. This account excludes joint facilities and joint trackage, capital leases, and portions of lease receipts covering maintenance and insurance. The components of this natural expense account will be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-18:

This account group includes amounts payable accrued as rent for equipment, tracks, yards, terminals, and other facilities owned or controlled by other carriers, companies, or individuals, and in the joint use of which the accounting company participates. Amounts paid or payable by the accounting company in reimbursement for taxes on property jointly used shall be charged to this account.

The cost of maintenance, operation, or administration of joint facilities, chargeable to the accounting company, shall be charged to the various joint facility accounts (37-XX-00). When the compensation for the use of joint facilities is a fixed amount or is based upon a charge per passenger, ton, car, or other unit, it shall be fairly apportioned between this account and Joint Facility-Dr. (37-XX-00). This apportionment shall be made by the operating company and shall be followed by the accounting company.

The components of this natural expense consist of the following accounts:

This account series includes amounts receivable accrued for rent of equipment, tracks, yards, terminals and other facilities owned or controlled by the accounting company and used jointly with other companies or individuals. Amounts receivable from other companies in reimbursement for taxes on property jointly used shall be credited to this account.

The portion of the cost of maintenance, operation, or administration of joint facilities recoverable from others shall be credited to the various joint facility accounts (38-XX-00). When the compensation for the use of joint facilities is a fixed amount or is based upon a charge per passenger, ton, car, or other unit, it shall be fairly apportioned by the creditor between this account and Joint Facility-Cr. (38-XX-00).

The components of this account series shall be distributed to the following accounts:

This account group includes the rents with terms of less than 30 days which are not renewed. This account includes all time and mileage payments for interchange locomotive, freight car, and other revenue equipment hire. The components of this account will be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-18:

This account includes rents with terms of less than 30 days which are not renewed. This account includes all time and mileage receipts for interchanged locomotive, freight car, and other revenue equipment hire. The components of this account will be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-18:

This account includes joint trackage and joint facility costs, exclusive of rents, payable by the railroad to others. The components of this account will be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-18:

This account group includes joint trackage and joint facility costs, exclusive of rents, payable by others to the railroad. The components of this account will be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-18:

This account group includes amounts payable by the railroad to others for repair and maintenance of the reporting railroad's property and equipment. The components of this account shall be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-18:

This account series includes amounts payable by others to the railroad for repair and maintenance of others' road property and equipment. The components of this account shall be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-18:

This account group includes amounts charged or credited to operating expenses for purchased advertising; purchased printing; outside professional services such as legal, accounting, audit, engineering, and consulting; payments for detour of trains; utilities, telephone, postage, subscriptions, communications, purchased electric power for train and locomotive propulsion; and other services purchased. The components of this account group shall be distributed to the following accounts in accordance with Instruction 1-18:

This account may be used as a control account for all accounts in theseries: Loss and Damage Claims, Other Casualties, Insurance.

This account series includes amounts payable to compensate for the loss or damage of freight or other goods carried in revenue service. Loss and damage claims should not be allocated. When specific identification of loss and damage claims is possible, the related expenses shall be directly assigned to the Train, Yard, or Specialized service Subactivity. If a solely related determination cannot be made the loss and damage claim shall be charged to the Train and Yard Subactivity. This account series excludes amounts payable to employees or other parties for injuries sustained or loss of life; for damage to real property of others or personal property not carried in revenue services; all payments for other damages of any kind; and related insurance premiums. These costs are appropriately charged to the following accounts:

This account includes amounts payable to employees or other parties for injuries sustained or loss of life in connection with the construction, maintenance, operations, and administration of railroad property and equipment; for damage to real property, property of others or personal property not carried in revenue service; all payments for other damages of any kind. This account excludes freight and other goods carried in a revenue service, and insurance premiums related to the casualties chargeable to this account.

This account series include premiums for insurance to cover property and equipment loss and damage, liability, business interruption, and the like. These costs are appropriately charged to the following accounts:

This account may be used as a control account for all accounts in theseries: Other Expenses, Depreciation, Uncollectible Accounts, Property Taxes, Other Taxes.

This account series includes amounts charged to operating expenses for items not otherwise provided for in the other natural expense accounts, including travel and other expenses of employees, road property and equipment retirement losses, and other items of a general nature.

This account includes amounts charged to operating expenses for items not otherwise provided for in the other natural expense accounts, including travel and other expenses of employees, road property retirement losses, and other items of a general nature associated with the carrier's structures other than roadway and track. This account shall be subdivided by the following functions:

This account group includes the amounts charged to operating expenses for depreciation of owned road property and equipment, and the depreciation element of road property held under capital lease in accordance with FASB Statement No. 13. These costs are appropriately charged to the following accounts:

This account includes charges to operating expenses for the writedown of accounts and notes due to the railroad, whether classified as current or long-term. This account includes any credits to allowance accounts for collectibility and total writeoff of receivables. This account does not include writedowns of property, equipment, or investments (except accounts, notes, or other receivables held as investments). Proper adjustments of incorrect receivables are not to be charged to this account. Collections of amounts previously written off or down are to be credited to this account. The total of this account shall be charged to the following account:

This account includes only taxes based on the value of real estate and personal property used in railroad operations. The total of this account shall be charged to the following account:

This account includes taxes on gross receipts, franchise fees, excise taxes, and similar items. This account excludes property taxes and taxes chargeable as employee benefits. The total of this account shall be charged to the following account:
