
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Train Operations

(1)subactivity of the Transportation activity refers to operations of all trains except those performing yard functions in terminals. It includes running trains in road or way service; switching trains except where such switching is performed within yards or terminals; and making customer pick-ups and deliveries except in yards and terminals.

It also provides for dispatching, controlling, reporting, and monitoring road train movements; inspecting and lubricating trains; servicing, fueling, and cleaning (not repairing or maintaining) locomotives; purchasing or producing electric power for motive power; and operating supporting activities such as communications, signaling, crossing protection, and interlockings.

This subactivity also includes crew calling and transporting; crew lodging, meals, and other expenses; lost or damaged freight; casualties and insurance; clearing wrecks; and operating joint tracks and facilities except for yards or specialized services. It also includes salaries and wages, fringe benefits, material and supplies, fuel and lubricants, purchased services, casualty and damages, and other natural expense elements incurred in operating trains.

The Train Operations subactivity excludes the operation of specialized services, all of which should be charged to the Specialized Services Operations subactivity. However, road or way switching between trains and specialized service facilities outside of terminal areas belongs to the Train Operations subactivity.

Work and other nonrevenue train operating costs are to be charged to the appropriate supported activity. Shipments of company materials normally should be charged to this subactivity, except where the train movement is exclusively or predominantly for such nonrevenue purpose where the supported activity should bear the train operating costs.
