
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Salvage value.

(b) Materials recovered for reuse in connection with construction, maintenance, or the retirement of property shall be charged to this account at cost, or average cost, estimated if not known, less accumulated depreciation, if any, plus the cost to restore the materials to a serviceable condition, or current market value, whichever is lower. (See definition 31,)

(c) Scrap and other nonusable materials, including obsolete parts, shall be included in account 713, "Other current assets," at the estimated salvage value when the sale of the materials is imminent and there is a relatively firm market price. Obsolete parts not subject to imminent sale shall be included in account 741, "Other assets," at their net realizable value.

(d) Material and supplies shall be credited to this account and charged to the appropriate operating expense or other account on the basis of recorded cost, average cost, or other recognized pricing system, provided that such system is consistently applied and is based on the cost of such material and supplies.

(e) An inventory of material and supplies shall be taken during each calendar year and the necessary adjustments to bring this account into harmony with the actual inventory balances shall be made in the accounts of the year in which the inventories are taken. In effecting this adjustment, determined differences in accounting for important classes of material shall be equitably assigned among the accounts to which the classes of material are ordinarily chargeable. Other differences shall be equitably apportioned among the primary accounts to which material has been charged since the last inventory. (Also see instruction 5-1(b).)

This account shall include amounts for other current assets which are not includible in the foregoing current asset accounts.
