
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### General and Administrative

(D)activity refers to the providing of overall administration or other general support for carrier operations. It comprehends only that portion of general and administrative activities that relates to carrier operations (as distinguished from noncarrier operations or nonoperating activities) including executive, legal, financial, treasury, accounting, budgeting, taxation, corporate planning, costing, marketing, advertising, traffic, corporate secretary, public relations, real estate, insurance administration, personnel administration, pension plan administration, general purchasing, labor relations, internal auditing, industrial engineering, and regulatory reporting.

This activity excludes expenses incurred for noncarrier operations of the carrier company as well as for general administration of the corporate entity and nonoperating income or expenses. It also excludes expenses in performance of or direct support for Way and Structures, Equipment, and Transportation activities, with particular attention to the Administrative Support Operations subactivity.

(a) Functions Related to the Way and Structures Activity

(1) Administration Functions.

(02) Administration, Track-General administration and supervision of central, regional, and divisional engineering functions related to repair and maintenance of track. Used only in Way and Structures-Other. Included are:

(03) Administration, Bridges and Buildings-General administration and supervision of central, regional and divisional engineering functions related to repair and maintenance of bridges and buildings. Used only in Way and Structures-Other. Included are:

(04) Administration, Signals-General administration and supervision of central, regional, and divisional engineering functions related to repair and maintenance of signals. Used only in Way and Structures-Other. Included are:

(05) Administration, Communications-General administration and supervision of central, regional, and divisional engineering functions related to repair and maintenance of communication facilities. Used only in Way and Structures-Other. Included are:

(06) Administration, Other-General administration and supervision of central, regional, and divisional engineering functions related to repair and maintenance of other roadway property. Used only in Way and Structures-Other. Included are:

(2) Repair and Maintenance Functions-These functions include:

(10) Repair and Maintenance, Roadway-Roadway, cuts, fills, banks, embankments, subgrade, roadbed, ditches, drains, landscaping; cutting and removing grass, brush, debris; dressing ballast; preventing and extinguishing fires; patrolling and inspection; roadway relocation.

(11) Repair and Maintenance, Tunnels and Subways-Repaving, ventilating, lighting, other maintenance.

(12) Repair and Maintenance, Bridges and Culverts-Bridges, trestles, culverts and elevated structures which carry tracks; repairing, filling, dredging, cleaning, watching these structures.

(13) Repair and Maintenance, Ties-Cross, switch, bridge, and other track ties. This function includes expenses associated with unloading, distributing and placing ties in tracks.

(14) Repair and Maintenance, Rails and Other Track Material-All track material used in repair of tracks except ballast and ties. This function includes expenses associated with unloading and installing Rail and Other Track Material.

(16) Repair and Maintenance, Ballast-Gravel, stone, slag, cinders, sand, and like material.

(19) Repair and Maintenance, Signals and Interlockers-Signals and interlockers and related apparatus governing train movement.

(20) Repair and Maintenance, Communications Systems-Telephone, telegraph, radio, radar, inductive train communication, and other communication systems, including terminal equipment.

(21) Repair and Maintenance, Power Systems-Power plants, substations, transmission and distribution systems.

(22) Repair and Maintenance, Highway Grade Crossings-Highway grade crossing signals, gates, and related apparatus.

(23) Repair and Maintenance, Station and Office Buildings-Station and office buildings, fixtures, appurtenances, and grounds.

(24) Repair and Maintenance, Shop Buildings-Locomotives-Shops and buildings, fixtures, appurtenances, and grounds, used for the repair, maintenance and servicing of locomotives.

(25) Repair and Maintenance, Shop Buildings-Freight Cars-Shops and buildings, fixtures, appurtenances, and grounds, used for the repair, maintenance, and servicing of freight cars.

(26) Repair and Maintenance, Shop Buildings-Other-Shops and buildings, fixtures, appurtenances, and grounds, used for the repair, maintenance, and servicing of revenue service equipment other than locomotives and freight cars; roadway machines; work equipment and the like.

(27) Repair and Maintenance, Locomotive Servicing Facilities-Fuel and water stations, fixtures, appurtenances, and grounds.

(28) Repair and Maintenance, Miscellaneous Buildings and Structures. All permanent buildings and structures, and their fixtures, appurtenances, and grounds, not otherwise provided for. (Includes storehouses.)

(29) Repair and Maintenance, Coal Terminals-Wharves, docks, and other loading or unloading facilities for handling coal, including conveyors, machinery and fixtures.

(30) Repair and Maintenance, Ore Terminal-Wharves, docks, and other loading or unloading facilities for handling ores and other bulk mineral commodities, including conveyors, machinery and fixtures.

(31) Repair and Maintenance, TOFC/COFC-Terminals-TOFC/COFC terminal structures, fixtures, machinery and appurtenances, used for transfer of trailers and containers.

(32) Repair and Maintenance, Other Marine Terminals-Marine terminal structures, fixtures, machinery and appurtenances not otherwise provided for.

(33) Repair and Maintenance, Motor Vehicle Loading and Distribution Facilities-Buildings, structures, fixtures, machinery and appurtenances used for receipt, loading, unloading, and distribution of motor vehicles.

(35) Repair and Maintenance Facilities for Other Specialized Services Operations-Buildings, structures, machinery, fixtures and grounds, used as part or whole of a revenue-producing specialized service.

(36) Repair and Maintenance, Roadway Machines-Machines and equipment used for repairs of roadway and structures.

(37) Small tools and Supplies-Cost of small tools and supplies used in repair and maintenances.

(38) Snow Removal-Removal of snow and ice; plow and flange service; setting up, taking down and storing fences. If the amount of labor expense is not substantial, the wages of those employees who perform snow removal duties may be included in the appropriate expense accounts for the duties they are normally assigned.

(39) Dismantling Retired Property-Dismantling retired road property when the property is not to be replaced through normal maintenance, addition or betterment.

(48) Road Property Damaged-Repair of roadway property and structures, used in revenue service, and all equipment not used in revenue service, when damage is caused by derailments, collision, fire, explosions, sabotage, other casualties, and excluding damage resulting through normal operations or use; such as part failures, overloads, overheating, short circuits and similar events. Part failures through normal operations are those where the resulting damage is restricted to the unit of road property which experienced the failure. When the damage extends to other units of road property, related expenses shall be charged to this function.

(3) Other Function.

(99) Other-All expenses not properly includable in the above functions.

(b) Functions Related to the Equipment Activity

(1) Administrative Functions.

(01) Administration, General-General administration and supervision of central, regional, and divisional repair and maintenance functions. Included are:

(2) Repair and Maintenance Functions-These functions include:

(39) Dismantling Retired Property-Dismantling retired equipment when the property is not to be replaced through normal maintenance, addition or betterment.

(40) [Reserved]

(41) Repair and Maintenance, Locomotives-Repair of locomotives in revenue service.

(42) Repair and Maintenance, Freight Cars-Repair of freight cars and attached motor equipment in revenue service.

(43) Repair and Maintenance, Trucks, Trailers, Containers in Revenue Service-Repair, inspection, and lubrication of trucks, trailers and containers in revenue service.

(44) Repair and Maintenance, Floating Equipment in Revenue Service-Floating equipment including appurtenances.

(45) Repair and Maintenance, Passenger and Other Revenue Equipment-Repair, inspection and lubrication of passenger train cars and attached motor equipment, and other equipment used in revenue service.

(46) Repair and Maintenance, Computer Systems and Word Processing Systems-Computers and attached peripheral equipment; data recording and punch-card processing equipment; word processing equipment.

(47) Repair and Maintenance, Work and Other Non-Revenue Equipment-Rail and floating work equipment and appurtenances, and all other equipment not used in revenue service and not provided for elsewhere.

(48) Equipment Damaged-Repair of locomotives, freight cars, other equipment used in revenue service, and all equipment not used in revenue service, when damage is caused by derailment, collision, fire, explosions, sabotage, washouts, or other casualties, and excluding damage resulting through normal operations or use, such as part failures, overloads, overheating, short circuits and the like. Part failures through normal operations are those where the resulting damage is restricted to the equipment that experienced the failure. When the damage extends to other units of equipment, related repairs shall be charged to this function.

(49) Repair and Maintenance, Shop Machinery-Locomotives-Repair of shop machinery and other apparatus, including special foundations used for the repair, maintenance and servicing of locomotives.

(50) Repair and Maintenance, Shop Machinery-Freight Cars-Repair of shop machinery and other apparatus, including special foundations for the repair, maintenance and servicing of freight cars.

(51) Repair and Maintenance, Shop Machinery-Other Equipment-Repair of shop machinery and other apparatus, including special foundations for the repair, maintenance and servicing of other equipment.

(3) Other Function.

(99) Other-All equipment expenses not properly includable in the above functions.

(c) Functions Related to the Transportation Activity

(1) Administrative Function.

(01) Administration, General-General administration and supervision of central, regional, and divisional operational functions. Included are:

(2) Operations Functions.

(56) Engine Crews-Operation of trains in line-haul revenue service by enginemen, including crew meals, lodging, deadheading and other expenses.

(57) Train Crews-Operation of trains in line-haul revenue service by trainmen, including crew meals, lodging, deadheading, and other expenses.

(58) Dispatching Trains-Costs include dispatchers, supporting staff, train order stations and operators, office and supplies expense.

(59) Operating Switches, Signals, Interlockers, Retarders, Humps-Operators, switch tenders, supplies, etc.

(60) Operating Drawbridges-Engineers, tenders, watchmen, supplies, etc.

(61) Highway Crossing Protection-Gatekeepers, flagmen, lighting, supplies, etc.

(62) Train Inspection and Lubrication-Inspection and lubrication of trains (cars and locomotives), including minor repairs made by inspectors. This includes the inspection of train locomotives when indistinguishable from the inspection and lubrication of train cars.

(63) Clearing Wrecks-Removal of equipment, freight or other goods, and property of others damaged in wrecks; note that repair of wreck damage caused to roadway property and equipment is classified as function Code 48-Road Property and Equipment Damaged.

(64) Switch Crews-Operation of trains and locomotives in yard and terminal revenue switching service by enginemen and trainmen, including associated expenses.

(65) Controlling Operations-Directing the operations of yard and terminal interchange and classification service, including office and supplies expense.

(66) Yard and Terminal Clerical-Clerical work in support of the operation of yard and terminal switching and classification service, including office and supplies expense.

(67) Locomotive Fuel-Cost of locomotive fuel used in all service, including the receipt, storage, and dispensing of the fuel.

(68) Electric Power Purchased/Produced for Motive Power-Purchase cost and cost of producing electric power for use by electrically-powered motive equipment in all service.

(69) Servicing Locomotives-Preparing locomotives for switching service in yards and for train service, including moving locomotives around engine yards. This includes the inspection and lubrication of yard locomotives and may include the inspection and lubrication of train locomotives where distinguishable from the inspection and lubrication of train cars.

(70) Cleaning Car Interiors-Cleaning and preparing car interiors for revenue service, including minor repairs made by car cleaners. This includes payment for cleaning cars due to spoilage of perishable shipments.

(71) Adjusting and Transferring Loads-Transferring, picking up, straightening, and reloading freight in the ordinary course of transportation.

(72) Car Loading Devices and Grain Doors-Servicing car loading devices and placing and removing grain doors.

(73) Pickup & Delivery, Marine Line Haul & Rail Substitute Service-Operation of trucks, floating equipment, and all other specialized equipment providing line haul movement for revenue including TOFC/COFC pick-up and delivery.

(74) Loading & Unloading and Local Marine-All other specialized services in the transportation activity such as TOFC/COFC loading, unloading, and tie down; coal and ore loading and unloading; and other similar functions.

(75) Protective Services-Inspecting, servicing, cleaning, and fueling protective equipment and devices.

(76) Clerical and Accounting Employees-Direct administrative support to the Transportation Activity, including receiving and processing customer orders, requesting cars, preparing waybills, rating shipments, billing customers, collecting customer receivables in the ordinary course of business, billing and recording demurrage, reporting interchanges, reporting advances, and the initial summarization and reporting of input data.

(77) Communications Systems Operation-Cost of operating communications systems; when such operations are an integral part of other functions, only specifically identifiable costs of operating communications systems are to be allocated to this function.

(78) Loss and Damage Claims Processing-Receipt, investigation, other handling, and adjustment and settlement of claims for loss or damage of freight or other goods carried in revenue service. Does not include handling claims for personal injury or for loss or damage of other property.

(3) Other Function.

(99) Other-All transportation expenses not properly includable in the above functions.

(d) Functions Related to the General and Administration Activity

(1) Administrative Function.

(01) Administration, General-General administration and supervision of central, regional, and divisional general functions. Included are:

(2) General Functions.

(86) Accounting, Auditing, Finance-General and corporate accounting, auditing by internal auditors and outside accountants, treasury, tax accounting and returns, financial reporting, corporate planning related to investment decisions and budgeting.

(87) Management Services and Data and Word Processing-Systems planning and design, programming, computer operations, data control, key entry of data, and related activities; This includes operating expenses associated with a particular computer system or word processing equipment that is dedicated to more than one activity. This does not include expenses associated with computer systems or word processing equipment dedicated exclusively to the Way and Structure, Equipment or Transportation Activity; these expenses shall be charged to the appropriate subactivity/function.

(88) Marketing-Market planning and analysis, traffic analysis, costing, pricing, and related activities.

(89) Sales-Traffic solicitation and related sales efforts.

(90) Industrial Development-Efforts to locate industries on real estate accessible to the railroad's lines for the purpose of creating future revenues.

(91) Personnel and Labor Relations-Efforts to attract and retain employees, handle fringe benefit plans, monitor and negotiate labor contracts, maintain employee data and records, coordinate training programs, handle grievances, handle employee transfers, operate job safety and equal opportunity programs, and related activities.

(92) Legal and Secretarial-Legal functions handled by attorneys and supporting staff; including lawsuits, injury and damage claims, commerce matters, and similar functions; corporate secretarial functions involving shareholder records, corporate minutes, stock certificates, and similar items.

(93) Public Relations and Advertising-Public relations activities with governmental bodies, shippers, and the general public; advertising in the media, booklets, publications; open houses and tours; and similar activities.

(94) Research and Development-Research into the use of methods, procedures, practices, equipment, machinery tools, and plant, and in determining and measuring the impact of factors or costs not previously known, with the intention of finding ways to improve maintenance, operations, administration, rates, productivity, environmental impact, and similar items. Does not include specific studies or development efforts for which an implementation decision has already been made.

(3) Other Function.

(99) Other-All general and administration expenses not properly includable in the above functions.

This account is a summarization of Railway Operating Revenue Accounts 101 to 122. It excludes transfers from governmental authorities except when the transfer payment is for specific services for transporting property or persons by rail line other than commuter operations and local rail service subsidies granted under authority of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 [See Instruction 1-15(e)(2)].

This account shall include amounts received or receivable from Federal, state, or municipal authorities which are specifically designated to offset operating expenses, or which may be applied at the discretion of the railroad to operating expenses and/or railroad property.

This account shall also include amounts received from government authorities to offset operating costs sustained on specific lines or in certain regions. Examples are: (1) Local Rail Service Assistance Subsidies granted to the carrier under authority of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976, and (2) payments by regional transit authorities in connection with specified operations performed by the carrier.

This account shall also include indirect receipts which reduce operating expenses, such as assumption of station maintenance costs, abatement of taxes, or other indirect contributions by government agencies, if clearly identifiable and measurable.

This account shall include the amortization applicable to amounts representing the cost of acquisition, addition to, or improvement of depreciable operating property received from Federal, state, or municipal authorities. (See instruction 1-15, and account 783, "Deferred Revenues-Transfers from Government Authorities.")

This account shall include the total revenues derived from property used in other than carrier operations, the cost of which is includible in balance-sheet account 737, "Property used in other than carrier operations."

(a) This account shall include such rents of property owned and controlled by the accounting carrier as are not provided for in the foregoing accounts.

(b) This account shall be charged with the cost of maintenance of the property rented, also specific incidental expenses in connection with such property, such as the cost of negotiating contracts, advertising for tenants, fees paid conveyancers, collectors' commissions, and analogous items.

(a) This account shall include amounts earned under the terms of agreements or contracts whereby the net income resulting from the operation by others or properties of other companies having a separate corporate existence is to be paid, in whole or in part, to the accounting company.

(b) In determining the amount earned by the accounting company, consideration shall be given not only to the operating revenues and operating expenses but also to other items of income or deduction which affect that amount.

(a) This account shall include dividends declared on railway and other stocks, the income from which is the property of the accounting company, whether such stocks are owned by the accounting company and held in its treasury or deposited in trust, or are controlled through lease or otherwise.

(b) Dividends declared shall not be credited prior to actual collection unless their payment is reasonably assured by past experience, guaranty, anticipated provision, or otherwise. (See note C to account 708, "Interest and dividends receivable.")

(c) Accruals of guaranteed dividends may be included in this account if their payment is reasonably assured.

(a) This account shall include the interest on securities and debenture stock of other companies, the income from which is the property of the accounting company whether such securities are owned by the accounting company and held in its treasury or deposited in trust, or are controlled through lease or otherwise.

(b) The account shall also include interest on notes and other evidences of indebtedness and interest on bank balances, open accounts, and other analogous items, including discount or short-term notes. Interest shall not be accrued unless its payment is reasonably assured by past experience, guaranty, anticipated provision, or otherwise. (See note C to account 708, "Interest and dividends receivable.")

(c) At the option of the accounting company there may be included each year in this account the portion, applicable to the fiscal period, of the amount requisite to extinguish, during the interval between the date of acquisition and the date of maturity, the discount or premium on securities of other companies owned (other than short-term notes). Amounts thus credited or charged shall be concurrently charged or credited to the account in which the cost of the securities is carried. The discount on short-term notes shall be distributed through equal monthly credits, over the terms of the notes.

(a) This account shall include the income on cash, securities, and other assets (not including securities issued or assumed by the accounting company) held in sinking and other funds. (See note C to account 708, "Interest and dividends receivable.")

(b) At the option of the accounting company there may be included each year in this account the portion, applicable to the fiscal period, of the amount requisite to extinguish, during the interval between the date of acquisition and the date of maturity, the discount or premium on funded securities held in sinking or other funds. Amounts thus credited or charged shall be concurrently charged or credited to the account in which the cost of the securities is carried.

This account shall include, during each fiscal year, such proportion of the premiums on outstanding funded debt as may be applicable to the period. (See instruction 5-3.)

(a) This account shall include amounts received or receivable from other companies or individuals, representing the whole or a part of the net loss of the accounting company, when under the terms of agreements or contract, no obligation for subsequent reimbursement is incurred.

(b) In determining the amount receivable by the accounting company, consideration shall be given not only to the operating revenues and operating expenses, but also to other items of income or deduction which affect that amount.

(a) This account shall include all items, not provided for elsewhere, properly creditable to income accounts during the current year. Among the items which shall be included in this account are:

(b) Gains from extinguishment of debt shall be aggregated and, if material, credited to account 570, "Extraordinary Items," upon approval by the Board; however, gains from extinguishment of debt (excluding debt maturing serially) which is made to satisfy sinking fund requirements, shall be recorded in this account regardless of amount.

This account shall include total expenses caused by operations, as shown in the primary expense accounts provided in these regulations.

This account shall include depreciation, rent, taxes, and other expenses incurred on property used in other than carrier operations.

This account shall include all accruals for taxes not provided for elsewhere, such as taxes on securities owned, and taxes on income from securities owned.

(a) This account shall include amounts payable under the terms of agreements or contracts whereby the net loss resulting from the operation by others of properties of other companies having a separate corporate existence is to be paid, in whole or in part, by the accounting company.

(b) In determining the amount payable by the accounting company, consideration shall be given not only to the operating revenues and operating expenses, but also to other items of income or deductions which affect that amount.

This account shall include the current accruals of interest on all classes of long-term debt, the principal of which is includable in accounts 765, Funded debt unmatured; 766, Equipment obligations; 767, Receivers' and trustees' securities; 768, Debt in default; and 769, Accounts Payable; affiliated companies.

This account shall include interest accrued on unfunded debt, such as short-term notes payable on demand or having maturity dates of one year or less from dates of issue, and open accounts, including discount and expense on demand and short-term loans, interest on receipts outstanding for installments paid on capital stock, interest on deferred payments for public improvements, interest on tax deficiencies, overcharge claims and court awards, and other analogous items. The discount on short-term notes, if of a considerable amount shall be distributed through equal monthly charges, over the term of the notes.

(a) This account shall be charged during each fiscal period with the proportion of the discount on funded debt obligations applicable to that period. This proportion shall be determined according to a rule the uniform application of which through the interval between the date of sale and the date of maturity will extinguish the discount on funded debt.

(b) The charge to this account for any period must not be either greater or less than the proportion of the balance remaining unamortized applicable to that period so long as any portion of the discount remains unextinguished. However, the entire amount for the discount and expense applicable to any particular issue of obligations may be charged directly to this account at time of issue when the aggregate of such amounts does not appreciably affect the accounts. (See instruction 5-3(b).)

This account shall include the directly assignable administration expenses of the accounting company which are incident to its investments in leased or nonoperating physical property, and in stocks, bonds, or other securities.

(a) This account shall include the whole or any portion of the income of the accounting company payable to another company under the terms of agreements or contracts without obligation for reimbursement.

(b) In determining the amount payable by the accounting company, consideration shall be given not only to operating revenues and operating expenses, but also to other items of income or deduction which affect that amount.

(a) This account shall include items, not otherwise provided for in the other income accounts. This includes:

Contributions for charitable, social, or community welfare purposes that do not have a direct relation to the protection of company property, development of its business, or welfare of its employees.

(b) Losses from extinguishment of debt shall be aggregated and, if material, charged to account 570, "Extraordinary Items (net)," upon approval by the Board; however, losses from extinguishment of debt (excluding debt maturing serially) which is made to satisfy sinking fund requirements, shall be included in this account regardless of amount.

(c) Contributions for charitable, social, or community welfare purposes that have a direct relation to the protection of company property, development of its business, or welfare of its employees should be charged to account 61-61-99, Other Expenses-General and Administrative-Other.

This account shall include losses on receivable, notes, or claims that are not includible in account 63-61-00. "General-Uncollectible Accounts-General and Administrative."

This account shall include material items unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence, but not both, accounted for in the current year in accordance with the text of instruction 1-2(d), upon approval by the Board.

This account shall include accruals for Federal, State and other income taxes applicable to ordinary income. See the text of account 590, for recording other income tax consequences.

(a) This account shall include the net tax effect of all material timing differences [See definition 17(e)] originating and reversing in the current accounting period and the future tax benefits of loss carryforwards recognized in accordance with Instruction 1-10.

(b) This account shall include credits for the amortization of the investment tax credit if the carrier elected to use the deferred method of accounting for the investment tax credit. (See instruction 1-10.)

This account shall include the results of operations of a segment of a business (see definition 32(a)), after giving effect to income tax consequences, that has been or will be discontinued in accordance with the text of instruction 1-2(d), upon approval by the Board.

This account shall include the gain or loss from the disposal of a segment of a business, after giving effect to income tax consequences, in accordance with the text of instruction 1-2(d), upon approval by the Board.

(a) This account shall include extraordinary items accounted for during the current accounting year in accordance with the text of instruction 1-2(d), upon submission of a letter from the carrier's independent accountants, approving or otherwise commenting on the item and upon approval by the Board.

(b) This account shall be maintained in a manner sufficient to identify the nature and gross amount of each debit and credit.

(c) Income tax consequences of charges and credits to this account shall be recorded in account 590, "Income taxes on extraordinary items," or account 591, "Provision for deferred taxes-extraordinary items."

This account shall include the estimated income tax consequences (debit or credit) assignable to the aggregate of items of both taxable income and deductions from taxable income which for accounting purposes are classified as unusual and infrequent, and are recorded in account 570, "Extraordinary Items (Net)." The tax effect of any timing differences caused by recognizing an item in the account provided for extraordinary items in different periods in determining accounting income and taxable income shall be included in account 591, "Provision for deferred taxes-extraordinary items."

This account shall include debits or credits for the current accounting period for income taxes deferred currently, or for amortization of income taxes deferred in prior accounting periods applicable to items of revenue or expense included in account 570, "Extraordinary Items (Net)." (See instruction 1-10.)

This account shall include the cumulative effect of changing to a new accounting principle, after giving effect of income tax consequences, in accordance with instruction 1-2(d), upon approval by the Board.

This account shall include the net credit balance in the retained earnings account at the beginning of the calendar year.

This account shall include adjustments net of assigned income taxes, in accordance with the text of instruction 1-2(d), to the balance in the retained earnings account at the beginning of the calendar year, upon approval by the Board.

This account shall show the net credit balance brought forward from the income account for the calendar year.

This account is provided to return to unappropriated retained earnings the amount of appropriations no longer required. The account shall be subdivided to show the nature of the appropriations being released and the circumstances of the release shall be fully described.

This account shall include other credit adjustments, net of assigned income taxes, not provided for elsewhere in this system but only after such inclusion has been authorized by the Board.

This account shall include the net debit balance in the retained earnings account at the beginning of the calendar year.

This account shall show the net debit balance brought forward from the income account for the calendar year.

(a) This account shall include losses from resale of reacquired capital stock, and charges which reduce or write-off discount on capital stock issued by the company, but only to the extent that such charges exceed credit balances in account 795, "Other capital," applicable to net gains from reacquisition and resale or retirement of such subclass of capital stock. See instruction 5-4.

(b) This account shall also include other debit adjustments, net of assigned income taxes, not provided for elsewhere in this system but only after such inclusion has been authorized by the Board.

This account shall be charged and account 797, "Retained earnings; Appropriated," shall be credited with amounts appropriated pursuant to provisions of reorganization plans, mortgages, deeds of trust, or other contracts requiring payments into sinking funds, capital funds, and other funds.

This account shall be charged and account 797, "Retained earnings; Appropriated," shall be credited with the amount of appropriations for general contingencies, indefinite possible future losses and other corporate purposes not provided for elsewhere. The appropriations shall be released when their respective purposes have been served.

This account shall be charged with the amount of dividends declared on actually outstanding capital stock issued or assumed by the company. If the dividend is not payable in cash, the securities or other property to be distribruted shall be described with sufficient particularity to identify the distribution. This account shall be subdivided to show separately the dividends declared on the various subclasses of capital stock.

(a) This account shall include money, checks, sight drafts, and sight bills of exchange in the hands of the accounting company's financial officers and agents, or in transit from its agents and conductors for which such agents and conductors have received credit. It shall include, also, deposits with banks and trust companies available for use on demand, and savings accounts subject to the usual clause reserving the right to defer payment for a specified number of days.

(b) The amount of checks and drafts, which have been transmitted to payees and which remain unpaid at the close of the accounting period, shall be credited to this account. When the amount of such checks and drafts cannot be determined with absolute accuracy, an estimate of the amount shall be used. Amounts not transmitted to payees shall be included in the appropriate liability accounts.

This account shall include the cost of securities and other obligations acquired for the purpose of temporarily investing cash, such as United States Treasury certificates, marketable securities, time drafts receivable, demand loans, time loans, time deposits with banks and trust companies, and other similar investments of a temporary character, which are readily convertible into cash at substantially their recorded cost. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments.

This account shall be subdivided to reflect the marketable equity securities portion (and its corresponding valuation allowance) and other temporary investments. (See instruction 5-2.)

This account shall include cash deposits, either placed in the hands of trustees or under the direct control of the reporting company, which are restricted for specific purposes. Examples are those deposits made for the payment of dividends and interest due within one year, the liquidation of other current liabilities, to guarantee fulfillment of current contract obligations to meet specific operating requirements, or compensating balances (See definition 10) under an agreement which legally restricts the use of such funds, and which constitute support for short-term borrowing arrangements. Subaccounts may be set up, if necessary, to account for special deposits for specific purposes.

This account shall include the book value of all collectible obligations in the form of demand or time loans and notes receivable, or other similar evidences (except interest coupons) of money receivable within a time not exceeding one year from date of issue.

This account shall include the net debit balances receivable from other companies representing items such as interline freight, passenger, switching, and baggage revenues, charges for equipment interchanged on a per diem or mileage basis, and charges, for car repairs, loss and damage freight claims, and overcharge claims.

This account shall include amounts currently due from customers for transportation and other charges incidental to transportation, and from agents and other representatives charged with the collection or custody of current revenues.

This account shall include amounts due in audited accounts, such as those due from the United States or other Governments for the transportation of mails and Government property, and from express companies for express facilities furnished under contract; miscellaneous bills against other railway companies, corporations, firms, and individuals; and other similar items.

This account shall include the amount of interest accrued to the date of the balance sheet on bonds, mortgages, notes, and other commercial paper owned, on loans made, open accounts, bank deposits, and the amount of dividends declared on stocks owned, and dividends accrued on such stocks when contracts require that the dividends be paid at stated times.

This account shall include amounts due from affiliated companies which are subject to current settlement such as deposits, demand or time loans, notes receivable, interest, dividends, miscellaneous bills and similar items.

This account shall include estimates of all unaudited current items receivable by the carrier to the date of the balance sheet, including those which are creditable to revenue, expense, or income accounts. Among the items which shall be included in this account are:

This account shall be credited with amounts provided for receivables which may become uncollectible, and shall be maintained to show the amount of each separate allowance set out below and the amounts of debits and credits thereto:

(a) Allowance for receivables applicable to transportation operations. Credits to this subdivision shall be concurrently charged to account 63-60-00, "Uncollectible Accounts; General and administrative."

(b) Allowances for receivables not applicable to transportation operations. Credits to this subdivision shall be concurrently charged to account 553, "Uncollectible accounts."

This account shall include amounts advanced to general and special agents, and to other officers and employees, as working funds from which certain expenditures are to be made and accounted for. It also includes advances to fast freight lines and to demurrage and other bureaus.

This account shall include the balances in the accounts representing short-term prepaid rents chargeable to the appropriate rent accounts as the term is consumed for which the rents are paid; also short-term interest, and insurance premiums, taxes and licenses, and similar items paid in advance of their accrual, which are to be apportioned and charged, as they accrue, to the appropriate accounts.

(a) This account shall include the balances representing the cost of all unapplied material, such as road and shop material, articles in process of manufacture by the accounting company, fuel, stationery, and dining car and other supplies. In determining the cost of material and supplies suitable allowance shall be made for any purchase discounts allowed. The cost shall include all specifically assignable transportation charges incurred in obtaining the delivery of such materials and supplies upon the premises of the carrier including loading and unloading, and a suitable proportion of purchasing and store expenses. The cost shall also include sales and excise taxes on material purchases; however, sales and excise taxes may be charged to account 65-60-00, "Other taxes; General and administrative," provided this procedure will not adversely affect the accounts and is consistently followed. Taxes on gasoline, other motor fuel, and motor oil are also includible in this account.
