
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Joint control

is that which rests in two or more corporations and which is held under a joint arrangement.

(a) This account shall be credited with amounts charged to account 551, "Miscellaneous income charges," to provide for impairment in the value of investment securities and other assets included in account 721, "Investments and advances; affiliated companies."

(b) If provision is made for anticipated losses in specific assets, when the assets are written down or written off, or are sold or otherwise disposed of at a loss, the reduction in the book value or the losses sustained shall be charged to this account to the extent of the credit balance in the account applicable to the particular items involved, and the remainder, if any, shall be charged to account 551, "Miscellaneous income charges." Where a general provision for losses in unspecified asset values is maintained, all such losses resulting from write-downs, write-offs, etc., shall be charged to this account to the extent of the total credit balance in the account, and the remainder, if any, shall be charged to account 551, "Miscellaneous income charges."

(a) This account shall include the ledger value of the accounting company's investment in securities issued or assumed by nonaffliated companies other than securities held in special deposits or special funds; and also investment advances made to nonaffiliated companies not subject to current settlement; notes receivable from nonaffiliated companies which mature later than 1 year from date of the balance sheet; and similar noncurrent items of nonaffiliated companies. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. Include also the offsetting entry to the recording of amortization of discount or premium on interest bearing investments.

(b) This account shall be maintained in such manner as to show each of the following classes of investment in each nonaffiliated company:

(1) Stocks.

(2) Bonds.

(3) Other secured obligations.

(4) Unsecured notes.

(5) Investment advances.

(c) A complete record of securities pledged shall be maintained to show separately the ledger value of securities pledged and unpledged in the annual report to the Board.

(a) This account shall be credited with amounts charged to account 551, "Miscellaneous income charges," to provide for impairment in the value of investment securities and other assets included in account 722, "Other investments and advances."

(b) If provision is made for anticipated losses in specific assets, when the assets are written down or written off, or are sold or otherwise disposed of at a loss, the reduction in the book value or the losses sustained shall be charged to this account to the extent of the credit balance in the account applicable to the particular items involved, and the remainder, if any, shall be charged to account 551. "Miscellaneous income charges." Where a general provision for losses in unspecified asset values is maintained, all such losses resulting from write-down, write-offs, etc., shall be charged to this account to the extent of the total credit balance in the account, and the remainder, if any shall be charged to account 551, "Miscellaneous income charges."

This account shall include the accounting company's investment in road and equipment (including that held under contract for purchase), used or held for use as transportation property in existence at the date of the balance sheet. When property is retired from service, this account shall be credited with the ledger value of the property retired.

(a) This account shall include the cost of improvements made by the lessee to property which is held under lease from others or through control of the company owning the property, where such improvements are used by the lessee in transportation service, and the lessee is not to be reimbursed by the lessor for such improvements. (See instruction 2-18.)

(b) The carrier's records shall be kept in such manner as to show the debits and credits to this account in accordance with the provisions for road and equipment.

(a) This account shall be credited with amounts concurrently charged to operating expenses or other authorized accounts for depreciation accrued on improvements to leased property, the cost of which is included in account 732, "Improvements on leased property."

(b) The service value of each unit of property retired (and also of each minor item, less than a unit, retired and not replaced) for which this accumulated depreciation account has been established shall be charged to this account.

(c) Instructions for depreciation accounts, rates of depreciation, and records to be maintained, as contained in instruction 4 for owned property, shall also apply to improvements on leased property.

This account shall include the amounts of accumulated past provisions for amortization of improvements to leased property applicable to defense projects, the cost of which is included in account 732, "Improvements on leased property." This account shall be charged with the amount of the credit balance applicable to specific property at the time the property is retired. The accounting company shall maintain separate subaccounts for amortization of (1) road property and (2) equipment.

(a) This account shall be credited with amounts concurrently charged to operating expenses or other authorized accounts to cover the loss in service value of depreciable road and equipment property. It shall also include adjustments which the Board may authorize the accounting company to make such as adjustments for past accruals of depreciation, and provision for material abandonment or other losses applicable to nondepreciable property.

(b) The service value of each unit of depreciable property retired (and also of each minor item, less than a unit, retired and not replaced) shall be charged to this account. This account shall also be charged for amounts for losses applicable to nondepreciable property retired for which provision was previously made by approval of the Board, and any resultant adjustment of such provision shall be referred to the Board for consideration and decision.

(c) Comprehensive instructions pertaining to depreciation accounts, rates of depreciation, and records to be maintained, are contained in instruction 4.

This account shall include the amount of accumulated past provisions for amortization of road and equipment defense projects, the cost of which is included in account 731, "Road and equipment property." This account shall be charged with the amount of the credit balance applicable to specific property at the time the property is retired. The accounting company shall maintain separate subaccounts for amortization of (1) road property and (2) equipment.

This account shall include the accounting company's investment in property other than property assignable to accounts 731, "Road and equipment property," and 732, "Improvements on leased property," such as hotels, restaurants, powerplants, which are not operated by the accounting company or another carrier in connection with its transportation service.

This account shall be credited with amounts charged to income or other authorized accounts for depreciation accrued on property, the cost of which is included in account 737, "Property used in other than carrier operations." When such property is destroyed, sold, or otherwise retired from service, this account shall be charged with the amount of the credit balance applicable to the property retired.

This account shall include all fees paid to governments for the privilege of incorporation, and office and other expenditures incident to organizing the corporation and putting it in readiness to do business; cost of preparing and distributing prospectuses; special counsel fees; cost of preparing and issuing certificates of stock; cost of procuring the necessary certificates from State authorities; and other like costs necessary and proper in organizing the enterprise.

This account shall include the estimated value of salvage recoverable from property retired when the recovery of the salvage is deferred for any reason. (See instruction 2-5 and 2-7.) This account shall also include the estimated realizable amount for other assets of doubtful value, collection of which within one year is not assured; also other deferred assets and miscellaneous assets not otherwise provided for in general balance sheet accounts. (See instruction 5-1.)

(a) This account shall include the amount of debit balances in suspense accounts that cannot be cleared and disposed of until additional information is received, such as frieght claims paid when found to be correct, but in advance of investigation with other carriers; unextinguished discount on short-term notes; unadjusted debit items not otherwise provided for and similar items the proper disposition of which is uncertain

(b) This account shall also include the aggregate amount of the expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of each class of the carrier's outstanding long-term or equipment obligations, such as fees for listing long-term obligations on stock exchanges, legal and other fees, cost of tax stamps and similar items. (See account 14.) Separate subdivisions shall be maintained for each issue of such obligations. (See instruction 5-3.)

This account shall include the amount of deferred noncurrent income tax debits and credits determined in accordance with Instruction 1-10 when the balance is a net debit. A net credit balance shall be included in account 786, "Accumulated deferred income tax credits".

(a) This account shall include the balances representing obligations outstanding in the form of loans and notes payable or other similar evidence (except interest coupons) of indebtedness payable on demand or within a time not exceeding one year from date of issue.

(b) This account shall be kept in such form so as to show separately the amounts of notes payable within one year from date of issue that are secured by collateral.

This account shall include the net credit balances payable to other companies representing items such as interline freight, passenger, switching and baggage revenues, charges for equipment interchanged on a per diem or mileage basis, and charges for car repairs, loss and damage freight claims, and overcharge claims.

This account shall include the amount of audited vouchers or accounts and audited payrolls unpaid on the date of the balance sheet. It shall include balances representing unclaimed wages and outstanding pay and time or discharge checks issued in payment of wages and all other unpaid vouchered items.

This account shall include outstanding drafts drawn by station agents, conductors' refund and extra-fare checks not presented for redemption, taxes collected from employees and others for the account of taxing agencies, and other items of the nature of demand liabilities not covered by accounts 751, 752, 753, 755, 756, and 757.

This account shall include the amount of matured and unpaid interest on funded debt, and other obligations of the accounting company for which provision has been made for current settlement. This account shall also include the amount of interest subject to current settlement accrued to the date of the balance sheet, but payable after that date, on obligations of the accounting company.

This account shall include the amount of dividends payable on capital stock but unpaid, at the date of the balance sheet.

This account shall include amounts payable to affiliated companies which are subject to current settlement such as deposits, demand or time loans, notes payable, interest, dividends, miscellaneous bills, and similar items.

This account shall include estimates of unaudited items payable by the carrier to the date of the balance sheet, including those which are chargeable to revenue, expense, or income accounts. Among the items which should be included in this account are:

This account shall be credited with the amount accrued for Federal income taxes which has been concurrently charged to the appropriate income or other authorized accounts. Credits to this account that are based upon estimates shall be adjusted during the year so that this account may show, as nearly as practicable the approximate amount of the carrier's unpaid liability for such taxes. Payments of taxes for which accruals have been made shall be debited to this account.

This account shall be credited with the amounts accrued for state and other income taxes which have been concurrently charged to the appropriate income or other authorized accounts. Credits to this account that are based upon estimates shall be adjusted during the year so that this account may show, as nearly as practicable, the approximate amount of the carrier's unpaid liability for such taxes. Payments of taxes for which accruals have been made shall be debited to this account.

(a) This account shall be credited with the accruals of all taxes, other than income taxes, which have been concurrently charged to the appropriate income or other accounts for taxes. Such accruals may be based upon estimates, provided such estimates shall be adjusted during the year so that this account may show, as nearly as practicable, the approximate amount of the carrier's unpaid liability for such taxes. Payments of taxes for which accruals have been made shall be debited to this account.

(b) The records supporting the entries in this account shall be kept to show separately by classes of taxes the amount of the tax accruals for the current year and adjustments of accruals for prior years.

This account shall include the current portion of deferred income tax charges and credits determined in accordance with Instruction 1-10 when the balance is a net credit. A net debit balance shall be included in account 714, "Deferred income tax debits".

There shall be included in this account the principal amount of unpresented bonds drawn for redemption through the operation of sinking and redemption fund agreements, also the principal amount of unpresented fund debt obligations, and receivers' and trustees' securities which have matured (for which provision has been made for current settlement), and other current liabilities not includible in the foregoing current liability accounts.
