
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Other comprehensive income,

(b) When a carrier designates a derivative instrument asset as a cash-flow hedge, it will record the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument in this account with a concurrent charge to account 799.1,with the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss. The ineffective portion of the cash-flow hedge will be charged to the same income or expense account that would have been used if the hedged item had been disposed of or otherwise settled.

(c) When a carrier designates a derivative instrument as a fair-value hedge, it will record the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument in this account with a concurrent charge to a sub-account of the asset or liability that carries the item being hedged. The ineffective portion of the fair-value hedge will be charged to the same income or expense account that would have been used if the hedged item had been disposed of or otherwise settled.

This account shall include the current portion of deferred income tax debits and credits determined in accordance with Instruction 1-10, when the balance is a net debit. A net credit balance shall be included in account 762, "Deferred income tax credits".

(a) This account shall include the amount of cash, the ledger value of live securities of other companies, and other assets which are held by trustees of sinking and other funds for the purpose of redeeming outstanding obligations, including such assets held in the hands of the accounting company's treasurer when the assets are segregated in a distinct fund.

(b) This account shall include amounts deposited with trustees on account of mortgaged property sold, where the proceeds are held for the redemption of securities; and also the par value (or the amount recorded for no par stock) of live securities issued or assumed by the accounting company and held in such funds. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments. The cash value of life insurance policies on the lives of employees and officers to the extent that the carrier is the beneficiary of such policies shall also be included in this account.

(c) A separate subaccount shall be kept for each fund. The title of each subaccount shall designate the obligation redeemable from the fund.

(a) This account shall include cash and the ledger value of other assets held by trustees or by the accounting company's treasurer when segregated in distinct funds that have been (1) realized from the sale of equipment obligations or other long-term obligations and not yet applied toward the specific purposes for which the obligations were incurred, and (2) set aside in accordance with governmental, mortgage, or contractual requirements in connection with reorganizations or otherwise. This account shall also include funds deposited with trustees to be held until mortgaged property sold is replaced. This account shall also include unrealized holding gains and losses on trading and available-for-sale types of security investments.

(b) An appropriate record shall be maintained for securities issued or assumed by the accounting company and held in the funds, identifying those that are nominally issued or nominally outstanding.

This account shall include the amount of cash and the ledger value of securities of other companies and other assets which are in the hands of trustees or managers of insurance, employees' pension, savings, relief, hospital, and other funds which have been raised and specifically set aside or invested for specific purposes not provided for elsewhere; also the par value (or the amount recorded for no par stock) of securities issued or assumed by the accounting company and held in such funds. A separate subaccount shall be kept for each fund.

(a) This account shall include the ledger value of the accounting company's investment in securities issued or assumed by affiliated companies other than securities held in special deposits or special funds; and also investment advances made to affiliated companies not subject to current settlement; notes receivable from affiliated companies which mature later than 1 year from date of the balance sheet; and similar noncurrent items of affiliated companies.

(b) This account shall be maintained in such manner as to show each of the following classes of investment in each affiliated company:

(1) Stocks.

(2) Bonds.

(3) Other secured obligations.

(4) Unsecured notes.

(5) Investment advances.

(c) A complete record of securities pledged shall be maintained to show separately the ledger value of securities pledged and unpledged in the annual report to the Board.

(a) Right through title to securities issued or assumed to exercise the major part of the voting power in the controlled corporation.

(b) Right through agreement or source other than title to securities, to name the majority of the board of directors, managers, or trustees of the controlled corporation.

(c) Right to foreclose a first lien upon all or a major part in value of the tangible property of the controlled corporation.

(d) Right to secure control because of advances made for construction of the operating property of the controlled corporation.

(e) Right to control only in a specific respect the action of the controlled corporation.
