
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Receipts outstanding for funded debt.

(5)Receipts for payments on account of funded debt. When certificates are issued for such payments, the par value shall be included in the account covering the class of funded debt for which the certificates are issued.

(d) Each of the above classes shall also be divided into subclasses according to differences in mortgage or other lien or security therefor, rate of interest, interest dates, or date of maturity. Parts of any issue agreeing in other characteristics but maturing serially may be treated as of the same subclass.

(e) Records shall be maintained in such manner as to show (1) securities the issuance or assumption of which has been authorized by the Board under provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, and similar securities issued or assumed prior to the effective date of such provisions of the Act, and (2) other obligations of a kind which may legally be issued or assumed without such authorization.

(a) This account shall include the par value of equipment securities and the principal amount of contractual obligations for the purchase of equipment, excluding principal or obligations maturing serially or payable in installments within one year from the close of the accounting period, and including obligations due within one year which are expected to be refinanced on a long-term basis (see account 764, "Equipment obligations and other long-term debt due within one year"); for explanation of long-term refinancing, see note B to account 751, "Loans and notes payable."

(b) The amounts included herein shall be divided as follows:

(1) Principal amount of equipment securities including those maturing serially, issued or assumed by the accounting company or by receivers and trustees, which have been authorized by the Board under provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act and similar securities issued or assumed prior to the effective date of such provisions of the act.

(2) Principal sums of obligations for equipment purchased under conditional or deferred payment contracts, which may be legally entered into or assumed by the accounting company or by receivers and trustees, without authorization by the Board.

(a) Long-term leases which are clearly in substance installment purchases shall be capitalized. The liability under such leases which have been capitalized in fixed asset accounts shall be recorded in this account. (See instruction 2-20.)

(b) This account shall be kept so as to show the liability under each lease obligation.

When receivers or trustees acting under the orders of a court are in possession of the property of the company, and under the order of such court issue or assume evidences of indebtedness (other than equipment securities or obligations) the par value of such evidences shall be credited to this account.

This account shall include amounts transferred from other accounts representing matured funded securities or obligations, receivers' and trustees' securities, equipment obligations and short-term notes, when maturity dates of such obligations have not been extended

This account shall include the par value of nonnegotiable notes issued to affiliated companies; also matured funded debt of affiliated companies held by controlling companies where there is no agreement for an extension as to time of payment and collection of the principal is not enforced; credit balances in open accounts with such companies other than credit balances classable as current liablilities, and interest accrued on notes, matured funded debt of affiliated companies and open accounts included in this account, when such interest is not subject to current settlements. The amounts included herein shall be divided as follows:

(a) Notes, including not only nonnegotiable notes that run longer than a term of one year, but also such notes payable on demand or within one year from the date of issue when it is mutually agreed that the notes shall not be enforced as current assets by the holder.

(b) Par value of matured funded debt of affiliated companies held by controlling companies where there is no agreement for an extension of time and collection is not enforced.

(c) Open accounts not subject to current settlement.

(d) Interest accrued on amounts included in this account when not subject to current settlement.

This account shall include the total of the net debit balances representing the excess of the discount over the premimium in connection with the issuance of each class of the carrier's outstanding long-term or equipment obligations. Separate subdivisions shall be maintained for each issue of such obligations. (See instruction 5-3.)

This account shall include the total of all credit balances representing the excess of the premium over the discount and expenses in connection with the issuance of each class of the carrier's outstanding long-term or equipment obligations. Separate subdivisions shall be maintained for each issue of obligations. (See instruction 5-3.)

(a) This account shall include the credit balances accrued representing the estimated liability of the carrier for amounts provided by charges to operating expenses, including amounts contributed by employees, irrespective of whether carried in special funds or in general funds of the carrier, for pensions, accident and death benefits, savings, relief, hospital, or other provident purposes.

(b) The carrier may use the "full accrual basis" to account for pension costs upon prior approval of the Board. Full accrual basis as used herein means recording in the accounts now and hereafter costs of employees pensions accrued, including credits for past services, upon the basis of actuarial computations, even though the sum has not been funded by payment to the trustees. Applications for such accounting shall show the method of computation, together with the carrier's proposal for recording in the accounts the related income tax credits to be realized in subsequent years.

(c) This account shall be charged when payments are made to retired employees, or disbursements are made for the purposes for which liability was provided.

(d) Separate subaccounts shall be maintained to show the amount provided for each liability and the nature of and amounts of debits and credits to the subaccounts.

(a) This account shall be credited with amounts concurrently charged to operating expenses or other accounts to cover the accrued liability on leased road and equipment when settlement between the accounting carrier and the lessor is not made currently. The amounts recorded shall include unsettled rent, based on depreciation or other factors, and liability for property retired.

(b) This account shall be divided to show the liability to (1) affiliated companies (See definition 4), and (2) others.

(a) This account shall be credited with the amounts charged to operating expense to provide for estimated liabilities for claims for deaths of or injuries to employees and others, and for damages to property not owned or held under lease by the carrier; for claims for loss, destruction, damage, or delays to property entrusted to the carrier for transportation or storage; for revenue over charges, such as those covered by reparation claims; and for similar items. No credits shall be made to this account for amounts recoverable from insurance companies or others.

(b) Separate subaccounts shall be maintained to show the amount provided for each liability and the nature of and amounts of debits and credits to the subaccounts.

(c) If settlements for claims when audited are charged to this account, the balances for each year shall be kept separately until all items have been adjusted and cleared. If the settlements when audited are charged to the appropriate expense accounts, the balance in this account shall be adjusted through the expense accounts so as to reflect the probable liability at the close of each accounting period for claims which have been or may be filed for actuarial occurrences.

(d) Estimates of amounts payable within one year covering liability for claims shall be transferred from this account to account 759, "Accrued accounts payable."

(a) This account shall be credited with the amounts accrued for estimated liabilities or losses provided by charges to operating expense or income accounts which are not provided for in any of the preceding accrued liability accounts.

(b) Separate subaccounts shall be maintained to show the amount provided for each liability and the nature of and amounts of debits and credits to the subaccounts.

(c) Upon accomplishment of the purpose for which each accrued liability was provided in this account, any remaining balance in the applicable subaccount shall be cleared to the appropriate operating expense or other account. Prior Board approval shall be required for clearance of balances in accrued liability subaccounts which were originally established by authority of the Board.

(d) Estimates of amounts payable within one year covering any liability included in this account shall be transferred to account 759, "Accrued accounts payable."

This account shall include the amount of matured and unpaid interest (for which no provision has been made for current settlement) on all indebtedness issued or assumed by the accounting company except interest which is added to the principal of the debt on which incurred. Where interest is in default, subsequent accruals shall be credited to this account.

This account shall include assessments for public improvements; retained amounts due governmental agencies for construction work; percentages due contractors to be paid upon completion of contracts; deposits for construction of side tracks to be refunded on basis of an agreed portion of the earnings from the traffic handled over the tracks and similar liabilities not payable within one year: This account shall also include other deferred and noncurrent liabilities not otherwise provided for in general balance sheet accounts. Assessments for public improvements and amounts due governmental agencies and others for payments to be made within one year, shall be included in account 763, "Other current liabilities," or other appropriate current liability account.

This account shall include amounts representing the cost of acquisition, addition to, or improvement of depreciable operating property received, or receivable from Federal, state, or local authorities. Items to be included in this account shall be determined in accordance with instruction 1-15.

An appropriate record shall be maintained of each asset associated with these transfers showing: (1) Original cost to carrier (or fair value if not purchased), (2) accumulated depreciation, and (3) estimated salvage value, if any.

This account shall be charged periodically, and account 503, "Railway Operating Revenues-Amortization of Deferred Transfers from Government Authorities," shall be credited with amounts equal to the depreciation costs of the assets to which they apply. When such assets are retired or otherwise disposed of, this account shall be charged, and account 503 concurrently credited with any remaining associated amounts. (See instruction 1-15.)

(a) This account shall include the amount of credit balances in suspense accounts that cannot be disposed of until services are performed or additional information is received, such as amounts received from sale of mileage tickets, to be disposed of as mileage is honored; amounts received from sales of excess baggage script, to be disposed of as coupons are honored; interchangeable mileage credential ticket redemption funds, amounts collected from the sale of damaged, unclaimed, and over freight held pending final disposition, unadjusted credit items not otherwise provided for; and similar items, the proper disposition of which is uncertain.

(a) This account shall be credited with the noncurrent portions of deferred income tax debits and credits when the balance is a net credit, as determined by Instruction 1-10. A net debit balance shall be included in account 744, "Accumulated deferred income tax debits".

(b) This account shall be credited with the amount of investment tax credits utilized in the current year for income tax purposes but deferred for accounting purposes (see Instruction 1-10).

(c) This account shall be concurrently debited with amounts credited to account 557, "Provision for deferred taxes," representing amortization of amounts for investment tax credits deferred in prior accounting periods.

(d) This account shall be maintained in such a manner as to show separately:

(1) the unamortized balance of deferred income taxes and deferred investment tax credit separately as of the beginning and as of the end of each year (2) the entries that affected the account balance, and (3) the current year's net credits or charges applicable to timing differences and deferred investment tax credits.

(a) This account shall include the par value of stocks with par value; the stated value of no par stock having a stated value; and the cash value of the consideration received or the amount approved by the Board for no par stocks without stated value for all shares of capital stock or other form of proprietary interest in the accounting company which have been issued to bona fide purchasers and have not been reacquired and canceled, also shares of stock nominally issued.

(b) This account also shall include amounts transferred from retained earnings for no par stock without stated value when approved by the Board.

(c) The amount of the consideration received from the sale of par value stock and no par stock having a stated value in excess of the amount credited to this account shall be credited to account 794, "Premiums and assessments on capital stock."

(d) When capital stock is retired or canceled, this account shall be charged with the amount at which such stock is carried in this account. In the case of no par stock without stated value, the amount to be charged shall be the proportion, applicable to the reacquired shares immediately prior to reacquisition, of the total book liability included herein of actually outstanding shares of the particular class and series of stock of which the reacquired shares are a part.

(e) The amounts included in this account shall be recorded so as to show (1) par value of shares of par value stock; the stated value of shares of no par stock, and the amount paid in or approved by the Board for no par stock without stated value (pledged or unpledged), held in the company's treasury, by its agents or trustees, or otherwise subject to its control, including shares nominally but never actually issued and (2) par value of shares of par value stock, the stated value of shares of no par stock, and the amount paid in or approved by the Board for shares of no par stock without stated value, issued and actually outstanding, being the shares not held by the company, its agents, or trustees, or subject to its control.

(f) The amounts recorded shall be further divided so as to show the amount of each class of stock issued, separated as between par value and no par value stock, as follows:
