
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Receipts outstanding for installments paid.

(4)Receipts for payments on account of subscriptions to capital stock.

(g) When the subscriber has paid his subscription in full and is entitled to receive certificates representing the shares for which he has subscribed, the par value of stocks having par value, the stated value of no par stock, or the agreed purchase price or the price authorized by the Board for no par stock without stated value, as appropriate, shall be included in the division for the class for which the certificates are issued.

(h) Each of the above classes shall also be divided into subclasses according to differences in dividend or interest rights, voting rights, or conditions under which the securities may be retired.

This account shall include the company's liability under agreements to exchange its capital stock for the outstanding securities of companies whose physical property has been acquired under such agreements, but whose securities have not yet been surrendered for exchange. This account shall also include stock dividends declared that remain undistributed at the end of an accounting period.

This account shall include the excess of the par or stated value recorded in account 791, "Capital stock," (at the time of original sale of par value stock and no par stock with a stated value) plus accrued dividends, if any, over the cash value of the consideration received.

(a) This account shall include the excess of the actual cash vlaue of the consideration received (at the time of original sale of par value stock and no par stock with a stated value) over the par or stated value of the stock issued, plus accrued dividends, if any, and subsequent assessments against stockholders representing payments required in excess of par or stated value.

(b) Separate subdivisions shall be maintained for premiums and for assessments on each class and series of stock.

(c) When capital stock is retired and canceled, this account shall be charged with the amount of assessments and premiums originally recorded for the shares of stock retired and canceled.

(a) This account shall include all other capital not classified as retained earnings. It shall include such items as the amount of consent dividends on the accounting company's capital stock; capital arising from donations by stockholders of capital stock of the company or other contribution to capital; amounts representing reduction of the par or recorded value of the accounting company's capital stock, including reductions arising in merger of a railroad and pooling of interest (see instruction 2-15(d)); capital from reorganization of the company (see instruction 2-16); and amounts of forfeited subscriptions to the accounting company's capital stock. This account shall also include gains from the acquisition, retirement, or resale of reacquired shares of the accounting company's capital stock; and forgiveness by stockholders as a contribution to capital of long-term debt owed to them.

(b) This account shall be charged with amounts included herein when capitalized by stock dividends or otherwise with the approval of the Board, and losses from retirement or resale of reacquired shares up to an amount not in excess of credits included herein applicable to the reacquired shares; and may be charged with the amortization of discount on capital stock to the extent of credits herein for such stock.

(c) This account shall be subdivided to show each source of other capital.

(d) This account shall be subdivided to show the cumulative amounts representing the cost of nondepreciable operating property received from government authorities, in accordance with the provisions of instruction 1-15.

(e) This account shall also be subdivided to show the cumulative amounts representing the cost of depreciable and nondepreciable operating property received by Amtrak or Conrail from the Federal Government. (See instruction 1-15.)

This account shall include the accumulated amount of retained earnings which has been appropriated and set aside according to provisions of mortgages, deeds of trust, reorganization plans, or other agreements requiring payments into capital funds, sinking funds, or other funds; and also appropriations for general contingencies, possible future losses (not in the category of liabilities actually incurred), and other corporate purposes. This account shall be subdivided by classes of appropriations showing the purpose for which each appropriation is made.

(a) This account shall include the net balance (debit or credit) of the amounts included in accounts 601 to 623, inclusive. It shall not include transfers either to or from account 795, "Other capital," unless authorized upon application to the Board.

(b) Any balance representing retained earnings not segregated at the date of the balance sheet shall be included in a subdivision of this account.

(c) The balance of accounts 601 to 623, inclusive, shall be closed into this account at the end of each calendar year.

(a) This account shall include in subdivisions for each class the reacquisition cost of capital stock which has been actually issued or assumed by the carrier, then reacquired, and is neither retired nor canceled, nor properly includable in sinking or other funds.

(b) This account shall be maintained to reflect separately securities pledged and unpledged.

(c) This account shall be shown on the balance sheet as a deduction in arriving at stockholders' equity.

(a) This account shall include revenues, expenses, gains, and losses that are properly includable in Other Comprehensive Income during the period. Examples of items of Other Comprehensive Income include foreign currency items, minimum pension liability adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on certain investments in debt and equity securities, and cash-flow hedges. Records supporting the entries to this account shall be maintained so that the carrier can furnish the amount of Other Comprehensive Income for each item included in this account.

(b) This account shall also be debited or credited, as appropriate, with amounts of accumulated Other Comprehensive Income that have been included in the determination of net income during the period and in accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in prior periods. Separate records for each category of items will be maintained to identify the amount of the reclassification adjustments from accumulated Other Comprehensive Income to earnings made during the period.

This section defines each account outlined in the format shown under section 940 of these regulations.
