
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 79 - MEDALS OF HONOR
#### ยง 79.3 Application.

(a) Any person may apply for the award of the medal described in ยง 79.1, but only on behalf of another person, by writing to the Secretary of Transportation, Attention: Medals of Honor, within two (2) years of the action that is the subject of the application.

(b) Although no application form is required, the following information must be provided:

(1) Name, address, and telephone number of the person submitting the application.

(2) Name, address, and telephone number of the person on whose behalf the application is submitted.

(3) Date, time, place, and weather conditions of the action that is the subject of the application.

(4) Identification of rail or motor carrier involved, or of operator of motor vehicles involved.

(5) Identification of any public or private authority that investigated the accident/incident involved.

(6) Name, address, and telephone number of any witness to the action that is the subject of the application.

(7) Detailed description of the action that is the subject of the application, including why the person submitting the application thinks that the action merits the extraordinary recognition embodied in the Medal of Honor.

(c) An application and any documentary or other evidence supporting it must be supported by oath or affirmation, or by the signer's acknowledgment that a knowingly false statement is punishable as perjury.
