
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Subpart A - Uniform System of Accounts
####### List of Instructions and Accounts
######## Lines for which data collection is required.

(a)The railroad shall collect data on all branch lines which meet the criteria listed in paragraphs 1 through 4 below. The data to be collected are specified in section 920(b).

(1) Branch lines in categories (1), (2), and (3) on the System Diagram Map include, respectively, lines for which a carrier intends to file an abandonment application within three years, lines which the carrier has under study and are potentially subject to abandonment, and lines for which an abandonment application is pending before the Board. The collection of data on such lines shall commence on the first day of the month after the line has been designated in one of the categories and will continue so long as the branch line is retained in one of these categories. The assignment and apportionment methodology set forth in Part 1152, Subchapter B (National Subsidy Standards), shall be applied.

(2) For branch lines operated under an order directing service, under section 304(d)(3) of the 3R Act, data shall be collected from the effective date of the order until the order is withdrawn.

(3) For branch lines operated under a rail service continuation agreement under section 1a(6)(a) of the IC Act, data shall be collected from the effective date of the agreement until the termination of the agreement. The assignment and apportionment methodology set forth in Part 1152, Subchapter B (National Subsidy Standards), shall be applied.

(4) For branch lines operated under a rail service continuation agreement under section 304 of the 3R Act, data collection shall commence on the effective date of the agreement and shall continue until the termination date of the agreement.
