
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1201 - RAILROAD COMPANIES
###### Subpart A - Uniform System of Accounts
####### List of Instructions and Accounts
######## XX,,11-21-XX,11,21,11-21-XX,XX-31-67,31,67

when used in place of digits in a six-digit account number, means that all accounts containing the remaining four-digits are included. Example:refers to all salary and wage accounts for locomotives becausedesignates salaries and wages anddesignates locomotives. Thus,includes all of the following accounts: 11-21-01; 11-21-40; 11-21-48; 11-21-39; and 11-21-99. Similarly,means all accounts containing(train operations) and(locomotive fuel).

Section 205(e)(1)(A) of the 3R Act directs the office to issue regulations which will permit the collection and publication by the Consolidated Rail Corp. (ConRail), or by profitable railroads of information necessary to determine accurately the revenues attributable, avoidable costs, and service units of light-density lines scheduled for abandonment. This accurate information is intended to facilitate the determination of the revenues and avoidable costs in abandonment proceedings and in potential offers of subsidy. This information is intended to be compatible with the Regional Subsidy Standards, for those lines which were not conveyed to ConRail under the final system plan and with the National Subsidy Standards (49 CFR Part 1152, Subpart D), for all other lines. The purpose of the Branch Line Accounting System regulations is to specify an accounting system for the collection and publication of this information.
