
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1244 - WAYBILL ANALYSIS OF TRANSPORTATION OF PROPERTY - RAILROADS
###### ยง 1244.2 Applicability.
####### subject railroad.

(a) Effective July 1, 1981 and thereafter, unless otherwise ordered, each railroad as defined in ยง 1244.1 above is required to file waybill sample information for all line-haul revenue waybills terminated on its lines if it terminates at least 4,500 revenue carloads in any of the three preceding years, or if it terminates at least 5% of the revenue carloads terminating in any state in any of the three preceding years. A railroad required to file waybill sample information under this section shall herein be referred to as

(b) Waybill terminations shall include all line-haul revenue movements terminating for waybilling purposes on the subject railroad's line whether the lading is destined for the terminating station as denoted on the waybill or the shipment is being rebilled or forwarded to the ultimate destination by another railroad or another mode of transportation (e.g., lake cargo, inbound transit, or other rebilled movements).

(c) Each subject railroad shall also file the required waybill sample information for all of its railroad subsidiaries.

(d) Each subject railroad shall also file the required waybill sample information for any other railroad for which it performs revenue billing and/or interline settlements under special agreement.

(e) The surviving corporate entity of railroads (subject to the Interstate Commerce Act) who have merged or reorganized shall be required to report waybill sample information if its predecessor railroad or any of its predecessor railroads were required to report under this section.

(f) In order to determine the number of carloads terminated in each state, railroads not otherwise submitting waybill information must report annually the number of carloads terminated by state for the last calendar year. These reports shall be submitted by March 1 of the year following the report year.
