
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1244 - WAYBILL ANALYSIS OF TRANSPORTATION OF PROPERTY - RAILROADS
###### ยง 1244.3 Reporting contract shipment waybills and Canadian and Mexican international waybills.

(a) All railroads shall identify (flag) contract shipment waybills.

(b) The revenue associated with contract shipments may be encrypted (masked) to safeguard the confidentiality of the contract rates.

(1) Upon written request, the Board will provide a masking procedure for a railroad's use or will mask the contract revenues when the Waybill Sample is filed with the Board.

(2) When a railroad intends to use its own proprietary masking procedure, those procedures, and any changes in those procedures, must be approved by the Board thirty (30) days prior to their use.

(3) All railroads that use a proprietary masking procedure, and intend to continue to use the same procedure, must certify, by letter to the Board, prior to January 31 each year, that the contract revenue masking procedures are unchanged.

(4) All correspondence and certifications concerning masking procedures should be addressed to: Director, Office of Economics, Surface Transportation Board, Washington, DC ATTN: WAYBILL COORDINATOR.

(c) Railroads moving traffic on the U.S. rail system to the Canadian or Mexican border shall include a representative sample of such international export traffic in the Waybill Sample.

(d) Railroads shall identify (flag) such movements as international traffic in the waybill records.

(e) Railroads may report information on the complete rail routing or report only information related to the U.S. portion of the movement.

(f) Railroads may mask revenue divisions associated with cross-border traffic following the masking procedures set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
