
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1244 - WAYBILL ANALYSIS OF TRANSPORTATION OF PROPERTY - RAILROADS
###### ยง 1244.9 Procedures for the release of waybill data.
####### Transportation practitioners, consulting firms, and law firms-specific proceedings.

(4)Transportation practitioners, consulting firms, and law firms may use data from the STB Waybill Sample in preparing verified statements to be submitted in formal proceedings before the STB and/or State Boards (Board), or in preparing documents to be submitted in arbitration matters under part 1108, subpart B, of this chapter, subject to the following requirements:

(i) The STB Waybill Sample is the only single source of the data or obtaining the data from other sources is burdensome or costly, and the data is relevant to issues in a pending formal proceeding before the Board or in arbitration matters under part 1108, subpart B, of this chapter (when seeking data beyond the automatic waybill data release under ยง 1108.27(g) of this chapter).

(ii) The requestor submits to the STB a written waybill request that complies with paragraph (e) of this section or is part of the automatic waybill data release under ยง 1108.27(g) of this chapter for use in arbitrations pursuant to part 1108, subpart B, of this chapter.

(iii) All waybill data must be returned to the STB, and the practitioner or firm must not keep any copies.

(iv) A transportation practitioner, consulting firm, or law firm must submit any evidence drawn from the STB Waybill Sample only to the Board or to an arbitration panel impaneled under part 1108, subpart B, of this chapter, unless the evidence is aggregated to the level of at least three shippers and will prevent the identification of an individual railroad. Nonaggregated evidence submitted to the Board will be made part of the public record only if the Board finds that it does not reveal competitively sensitive data. However, evidence found to be sensitive may be provided to counsel or other independent representatives for other parties subject to the usual and customary protective order issued by the Board or appropriate authorized official.

(v) When waybill data is provided for use in a formal Board proceeding, a practitioner or firm must sign a confidentiality agreement with the STB agreeing to the restrictions specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section before any data will be released. This agreement will govern access and use of the released data for a period of one year from the date the agreement is signed by the user. If the data is required for an additional period of time because a proceeding is still pending before the Board or a court, the practitioner or firm must sign a new confidentiality agreement covering the data needed for each additional year the proceeding is opened.

(vi) When waybill data is provided for use in arbitrations pursuant to part 1108, subpart B, of this chapter, the transportation practitioners, consulting firms, or law firms representing parties to the arbitration and each arbitrator must sign a confidentiality agreement with the STB agreeing to the restrictions specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section before any data will be released. The agreement with practitioners and firms will govern access and use of the released data for a period of one year from the date the agreement is signed by the user. If the data is required for an additional period of time because an arbitration or appeal of an arbitration is still pending before the Board or a court, the practitioner or firm must sign a new confidentiality agreement covering the data needed for each additional year the arbitration or appeal is pending. The agreement with each arbitrator will allow that arbitrator to review any evidence that includes confidential waybill data in a particular arbitration matter.
