
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1244 - WAYBILL ANALYSIS OF TRANSPORTATION OF PROPERTY - RAILROADS
###### ยง 1244.9 Procedures for the release of waybill data.
####### Content of waybill requests.

(e)(1) All requestors under paragraphs (b)(4) and (c) of this section shall include the following information:

(i) A complete and detailed explanation of the purpose for which the requested data are needed.

(ii) A description of the specific waybill data or fields actually required (including pertinent geographic areas).

(iii) A detailed justification as to why the specified waybill data are needed.

(2) The waybill request shall be filed with the Director, Office of Economics, Surface Transportation Board, Washington, DC.

(f) Aggregation of confidential shipper data.

(1) Any shipper data obtained from the Waybill Sample shall not be publicly released unless the data are aggregated to include at least three shippers.

(2) To aggregate the waybill data to the level of three shippers, the three-FSAC Rule shall be used. Under this rule, there must be at least three different freight stations as identified by the Freight Station Accounting Code (FSAC) on one railroad or there must be at least two more FSAC's than there are railroads present in the waybill data being aggregated.

(3) The three-FSAC Rule shall apply to every number and calculation publicly released.

(4) The Director of Office of Economics will consider requests to apply an alternative aggregation method provided the requestor establishes that a particular project necessitates an alternative approach and that approach effectively protects the identity of individual shippers.
