
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1245 - CLASSIFICATION OF RAILROAD EMPLOYEES; REPORTS OF SERVICE AND COMPENSATION
###### ยง 1245.4 Forms required to be used.

(a) The report of information to the Surface Transportation Board on railroad employees, service and compensation includes two forms. Form A relates to employees other than train and engine service employees. Form B relates to train and engine service employees.

(b) With general reference to the statement of the compensation of employees in Forms A and B, it should be understood that the total compensation received by the employees in each Reporting Division, as well as the amount of work they perform, should be shown properly distributed under the prescribed column heads as indicated by the forms. It should be noted that if the work of an employee varies during a report period, his time and compensation should be apportioned accordingly. Amounts reported should be gross compensation paid.

(c) As elsewhere indicated, the statement of the number of employees in the service of a company with respect to Reporting Divisions depends upon the allocation of the individual employees as of the day of count.

(d) The Reporting Divisions shown in Forms A and B following will also be used in connection with the employees' schedule in the annual reports of railroads of classes I and II to the Board. Railroads of class III and lessor companies shall report only the information required in the annual report forms prescribed for such companies.
