
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1245 - CLASSIFICATION OF RAILROAD EMPLOYEES; REPORTS OF SERVICE AND COMPENSATION
###### ยง 1245.3 Employees; definition, service hours, and compensation.
####### Service hours.

(d)(1) The number of hours on duty, or held for duty, and the number of hours paid for are to be ascertained and recorded for every class of employee. For enginemen and trainmen, the actual number of miles run and miles paid for but not run are to be recorded, as well as the number of hours on duty and the number of hours paid for. (The service time of all classes of employees shall be recorded in hours instead of days or hours as heretofore.)

(2) Whenever an employee works at more than one occupation, or in more than one class of service, both the number of hours worked and the compensation paid, should be separated and reported under the proper Reporting Divisions.

(3) If an employee is paid a day's wage for a smaller number of hours than constitutes a day's work, the number of hours paid for as well as the actual number of hours the employee is on duty should be ascertained and recorded. Time allowed for meals, part holidays, holidays, absences on leave, vacations, etc., should be excluded from time actually worked, but if such time is paid for it should be appropriately reported as "Time paid for but not worked" on Form A or as a "constructive allowance" on Form B. These requirements apply to enginemen and trainmen paid on the basis of trips or of miles run, and to employees paid at piece rates, as well as to employees paid on hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, or other time basis. Service hours for officers and employees who do not receive payment for overtime should be reported as the number of hours in each month at 8 hours per day contemplated for the position.
