
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1250 - RAILROAD PERFORMANCE DATA REPORTING
###### § 1250.1 General.

(a) The reporting period covers:

(1) For § 1250.2(a)(1)-(9), 12:01 a.m. Saturday-11:59 p.m. Friday;

(2) For § 1250.2(a)(10), the previous calendar month;

(3) For § 1250.2(a)(11), 12:01 a.m. Sunday-11:59 p.m. Saturday;

(4) For § 1250.3(a)(1)-(2), 12:01 a.m. Saturday-11:59 p.m. Friday.

(b) The data required under § 1250.2 and § 1250.3(a) must be reported to the Board via the method and in the form prescribed by the Board's Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance (OPAGAC) by 5 p.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday of each week. In the event that a particular Wednesday is a Federal holiday or falls on a day when STB offices are closed for any other reason, then the data should be reported on the next business day when the offices are open.

(c) Each reporting railroad shall provide an explanation of its methodology for deriving the data with its initial filing and an update if and when that methodology changes. This explanation should include the unit train definition that the railroad will use in its data reporting, which shall reflect its assignment of train codes in accordance with its normal business practices. If and when a railroad changes its definition of unit train it shall notify the Board of the change at the time it goes into effect in the form prescribed by OPAGAC.

(d) Unless otherwise provided, the performance data, Chicago data and alert levels, narrative infrastructure reporting, and any methodologies or explanations of data collection reported to the Board under this part will be publicly available and posted on the Board's Web site.
