
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1250 - RAILROAD PERFORMANCE DATA REPORTING
###### ยง 1250.2 Railroad performance data elements.
####### e.g.,

(3) Weekly average cars on line by the following car types for the reporting week. (Each railroad shall average its daily on-line inventory of freight cars. Articulated cars should be counted as a single unit. Cars on private tracks (at a customer's facility) should be counted on the last railroad on which they were located. Maintenance-of-way cars and other cars in railroad service are to be excluded.)

(i) Box.

(ii) Covered hopper.

(iii) Gondola.

(iv) Intermodal.

(v) Multilevel (Automotive).

(vi) Open hopper.

(vii) Tank.

(viii) Other.

(ix) Total.

(4) Weekly average dwell time at origin for the following train types: Grain unit, coal unit, automotive unit, crude oil unit, ethanol unit, and all other unit trains. (For the purposes of this data element, dwell time refers to the time period from release of a unit train at origin until actual movement by the receiving carrier.)

(5) The weekly average number of trains holding per day sorted by train type (intermodal, grain unit, coal unit, automotive unit, crude oil unit, ethanol unit, other unit, and manifest) and by cause (crew, locomotive power, or other). (Railroads are instructed to run a same-time snapshot of trains holding each day, and then to calculate the average for the reporting period.)
