
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1250 - RAILROAD PERFORMANCE DATA REPORTING
###### ยง 1250.2 Railroad performance data elements.
####### e.g.,

(6) The weekly average of loaded and empty cars, operating in normal movement and billed to an origin or destination, which have not moved in 48 hours or more, sorted by service type (intermodal, grain, coal, crude oil, automotive, ethanol, fertilizer (the following Standard Transportation Commodity Codes (STCCs): 2812534, 2818142, 2818146, 2818170, 2818426, 2819173, 2819454, 2819815, 2871235, 2871236, 2871238, 2871244, 2871313, 2871315, and 2871451), chemicals or allied products (all STCC 28 not otherwise reported under ethanol or fertilizer), and all other). In order to derive the averages for the reporting period, carriers should run a same-time snapshot each day of the reporting period, capturing cars that have not moved in 48 hours or more. The number of cars captured on the daily snapshot for each category should be added, and then divided by the number of days in the reporting period. In deriving this data, carriers should include cars in normal service anywhere on their system, but should not include cars placed at a customer facility; in constructive placement; placed for interchange to another carrier; in bad order status; in storage; or operating in railroad service (ballast).

(7) The weekly total number of grain cars loaded and billed, reported by state, aggregated for the following STCCs: 01131 (barley), 01132 (corn), 01133 (oats), 01135 (rye), 01136 (sorghum grains), 01137 (wheat), 01139 (grain, not elsewhere classified), 01144 (soybeans), 01341 (beans, dry), 01342 (peas, dry), and 01343 (cowpeas, lentils, or lupines). "Total grain cars loaded and billed" includes cars in shuttle service; dedicated train service; reservation, lottery, open and other ordering systems; and private cars. Additionally, separately report the total cars loaded and billed in shuttle service (or dedicated train service), if any, versus total cars loaded and billed in all other ordering systems, including private cars.

(8) For the aggregated STCCs listed in ยง 1250.2(a)(7), for railroad-owned or leased cars that will move in manifest service, each railroad shall report by state the following:

(i) Running total of orders placed;

(ii) The running total of orders filled;

(iii) For orders which have not been filled, the number of orders that are 1-10 days past due and 11+ days past due, as measured from when the car was due for placement under the railroad's governing tariff.

(9) Weekly average coal unit train loadings or carloadings versus planned loadings for the reporting week by coal production region. Railroads have the option to report unit train loadings or carloadings, but should be consistent week over week.

(10) For Class I carriers operating a grain shuttle program, the average grain shuttle turns per month, for the total system and by region, versus planned turns per month, for the total system and by region. This data shall be included in the first weekly report of each month, covering the previous calendar month.

(11) Weekly carloads originated and carloads received in interchange by 23 commodity categories, separated into two subgroups:

(i) Twenty-two historical commodity categories.

(A) Chemicals.

(B) Coal.

(C) Coke.

(D) Crushed Stone, Sand and Gravel.

(E) Farm Products except Grain.

(F) Food and Kindred Products.

(G) Grain Mill Products.

(H) Grain.

(I) Iron and Steel Scrap.

(J) Lumber and Wood Products.

(K) Metallic Ores.

(L) Metals.

(M) Motor Vehicles and Equipment.

(N) Non Metallic Minerals.

(O) Petroleum Products.

(P) Primary Forest Products.

(Q) Pulp, Paper and Allied Products.

(R) Stone, Clay and Glass Products.

(S) Waste and Scrap Materials.

(T) All Other.

(U) Containers.

(V) Trailers.

(ii) Fertilizer commodity category.

(A) Fertilizer (for STCCs defined in paragraph (a)(6) of this section).

(B) [Reserved]

(b) [Reserved]
