
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter C - Accounts, Records, and Reports
##### PART 1280 - HANDLING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION AND CLASSIFIED MATERIAL
###### ยง 1280.4 Responsibility for handling of classified documents.

(a) Responsible Official. Primary responsibility for the handling of classified documents shall rest with the Assistant to the Director of the Office of Compliance and Consumer Assistance, who is also Emergency Coordinator for the Board. All documents bearing the terms "Top Secret," "Secret," and "Confidential" shall be delivered to the Emergency Coordinator or his/her alternate immediately upon receipt. The alternate is also an Assistant to the Director of the Office of Compliance and Consumer Assistance as set forth in ยง 1280.4(b) of the rules. All potential recipients of such documents shall be advised of the name of the Emergency Coordinator. In the event that the Emergency Coordinator or his/her alternate is not available to receive such documents, they shall be turned over to the Associate Director, Office of Compliance and Consumer Assistance, and secured, unopened, in the combination safe located in Room 5325 of the headquarters building until the Emergency Coordinator or alternate is available. All material not immediately deliverable to either the Emergency Coordinator, alternate, or the Associate Director, Office of Compliance and Consumer Assistance, shall be delivered at the earliest opportunity. Under no circumstances shall classified material that cannot be delivered to the Emergency Coordinator be stored other than in the designated safe in Room 5325 of the STB headquarters building.

(b) The alternate to the Emergency Coordinator for the receipt and handling of documents mentioned in paragraph (a) of this section, shall be the other Assistant to the Director, Office of Compliance and Consumer Assistance.

(c) Any person whose position requires access to classified information must execute Form SF #189.

(d) Any contracts with media representatives by personnel with access to classified material and involving such material will be cleared through the Emergency Coordinator and more than one person shall be present during any briefing or interview.
