
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter D - Carrier Rates and Service Terms
##### PART 1310 - TARIFF REQUIREMENTS FOR HOUSEHOLD GOODS CARRIERS
###### ยง 1310.4 Incorporation of tariff provisions by reference.

(a) Carriers that maintain tariffs pursuant to this part may incorporate the terms of such tariffs by reference (i.e., without stating their full text) into the bill of lading or other document embodying the contract of carriage for the transportation of household goods, provided that:

(1) The bill of lading or other document must contain a conspicuous notice that the contract of carriage incorporates the terms of the carrier's tariffs; the carrier must give notice that its tariffs are available for inspection in its bill of lading or by other actual notice to individuals whose shipments are subject to such tariffs; and the carrier must make the full text of incorporated terms readily available for inspection by the shipper, free of charge, upon request. If such terms cannot be made available immediately, they must be made available promptly and free of charge by mail or other delivery service.

(2) If the incorporated terms include any of the terms set forth in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the notice on the bill of lading or other document must indicate that such terms are included; the shipper must be provided with a brief summary of the principal features of such terms on or with the document; and the shipper must be able to obtain a more complete explanation of such terms upon request.

(i) Limits on the carrier's liability for loss, damage, or delay of goods, including fragile or valuable goods.

(ii) Claim restrictions, including time periods within which shippers or consignees must file a claim or bring an action against the carrier for its acts or omissions or those of its agents.

(iii) Rights of the carrier to impose monetary penalties on shippers or consignees, increase the price of the transportation, or change any terms of the contract.

(b) A carrier may not claim the benefit as against a shipper or consignee of, and a shipper or consignee shall not be bound by, any tariff term that is incorporated by reference under this section unless the carrier has complied with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The disclosure requirements established by this section preempt any State requirements on the same subject, for tariff terms that are incorporated by reference into the bill of lading or other document embodying the contract of carriage for the transportation of household goods.
