
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter D - Carrier Rates and Service Terms
##### PART 1310 - TARIFF REQUIREMENTS FOR HOUSEHOLD GOODS CARRIERS
###### ยง 1310.5 Availability of tariffs at carrier offices.

(a) Each carrier shall maintain, at its principal office, a complete set of its effective tariffs and those to which it is a party.

(b) Each carrier shall also maintain some or all of its tariffs at its other business offices, upon request. Carriers shall provide information regarding all locations where tariffs may be viewed.

(c) At all points where tariffs are maintained, they shall be made available for inspection by any person during the carrier's normal business hours. The tariffs shall be accessible and readable. The carrier shall also display, in a conspicuous place in those locations, a notice, in large print, which contains a statement that the tariffs are available for public inspection.

(d) At all other carrier business offices, the carrier shall display a notice advising the public of the location of the nearest available tariff. The notice shall be in large print and posted in a conspicuous place. In addition, the carrier shall, upon request, make its tariffs available at that location as soon as possible but not later than within 20 days, or provide the sought information orally if satisfactory to the requestor.

(e) Any publication referred to in a tariff must be maintained with that tariff.

(f) If any tariff maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section has not been used for a substantial length of time, the availability of that tariff, including its reissues, may be discontinued at that office until such time as it is again requested. It shall then be made available within 20 days.
