
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter D - Carrier Rates and Service Terms
##### PART 1313 - RAILROAD CONTRACTS FOR THE TRANSPORTATION OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
###### ยง 1313.10 Procedures for complaints and discovery.
####### Protective order.

(d)Petitioner and carriers, and their duly authorized agents, shall limit to the contract complaint proceeding the use of contract information or other confidential commercial information which may be revealed in the contract, the complaint, reply, or in any other pleading relating to the contract. This restriction shall be a condition to release of any contract term to a petitioner/complainant and shall operate similarly on a carrier in possession of confidential information which may be contained in a complaint, petition for discovery, or request for informal disclosure. Any information pertaining to parties to the contract or subject to the contract (including consignors, consignees and carriers), or pertaining to the terms of the contract, or relating to the petitioner's/complainant's confidential commercial information, must be kept confidential. Neither the information nor the existence of the information shall be disclosed to third parties, except for: consultants or agents who agree, in writing, to be bound by this regulation; information which is publicly available; information which, after receipt, becomes publicly available through no fault of the party seeking to disclose the information after it has become publicly available, or is acquired from a third party free of any restriction as to its disclosure. The petitioner/complainant or carrier must take all necessary steps to assure that the information will be kept confidential by its employees and agents. No copies of the contract terms or other confidential information are to be retained by the parties not originally privy to the data subsequent to the termination of the proceeding.
