
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter X - Surface Transportation Board
#### Subchapter D - Carrier Rates and Service Terms
##### PART 1331 - APPLICATIONS UNDER 49 U.S.C. 10706 AND 13703
###### ยง 1331.1 Form and content of application.

The application and supporting exhibits shall conform to 49 CFR part 1104 and shall show, in the order and with the paragraph designations indicated, the following:

(a) Full name and business address of the carrier applicant(s); whether each applicant is a corporation, individual, or partnership; if a corporation, the State of incorporation; and if a partnership, the names of the partners and date of the partnership's formation.

(b) Full name and business address of each entity on whose behalf the application is filed and whether it is a corporation, individual, or partnership.

(c) Whether applicant and each entity on whose behalf the application is filed is a rail, motor, or water carrier, a household goods freight forwarder, or express, sleeping-car, or pipeline company.

(d) If the agreement of which approval is sought pertains to a conference, bureau, committee, or other organization, a complete description of such organization, including any subunits, and of its or their functions and methods of operation, together with a description of the territorial scope of such operations, and a complete description of any working or other arrangement or relationship that such organization has with any other organization. If the agreement is of any other character, a precise statement of its nature and scope and the mode of procedure thereunder.

(e) The facts and circumstances relied upon to establish that the agreement will promote the national transportation policy at 49 U.S.C. 10101.

(f) The name, title, and address of the person to whom correspondence is to be sent.
