
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 80 - CREDIT ASSISTANCE FOR SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS
#### ยง 80.17 Fees.

(a) The DOT will require a non-refundable application fee for each project applying for credit assistance under the TIFIA. The DOT may also require an additional credit processing fee for projects selected to receive TIFIA assistance. Any required application initiation or credit processing fee must be paid by the project sponsor applying for TIFIA assistance and cannot be paid by another party on behalf of the project sponsor. The proceeds of any such fees will equal a portion of the costs to the Federal Government of soliciting and evaluating applications, selecting projects to receive assistance, and negotiating credit agreements. For FY 2000, the DOT will require payment of a fee of $5,000 for each project applying for credit assistance under the TIFIA, to be submitted concurrently with the formal application. The DOT will not impose any credit processing fees for FY 2000. For each application and approval cycle in FY 2001 and beyond, the DOT may adjust the amount of the application fee and will determine the appropriate amount of the credit processing fee based on program implementation experience. The DOT will publish these amounts in eachsolicitation for applications.

(b) Applicants shall not include application initiation or credit processing fees or any other expenses associated with the application process (such as fees associated with obtaining the required preliminary rating opinion letter) among eligible project costs for the purpose of calculating the maximum 33 percent credit amount referenced in ยง 80.5(a).

(c) If, in any given year, there is insufficient budget authority to fund the credit instrument for a qualified project that has been selected to receive assistance under TIFIA, the DOT and the approved applicant may agree upon a supplemental fee to be paid by or on behalf of the approved applicant at the time of execution of the term sheet to reduce the subsidy cost of that project. No such fee may be included among eligible project costs for the purpose of calculating the maximum 33 percent credit amount referenced in ยง 80.5(a).
