
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 89 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FEDERAL CLAIMS COLLECTION ACT
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 89.3 Applicability.

(a) The part applies to collection of all claims due the United States under the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 as amended by the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and the Debt Collection Amendments of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-578), arising from activities under the jurisdiction of DOT including amounts due the United States from fees, overpayments, fines, civil penalties, loans, damages, interest, and other sources.

(b) This part does not apply to collection, settlement or compromise of debts owed the United States pursuant to authority other than Title 31, Chapter 37, Subchapter II: for example, application of this part to the enforcement of contracts under 46 U.S.C. 1117, delegated to the DOT Maritime Administration, is not required.

(c) Section 89.23 (interest, late payment penalties, and collection charges) and ยง 89.25 (collection by administrative offset) of this part do not apply to debts which other United States government agencies or state governments or units of general local government owe the Department (see 31 U.S.C. 3701(c)); however, other statutory or common law may provide legal authority. Neither does the proposed rule apply to recovery of debts owed by current or former employees of the United States governed by 5 U.S.C. 5514.

(d) Claims arising out of contracts that contain specific provisions relating to claims are governed by those specific provisions to the extent that those provisions comply with existing law and with 4 CFR chapter II.

(e) As used in this part, the terms debt and claims are interchangeable and have the meaning defined in 4 CFR 101.2(a). A debtor's liability arising out of a particular incident or adjudication exclusive of interest, administrative costs, and late payment penalties, is a single claim.

(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section the provisions of this part shall apply to the collection of all debts and claims owed to any DOT operating element. A claim arising from the assessment of civil penalty or fine is not subject to the procedures of this subpart until the claim has been reduced to a liquidated debt by a signed settlement agreement, a court order or judgment, or a final administrative determination.
