
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1503 - INVESTIGATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
###### Subpart E - Assessment of Civil Penalties by TSA
####### ยง 1503.401 Maximum penalty amounts.
######## Certain aviation related violations.

(c)In the case of a violation of 49 U.S.C. chapter 449 (except sections 44902, 44903(d), 44907(a)-(d)(1)(A), 44907(d)(1)(C)-(f), 44908, and 44909), or 49 U.S.C. 46302 or 46303, or a regulation prescribed or order issued under any of those provisions, TSA may impose a civil penalty in the following amounts:

(1) For violations that occurred on or before November 2, 2015, $10,000 per violation, up to a total of $50,000 per civil penalty action, in the case of an individual or small business concern ("small business concern" as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)). For violations that occurred after November 2, 2015, $16,108 per violation, up to a total of $80,544 per civil penalty action, in the case of an individual (except an airman serving as an airman), or a small business concern.

(2) For violations that occurred on or before November 2, 2015, $10,000 per violation, up to a total of $400,000 per civil penalty action, in the case of any other person (except an airman serving as an airman) not operating an aircraft for the transportation of passengers or property for compensation. For violations that occurred after November 2, 2015, $16,108 per violation, up to a total of $644,343 per civil penalty action, in the case of any other person (except an airman serving as an airman) not operating an aircraft for the transportation of passengers or property for compensation.

(3) For violations that occurred on or before November 2, 2015, $25,000 per violation, up to a total of $400,000 per civil penalty action, in the case of a person operating an aircraft for the transportation of passengers or property for compensation (except an individual serving as an airman). For violations that occurred after November 2, 2015, $40,272 per violation, up to a total of $644,343 per civil penalty action, in the case of a person (except an individual serving as an airman) operating an aircraft for the transportation of passengers or property for compensation.
