
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 89 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FEDERAL CLAIMS COLLECTION ACT
#### Subpart B - Collection of Claims
##### ยง 89.23 Interest, late payment penalties, and collection charges.

(a) DOT shall charge interest on an outstanding debt at the Treasury Current Value of Funds Rate published by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 4 CFR 102.13(c), unless DOT determines that a higher rate is necessary to protect the interests of the United States. DOT shall charge a late payment penalty at a rate of six percent a year on any portion of a debt that is more than 90 days past due. DOT shall also assess administrative charges to cover additional cost incurred in processing and handling the debt beyond the payment due date. The imposition of interest, collection charges, and late payment penalty charges shall be made in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717, 4 CFR 102.13 (see ยง 89.3(c) regarding payment of such charges by Federal, state and local government agencies).

(b) Interest on debt shall begin to accrue on the date on which the debtor is mailed or delivered notice of the debt and the interest requirements or, in the case of advance billings, on the calendar day following the specified due date of the debt, provided the advance billing gives notice of the interest requirements for late payment. Interest on the debt shall continue to accrue until payment is received. Interest shall be calculated only on the principal of the debt (simple interest). The rate of interest assessed shall be the rate in effect on the date from which interest begins to accrue, and will remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. The rate of interest assessed will generally be the Treasury Current Value of Funds Rate.

(c) The Department shall waive interest on debt that is paid within 30 calendar days after the date on which interest began to accrue.

(d) Collection charges on debt shall be computed to cover the cost of processing and handling the delinquent debt. It shall be either the actual cost to process the particular delinquent debt to which it is applied, or operating elements may set the amount of such monthly charge by cost analysis establishing the average of actual additional costs incurred by the operating element in processing similar debts. Collection charges may also include the expense of obtaining credit reports and of using a professional debt collection contractor.

(e) DOT may waive interest, collection charges, or late payment penalty charges if it finds that:

(1) The debtor would be eligible for compromise under standards set forth in 4 CFR 103.2 with regard to the amount of the debt;

(2) Collection of interest, administrative charges, or penalties will jeopardize collection of the principal of the debt; or

(3) It is otherwise in the best interests of the United States, including the situation in which an offset or installment payment agreement is in effect.
