
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1503 - INVESTIGATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
###### Subpart G - Rules of Practice in TSA Civil Penalty Actions
####### ยง 1503.633 Discovery.
######## Confidential orders.

(h)A party or person who has received a discovery request for information, other than SSI, that is related to a trade secret, confidential or sensitive material, competitive or commercial information, proprietary data, or information on research and development, may file a motion for a confidential order with the ALJ and must serve a copy of the motion for a confidential order on each party.

(1) The party or person making the motion must show that the confidential order is necessary to protect the information from disclosure to the public.

(2) If the ALJ determines that the requested material is not necessary to decide the case, the ALJ must preclude any inquiry into the matter by any party.

(3) If the ALJ determines that the requested material may be disclosed during discovery, the ALJ may order that the material may be discovered and disclosed under limited conditions or may be used only under certain terms and conditions.

(4) If the ALJ determines that the requested material is necessary to decide the case and that a confidential order is warranted, the ALJ must provide the following:

(i) An opportunity for review of the document by the parties off the record.

(ii) Procedures for excluding the information from the record.

(iii) An order that the parties must not disclose the information in any manner and the parties must not use the information in any other proceeding.
