
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1503 - INVESTIGATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
###### Subpart G - Rules of Practice in TSA Civil Penalty Actions
####### ยง 1503.633 Discovery.
######## Interrogatories.

(l)A party, the party's attorney, or the party's representative may sign the party's responses to interrogatories. A party must answer each interrogatory separately and completely in writing. If a party objects to an interrogatory, the party must state the objection and the reasons for the objection. An opposing party may use any part or all of a party's responses to interrogatories at a hearing authorized under this subpart to the extent that the response is relevant, material, and not repetitious.

(1) A party must not serve more than 30 interrogatories to each other party. Each subpart of an interrogatory will be counted as a separate interrogatory.

(2) Before serving additional interrogatories on a party, a party must file a motion for leave to serve additional interrogatories on a party with the ALJ and must serve a copy on each party before serving additional interrogatories on a party. The ALJ may grant the motion only if the party shows good cause for the party's failure to inquire about the information previously and that the information cannot reasonably be obtained using less burdensome discovery methods or be obtained from other sources.
