
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1503 - INVESTIGATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
###### Subpart G - Rules of Practice in TSA Civil Penalty Actions
####### ยง 1503.657 Appeal from initial decision.
######## The TSA decision maker's decision on appeal.

(j)The TSA decision maker will review the briefs on appeal and the oral argument, if any, to determine if the ALJ committed prejudicial error in the proceedings or that the initial decision should be affirmed, modified, or reversed. The TSA decision maker may affirm, modify, or reverse the initial decision, make any necessary findings, or may remand the case for any proceedings that the TSA decision maker determines may be necessary.

(1) The TSA decision maker may raise any issue, on the TSA decision maker's own initiative, that is required for proper disposition of the proceedings. The TSA decision maker will give the parties a reasonable opportunity to submit arguments on the new issues before making a decision on appeal. If an issue raised by the TSA decision maker requires the consideration of additional testimony or evidence, the TSA decision maker will remand the case to the ALJ for further proceedings and an initial decision related to that issue. If the TSA decision maker raises an issue that is solely an issue of law, or the issue was addressed at the hearing but was not raised by a party in the briefs on appeal, the TSA decision maker need not remand the case to the ALJ for further proceedings but has the discretion to do so.

(2) The TSA decision maker will issue the final decision and order of the Administrator on appeal in writing and will serve a copy of the decision and order on each party. Unless a petition for review is filed pursuant to ยง 1503.659, a final decision and order of the Administrator will be considered an order assessing civil penalty if the TSA decision maker finds that an alleged violation occurred and a civil penalty is warranted.

(3) A final decision and order of the Administrator after appeal is binding precedent in any other civil penalty action unless appealed and reversed by a court of competent jurisdiction.

(4) The TSA decision maker will determine whether the decision and order of the TSA decision maker, with the ALJ's initial decision or order attached, may be released to the public, either in whole or in redacted form. In making this determination, the TSA decision maker will consider whether disclosure of any of the information in the decision and order would be detrimental to transportation security, would not be in the public interest, or should not otherwise be required to be made available to the public.
