
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1510 - PASSENGER CIVIL AVIATION SECURITY SERVICE FEES
###### ยง 1510.13 Remittance of security service fees.

(a) Each direct air carrier and foreign air carrier must remit all security service fees imposed each calendar month to TSA, as directed by the Administrator, by the last calendar day of the month following the imposition.

(b) Direct air carriers and foreign air carriers may retain any interest that accrues on the principal amounts collected between the date of collection and the date the fee is remitted to TSA in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Direct air carriers and foreign air carriers are prohibited from retaining any portion of the principal to offset the costs of collecting, handling, or remitting the passenger security service fees.

(d) Security service fees are payable to the "Transportation Security Administration" in U.S. currency and drawn on a U.S. bank.

(1) Fees of $1,000 or more must be remitted by electronic funds transfer.

(2) Fees under $1,000 may be remitted by electronic funds transfer, check, money order, wire transfer, or draft.

(e) Direct air carriers and foreign air carriers are responsible for paying any bank processing charges on the security service fees collected or remitted under this part when such charges are assessed on the U.S. government.
