
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1510 - PASSENGER CIVIL AVIATION SECURITY SERVICE FEES
###### ยง 1510.9 Collection of security service fees.

(a) The following direct air carriers and foreign air carriers must collect security service fees from passengers on-

(1) A scheduled passenger or public charter passenger operation with an aircraft having passenger seating configuration of more than 60 seats.

(2) A scheduled passenger or public charter passenger operation with an aircraft having a passenger seating configuration of less than 61 seats when passengers are enplaned from or deplaned into a sterile area.

(b) Direct air carriers and foreign air carriers must collect from each passenger, to the extent provided in ยง 1510.5, a security service fee on air transportation sold on or after 12:00 a.m. (Eastern Daylight Time) on July 21, 2014. The security service fee must be based on the air travel itinerary at the time the air transportation is sold. Any changes by the passenger to the itinerary are subject to additional collection or refund of the security service fee by the direct air carrier or foreign air carrier, as appropriate.

(c) Whether or not the security service fee is collected as required by this part, the direct air carrier or foreign air carrier selling the air transportation is solely liable to TSA for the fee and must remit the fee as required in ยง 1510.13.

(d) Direct air carriers and foreign air carriers may not collect security service fees not imposed by this part.
