
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1511 - AVIATION SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE FEE
###### ยง 1511.7 Remittance of Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees.

(a) No later than May 31, 2002, each air carrier and foreign air carrier engaged in air transportation must remit to TSA.

(1) 3.273 percent of the total amount the carrier has indicated in Appendix A of this part, or an amount as otherwise determined by the Administrator, which will represent the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee due for the period running from February 18 through February 28, 2002; and,

(2) 16.666 percent of the total amount the carrier has indicated in Appendix A of this part, or an amount as otherwise determined by the Administrator, which will represent the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee due for period running from March 1 through April 30, 2002.

(b) Each air carrier and foreign air carrier engaged in air transportation must remit to TSA 8.333 percent of the total amount the carrier has indicated in Appendix A of this part, or an amount as otherwise determined by the Administrator, by the last calendar day of each month following May 2002 up to and including September 2004.

(c) Each air carrier and foreign air carrier engaged in air transportation must remit to TSA 8.333 percent of the total amount as determined by the Administrator pursuant to section 1511.5(g) of this part by the last calendar day of each month following September 2004.

(d) Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees must be payable to the "Transportation Security Administration" in U.S. currency and drawn on a U.S. bank.

(1) Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees of $1,000 or more must be remitted by electronic funds transfer.

(2) Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees under $1,000 may be remitted by electronic funds transfer, check, money order, wire transfer, or draft.

(e) Air carriers and foreign air carriers are responsible for paying any bank processing charges on Aviation Security Infrastructure Fees remitted under this part when such charges are assessed on the U.S. government.
