
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1511 - AVIATION SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE FEE
###### Appendix A to Part 1511 - Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee

When filling out this form, the responding air carrier or foreign air carrier shall include all costs incurred in calendar year 2000 by that air carrier for the screening of passengers and property. Costs are those attributed to the screening of passengers and property in the United States for both flights within the United States and flights from the United States to foreign destinations. Reported costs must be consistent with the air carrier's financial accounting information reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Where actual costs of screening passengers and property cannot be directly identified through an air carrier's accounting system, the air carrier shall use an appropriate alternate cost assignment methodology. Documentation that explains and supports the assignment methodology used, the applicable pool and the allocation basis must be made available upon request. For costs related to capitalized property, please report the associated depreciation expense incurred during calendar year 2000. Capitalization policy must also be made available upon request.

To the extent necessary, the reporting air carrier may aggregate those specific costs that have been incurred but cannot be stated in the detailed cost categories requested by this form. However, all of the costs identified by this form must be included in the total calculations. In addition, explanations regarding costs that have been aggregated need to be provided. Costs reported in Appendix A do not need to include costs that may have been incurred for a position higher than those of the air carrier's director of security (or equivalent). Costs incurred for higher positions, such as those of the air carrier's chief executive officer, do not need to be included.

When including cost information on acquired and/or merged air carriers, the successor air carrier must specify the names of all of such entities whose calendar year 2000 passenger and property screening costs are included in that air carrier's submission as Appendix A.

The costs listed below are to be in US dollars, rounded to the nearest dollar. Place a zero in the appropriate box to indicate cost categories in which the air carrier did not incur costs for passenger and property screening in calendar year 2000.

Examples of cost types that appear in the supporting notes below are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to set forth all relevant costs that must be reported by air carriers and foreign air carriers. In submitting information to TSA, air carriers and foreign air carriers must submit all of their relevant costs, regardless of whether those costs have been specifically illustrated in the notes.
