
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1511 - AVIATION SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE FEE
###### Appendix A to Part 1511 - Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee
####### www.dot.gov.,TSA-Fees@ost.dot.gov.

This form will be available electronically from the Department of Transportation's website atAir carriers are asked to return the completed form by certified mail to: Chief Financial Officer, Transportation Security Administration, Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street SW, Washington, DC 20590. Please also submit the same information in Microsoft Word either on a computer disk or by e-mail to

Consistent with 49 CFR ยง 1511.5(f), information submitted in Appendix A is deemed to be Sensitive Security Information and will be so protected from public disclosure under 49 U.S.C. 40119(b). In addition, confidential business information and economic information provided in Appendix A will be protected from public disclosure, as appropriate, under 5 U.S.C. ยง 552 (the Freedom of Information Act), 14 CFR ยง 302.12, and 18 U.S.C. ยง 1905. Requests for confidentiality must be filed with the Office of the General Counsel, Department of Transportation (C-10), 400 Seventh Street, SW, Room 10102, Washington, DC 20590.

a. These are costs that the air carrier incurred directly. Includes costs incurred for air carrier personnel salaries and benefits, equipment owned, leased or rented directly by that air carrier and any other costs directly incurred.

b. These are costs that the air carrier incurred through contracts with security firms. Includes personnel, equipment and other costs incurred through contracts with third party security companies.

c. These are costs that the air carrier incurred through other means. Includes costs incurred through air carrier security consortiums.

1. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of checkpoint screening personnel.

2. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of exit lane monitors.

3. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of cargo screeners.

4. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of checked baggage screeners.

5. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of all baggage runners who move property such as baggage to and from screening areas.

6. Salary, benefits, overtime, retirement and other costs of all supervisory personnel, including Checkpoint Screening Supervisors.

7. All associated expensed non-labor costs including computers, communications equipment, time management systems, supplies, parking, identification badging, furniture, fixtures, and travel.

8. All costs of performing required background investigations on all screening personnel and supervisors. Screening personnel and supervisors includes checkpoint screening personnel, exit lane monitors, cargo screeners, checked baggage screeners, baggage runners, and their supervisors.

9. All costs incurred for the training and testing of all screening personnel and supervisors, including initial, recurrent and remedial training. Includes any computer-based training and the development of training programs for the screening of persons and property as well as any travel, room and board, and all other such expenses related to training.

10. The costs of implementing and maintaining training records for all screening personnel and supervisors.

11. The costs of completing evaluations for all screening personnel and supervisors.

12. All costs for drug and alcohol testing as well as any associated counseling and/or treatment for all screening personnel and supervisors.

13. All costs of renting, purchasing, maintaining, and/or cleaning of uniforms and any related equipment such as flashlights and batons for all screening personnel and supervisors.

14. All costs incurred by air carriers for the use of canines and their handlers used for the screening of persons and property.

15. All costs associated with obtaining security clearances for personnel relating to the screening of persons and property.

16. All costs associated with the purchase, installation, and testing of all screening equipment. In instances where the equipment is capitalized, provide the depreciation expense in lieu of costs associated with purchase, installation, and final acceptance testing. This includes such equipment as Metal Detection Devices, Hand Wands, X-ray screening machines, Explosives Trace Detection Devices, Explosives Detection Systems, or any other such similar technologies. Includes any costs incurred or depreciation costs recognized in calendar year 2000 for the modification and/or construction of any facility needed to accommodate screening, including architecture and engineering. Also includes the costs of any refurbishment and/or modernization of the equipment.

17. Costs of operating, maintaining, and calibrating installed screening equipment. This includes such equipment as Metal Detection Devices, Hand Wands, X-ray screening machines, Explosives Trace Detection Devices, Explosives Detection Systems, or any other such similar technologies. Includes such costs as test objects and X-ray radiation surveys, electricity costs and maintenance contract costs incurred for the operations of such equipment.

18. Costs of maintaining integrity of sterile areas. Includes costs of opening sterile areas, emergency evacuations of sterile areas, and re-screenings not included elsewhere.

19. The cost of purchase or rent, installation, testing, and maintenance of checkpoint signs, barriers, lane markers, and exit lane doors.

20. Any additional costs for special screening such as for disabled passengers, VIP passengers, classified and/or high value items.

21. All security company contract costs for the screening of persons and property that cannot be detailed into any other cost category.

22. All direct costs for the real estate utilized for the screening of persons and property. Includes space at airports for the performance of these functions, as well as such space used for break rooms, private screening rooms, storages space, training rooms, and office space. Also includes appropriate space for the oversight of the screening functions outside of airports such as in headquarters or regional offices.

23. All costs for utilities used for screening. Includes electricity, heating/ventilation/cooling, and telecommunications costs not elsewhere specified.

24. All costs incurred for the Ground Security Coordinator's oversight of the screening functions. Includes personnel salaries, benefits, retirement, training, and non-labor costs.

25. All air carrier head office, regional, or airport specific costs associated with the administration and oversight of screening not elsewhere specified. Includes personnel salaries, benefits, retirement, training, and non-labor costs.

26. All costs associated with the administration and oversight of screening contracts. Includes personnel, benefits, retirement, training, and non-labor costs.

27. All costs not elsewhere specified for background audit checks for all screeners and supervisors.

28. All legal support costs incurred during calendar year 2000 relating to aviation security screening. Includes legal assistance for the implementation and execution of security screening contracts.

29. All costs for accounting and financial services incurred for the support of the screening functions.

30. Includes all labor and non-labor costs for such items as human resource administration, clerical assistance, information technology, and other support functions related to screening.

31. All insurance costs relating to screening. Includes worker's compensation and general liability insurance.

32. All costs incurred by the air carriers for law enforcement personnel costs that were reimbursed by the air carriers for services performed in connection with the screening of persons and property.

33. All costs associated with the recruitment of screening personnel and supervisors. Includes signing bonuses, travel, and other recruitment expenses.

34. Any costs incurred for fees charged by other organizations for the management of contracts for the screening of persons and property.

35. Any costs incurred not elsewhere specified during calendar year 2000 for the screening of passengers and property. These costs should be itemized on a separate sheet. Includes any fines or monetary penalties incurred for screening as well as any profit/bonuses paid to contractors for screening services not included elsewhere on the form.
