
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1515 - APPEAL AND WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS
###### ยง 1515.9 Appeal of security threat assessment based on other analyses.
####### Final Determination of Threat Assessment.

(c)(1) If the Assistant Administrator concludes that the applicant poses a security threat, following an appeal, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment upon the applicant. In addition-

(i) In the case of an HME, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the licensing State.

(ii) In the case of a TWIC, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the Coast Guard.

(iii) In the case of an air cargo worker, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the operator.

(iv) In the case of a certified cargo screening facilities worker, TSA serves a Final Determination of Threat Assessment on the operator.

(2) The Final Determination includes a statement that the Assistant Administrator has reviewed the Initial Determination, the applicant's reply and any accompanying information, and any other materials or information available to him or her, and has determined that the applicant poses a security threat warranting denial of the security threat assessment for which the applicant has applied.
