
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1515 - APPEAL AND WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS
###### ยง 1515.7 Procedures for waiver of criminal offenses, immigration status, or mental capacity standards.
####### Initiating waiver.

(c)(1) An applicant initiates a waiver as follows:

(i) Providing to TSA the information required in 49 CFR 1572.9 for an HME or 49 CFR 1572.17 for a TWIC.

(ii) Paying the fees required in 49 CFR 1572.405 for an HME or in 49 CFR 1572.501 for a TWIC.

(iii) Sending a written request to TSA for a waiver at any time, but not later than 60 days after the date of service of the Final Determination of Threat Assessment. The applicant may request a waiver during the application process, or may first pursue some or all of the appeal procedures in 49 CFR 1515.5 to assert that he or she does not have a disqualifying condition.

(2) In determining whether to grant a waiver, TSA will consider the following factors, as applicable to the disqualifying condition:

(i) The circumstances of the disqualifying act or offense.

(ii) Restitution made by the applicant.

(iii) Any Federal or State mitigation remedies.

(iv) Court records or official medical release documents indicating that the applicant no longer lacks mental capacity.

(v) Other factors that indicate the applicant does not pose a security threat warranting denial of the HME or TWIC.
