
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1515 - APPEAL AND WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS
###### ยง 1515.11 Review by administrative law judge and TSA Final Decision Maker.
####### Review by the TSA Final Decision Maker.

(g)(1) Either party may request that the TSA Final Decision Maker review the ALJ's decision by serving the request no later than 30 calendar days after the date of service of the decision of the ALJ.

(i) The request must be in writing, served on the other party, and may only address whether the decision is supported by substantial evidence on the record.

(ii) No later than 30 calendar days after receipt of the request, the other party may file a response.

(2) The ALJ will provide the TSA Final Decision Maker with a certified transcript of the hearing and all unclassified documents and material submitted for the record. TSA will provide any classified materials previously submitted.

(3) No later than 60 calendar days after receipt of the request, or if the other party files a response, 30 calendar days after receipt of the response, or such longer period as may be required, the TSA Final Decision Maker issues an unclassified decision and serves the decision on the parties. The TSA Final Decision Maker may issue a classified opinion to TSA, if applicable. The decision of the TSA Final Decision Maker is a final agency order.

(i) In the case of review of a waiver denial, if the TSA Final Decision Maker upholds the denial of the applicant's request for waiver, TSA issues a Final Order Denying a Waiver to the applicant.

(ii) In the case of review of a waiver denial, if the TSA Final Decision Maker reverses the denial of the applicant's request for waiver, TSA will grant the waiver; and

(A) In the case of an HME, send a Determination of No Security Threat to the applicant and to the licensing State.

(B) In the case of a TWIC, send a Determination of No Security Threat to the applicant and to the Coast Guard.

(C) In the case of an air cargo worker, send a Determination of No Security Threat to the applicant and the operator.

(iii) In the case of review of an appeal under 49 CFR 1515.9, if the TSA Final Decision Maker determines that the applicant poses a security threat, TSA will issue a Final Order of Threat Assessment to the applicant.

(iv) In the case of review of an appeal under 49 CFR 1515.9, if the TSA Final Decision Maker determines that the applicant does not pose a security threat, TSA will issue a Withdrawal of the Final Determination to the applicant, and to the applicant's employer where applicable.
