
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1515 - APPEAL AND WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS
###### ยง 1515.11 Review by administrative law judge and TSA Final Decision Maker.
####### Hearing.

(e)If the ALJ grants a request for a hearing, except for good cause shown, it will begin within 60 calendar days of the date of receipt of the request for hearing. The hearing is a limited discovery proceeding and is conducted as follows:

(1) If applicable and upon request, TSA will provide to the applicant requesting a review an unclassified summary of classified evidence upon which the denial of the waiver or Final Determination was based.

(i) TSA will not disclose to the applicant, or the applicant's counsel, classified information, as defined in E.O. 12968 section 1.1(d).

(ii) TSA reserves the right not to disclose any other information or material not warranting disclosure or protected from disclosure by law or regulation.

(2) The applicant may present the case by oral testimony, documentary, or demonstrative evidence, submit rebuttal evidence, and conduct cross-examination, as permitted by the ALJ. Oral testimony is limited to the evidence or information that was presented to TSA in the request for a waiver or during the appeal. The Federal Rules of Evidence may serve as guidance, but are not binding.

(3) The ALJ will review any classified information on an ex parte, in camera basis, and may consider such information in rendering a decision if the information appears to be material and relevant.

(4) The standard of proof is substantial evidence on the record.

(5) The parties may submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.

(6) If the applicant fails to appear, the ALJ may issue a default judgment.

(7) A verbatim transcript will be made of the hearing and will be provided upon request at the expense of the requesting party. In cases in which classified or otherwise protected evidence is received, the transcript may require redaction of the classified or otherwise protected information.

(8) The hearing will be held at TSA's Headquarters building or, on request of a party, at an alternate location selected by the administrative law judge for good cause shown.
