
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1515 - APPEAL AND WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS
###### ยง 1515.11 Review by administrative law judge and TSA Final Decision Maker.
####### Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.

(f)(1) The record is closed once the certified transcript and all documents and materials have been submitted for the record.

(2) The ALJ issues an unclassified written decision to the applicant no later than 30 calendar days from the close of the record and serves the decision on the parties. The ALJ may issue a classified decision to TSA.

(3) The ALJ's decision may be appealed by either party to the TSA Final Decision Maker in accordance with paragraph (g).

(i) In the case of review of a waiver denial, unless appealed to the TSA Final Decision Maker, if the ALJ upholds the denial of the applicant's request for waiver, TSA will issue a Final Order Denying a Waiver to the applicant.

(ii) In the case of review of a waiver denial, unless appealed to the TSA Final Decision Maker, if the ALJ reverses the denial of the applicant's request for waiver, TSA will issue a Final Order granting a waiver to the applicant; and

(A) In the case of an HME, send a Determination of No Security Threat to the licensing State.

(B) In the case applicant for a TWIC, send a Determination of No Security Threat to the Coast Guard.

(C) In the case of an air cargo worker, send a Determination of No Security Threat to the operator.

(iii) In the case of review of an appeal under 49 CFR 1515.9, unless appealed to the TSA Final Decision Maker, if the ALJ determines that the applicant poses a security threat, TSA will issue a Final Order of Threat Assessment to the applicant.

(iv) In the case of review of an appeal under 49 CFR 1515.9, unless appealed to the TSA Final Decision Maker, if the ALJ determines that the applicant does not pose a security threat, TSA will issue a Withdrawal of the Final Determination to the applicant, and to the applicant's employer where applicable.
