
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter A - Administrative and Procedural Rules
##### PART 1515 - APPEAL AND WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS
###### ยง 1515.11 Review by administrative law judge and TSA Final Decision Maker.
####### Request for review.

(b)No later than 30 calendar days from the date of service of the decision by TSA denying a waiver or of the Final Determination of Threat Assessment, the applicant may request a review. The review will be conducted by an administrative law judge who possesses the appropriate security clearance necessary to review classified or otherwise protected information and evidence. If the applicant fails to seek review within 30 calendar days, the Final Determination of Threat Assessment will be final with respect to the parties.

(1) The request for review must clearly state the issue(s) to be considered by the administrative law judge (ALJ), and include the following documents in support of the request:

(i) In the case of a review of a denial of waiver, a copy of the applicant's request for a waiver under 49 CFR 1515.7, including all materials provided by the applicant to TSA in support of the waiver request; and a copy of the decision issued by TSA denying the waiver request. The request for review may not include evidence or information that was not presented to TSA in the request for a waiver under 49 CFR 1515.7. The ALJ may consider only evidence or information that was presented to TSA in the waiver request. If the applicant has new evidence or information, the applicant must file a new request for a waiver under ยง 1515.7 and the pending request for review of a denial of a waiver will be dismissed.

(ii) In the case of a review of a Final Determination of Threat Assessment, a copy of the Initial Notification of Threat Assessment and Final Notification of Threat Assessment; and a copy of the applicant's appeal under 49 CFR 1515.9, including all materials provided by the applicant to TSA in support of the appeal. The request for review may not include evidence or information that was not presented to TSA in the appeal under ยง 1515.9. The ALJ may consider only evidence or information that was presented to TSA in the appeal. If the applicant has new evidence or information, the applicant must file a new appeal under ยง 1515.9 and the pending request for review of the Final Determination will be dismissed.

(2) The applicant may include in the request for review a request for an in-person hearing before the ALJ.

(3) The applicant must file the request for review with the ALJ Docketing Center, U.S. Coast Guard, 40 S. Gay Street, Room 412, Baltimore, Maryland 21202-4022, ATTN: Hearing Docket Clerk.
