
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1542 - AIRPORT SECURITY
###### Subpart B - Airport Security Program
####### § 1542.103 Content.
######## Complete program.

(a)Except as otherwise approved by TSA, each airport operator regularly serving operations of an aircraft operator or foreign air carrier described in § 1544.101(a)(1) or § 1546.101(a) of this chapter, must include in its security program the following:

(1) The name, means of contact, duties, and training requirements of the ASC required under § 1542.3.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) A description of the secured areas, including-

(i) A description and map detailing boundaries and pertinent features;

(ii) Each activity or entity on, or adjacent to, a secured area that affects security;

(iii) Measures used to perform the access control functions required under § 1542.201(b)(1);

(iv) Procedures to control movement within the secured area, including identification media required under § 1542.201(b)(3); and

(v) A description of the notification signs required under § 1542.201(b)(6).

(4) A description of the AOA, including-

(i) A description and map detailing boundaries, and pertinent features;

(ii) Each activity or entity on, or adjacent to, an AOA that affects security;

(iii) Measures used to perform the access control functions required under § 1542.203(b)(1);

(iv) Measures to control movement within the AOA, including identification media as appropriate; and

(v) A description of the notification signs required under § 1542.203(b)(4).

(5) A description of the SIDA's, including-

(i) A description and map detailing boundaries and pertinent features; and

(ii) Each activity or entity on, or adjacent to, a SIDA.

(6) A description of the sterile areas, including-

(i) A diagram with dimensions detailing boundaries and pertinent features;

(ii) Access controls to be used when the passenger-screening checkpoint is non-operational and the entity responsible for that access control; and

(iii) Measures used to control access as specified in § 1542.207.

(7) Procedures used to comply with § 1542.209 regarding fingerprint-based criminal history records checks.

(8) A description of the personnel identification systems as described in § 1542.211.

(9) Escort procedures in accordance with § 1542.211(e).

(10) Challenge procedures in accordance with § 1542.211(d).

(11) Training programs required under §§ 1542.213 and 1542.217(c)(2), if applicable.

(12) A description of law enforcement support used to comply with § 1542.215(a).

(13) A system for maintaining the records described in § 1542.221.

(14) The procedures and a description of facilities and equipment used to support TSA inspection of individuals and property, and aircraft operator or foreign air carrier screening functions of parts 1544 and 1546 of this chapter.

(15) A contingency plan required under § 1542.301.

(16) Procedures for the distribution, storage, and disposal of security programs, Security Directives, Information Circulars, implementing instructions, and, as appropriate, classified information.

(17) Procedures for posting of public advisories as specified in § 1542.305.

(18) Incident management procedures used to comply with § 1542.307.

(19) Alternate security procedures, if any, that the airport operator intends to use in the event of natural disasters, and other emergency or unusual conditions.

(20) Each exclusive area agreement as specified in § 1542.111.

(21) Each airport tenant security program as specified in § 1542.113.
