
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1542 - AIRPORT SECURITY
###### Subpart B - Airport Security Program
####### § 1542.111 Exclusive area agreements.

(a) TSA may approve an amendment to an airport security program under which an aircraft operator or foreign air carrier that has a security program under part 1544 or 1546 of this chapter assumes responsibility for specified security measures for all or portions of the secured area, AOA, or SIDA, including access points, as provided in § 1542.201, § 1542.203, or § 1542.205. The assumption of responsibility must be exclusive to one aircraft operator or foreign air carrier, and shared responsibility among aircraft operators or foreign air carriers is not permitted for an exclusive area.

(b) An exclusive area agreement must be in writing, signed by the airport operator and aircraft operator or foreign air carrier, and maintained in the airport security program. This agreement must contain the following:

(1) A description, a map, and, where appropriate, a diagram of the boundaries and pertinent features of each area, including individual access points, over which the aircraft operator or foreign air carrier will exercise exclusive security responsibility.

(2) A description of the measures used by the aircraft operator or foreign air carrier to comply with § 1542.201, § 1542.203, or § 1542.205, as appropriate.

(3) Procedures by which the aircraft operator or foreign air carrier will immediately notify the airport operator and provide for alternative security measures when there are changed conditions as described in § 1542.103(a).

(c) Any exclusive area agreements in effect on November 14, 2001, must meet the requirements of this section and § 1544.227 no later than November 14, 2002.
