
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1542 - AIRPORT SECURITY
###### Subpart B - Airport Security Program
####### ยง 1542.105 Approval and amendments.
######## Amendment by TSA.

(c)If safety and the public interest require an amendment, the designated official may amend a security program as follows:

(1) The designated official sends to the airport operator a notice, in writing, of the proposed amendment, fixing a period of not less than 30 days within which the airport operator may submit written information, views, and arguments on the amendment.

(2) After considering all relevant material, the designated official notifies the airport operator of any amendment adopted or rescinds the notice. If the amendment is adopted, it becomes effective not less than 30 days after the airport operator receives the notice of amendment, unless the airport operator petitions the Administrator to reconsider no later than 15 days before the effective date of the amendment. The airport operator must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official. A timely petition for reconsideration stays the effective date of the amendment.

(3) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either amends or withdraws the notice, or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator disposes of the petition within 30 days of receipt by either directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the amendment, or by affirming the amendment.
