
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1542 - AIRPORT SECURITY
###### Subpart B - Airport Security Program
####### ยง 1542.107 Changed conditions affecting security.

(a) After approval of the security program, each airport operator must notify TSA when changes have occurred to the-

(1) Measures, training, area descriptions, or staffing, described in the security program;

(2) Operations of an aircraft operator or foreign air carrier that would require modifications to the security program as required under ยง 1542.103; or

(3) Layout or physical structure of any area under the control of the airport operator, airport tenant, aircraft operator, or foreign air carrier used to support the screening process, access, presence, or movement control functions required under part 1542, 1544, or 1546 of this chapter.

(b) Each airport operator must notify TSA no more than 6 hours after the discovery of any changed condition described in paragraph (a) of this section, or within the time specified in its security program, of the discovery of any changed condition described in paragraph (a) of this section. The airport operator must inform TSA of each interim measure being taken to maintain adequate security until an appropriate amendment to the security program is approved. Each interim measure must be acceptable to TSA.

(c) For changed conditions expected to be less than 60 days duration, each airport operator must forward the information required in paragraph (b) of this section in writing to TSA within 72 hours of the original notification of the change condition(s). TSA will notify the airport operator of the disposition of the notification in writing. If approved by TSA, this written notification becomes a part of the airport security program for the duration of the changed condition(s).

(d) For changed conditions expected to be 60 days or more duration, each airport operator must forward the information required in paragraph (b) of this section in the form of a proposed amendment to the airport operator's security program, as required under ยง 1542.105. The request for an amendment must be made within 30 days of the discovery of the changed condition(s). TSA will respond to the request in accordance with ยง 1542.105.
