
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1542 - AIRPORT SECURITY
###### Subpart B - Airport Security Program
####### § 1542.113 Airport tenant security programs.

(a) TSA may approve an airport tenant security program as follows:

(1) The tenant must assume responsibility for specified security measures of the secured area, AOA, or SIDA as provided in §§ 1542.201, 1542.203, and 1542.205.

(2) The tenant may not assume responsibility for law enforcement support under § 1542.215.

(3) The tenant must assume the responsibility within the tenant's leased areas or areas designated for the tenant's exclusive use. A tenant may not assume responsibility under a tenant security program for the airport passenger terminal.

(4) Responsibility must be exclusive to one tenant, and shared responsibility among tenants is not permitted.

(5) TSA must find that the tenant is able and willing to carry out the airport tenant security program.

(b) An airport tenant security program must be in writing, signed by the airport operator and the airport tenant, and maintained in the airport security program. The airport tenant security program must include the following:

(1) A description and a map of the boundaries and pertinent features of each area over which the airport tenant will exercise security responsibilities.

(2) A description of the measures the airport tenant has assumed.

(3) Measures by which the airport operator will monitor and audit the tenant's compliance with the security program.

(4) Monetary and other penalties to which the tenant may be subject if it fails to carry out the airport tenant security program.

(5) Circumstances under which the airport operator will terminate the airport tenant security program for cause.

(6) A provision acknowledging that the tenant is subject to inspection by TSA in accordance with § 1542.5.

(7) A provision acknowledging that individuals who carry out the tenant security program are contracted to or acting for the airport operator and are required to protect sensitive information in accordance with part 1520 of this chapter, and may be subject to civil penalties for failing to protect sensitive security information.

(8) Procedures by which the tenant will immediately notify the airport operator of and provide for alternative security measures for changed conditions as described in § 1542.103(a).

(c) If TSA has approved an airport tenant security program, the airport operator may not be found to be in violation of a requirement of this part in any case in which the airport operator demonstrates that:

(1) The tenant or an employee, permittee, or invitee of the tenant, is responsible for such violation; and

(2) The airport operator has complied with all measures in its security program to ensure the tenant has complied with the airport tenant security program.

(d) TSA may amend or terminate an airport tenant security program in accordance with § 1542.105.
