
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1542 - AIRPORT SECURITY
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### § 1542.205 Security of the security identification display area (SIDA).

(a) Each airport operator required to have a complete program under § 1542.103(a) must establish at least one SIDA, as follows:

(1) Each secured area must be a SIDA.

(2) Each part of the air operations area that is regularly used to load cargo on, or unload cargo from, an aircraft that is operated under a full program or a full all-cargo program as provided in § 1544.101(a) or (h) of this chapter, or a foreign air carrier under a security program as provided in § 1546.101(a), (b), or (e), must be a SIDA.

(3) Each area on an airport where cargo is present after an aircraft operator operating under a full program or a full all-cargo program under § 1544.101(a) or (h) of this chapter, or a foreign air carrier operating under a security program under § 1546.101(a), (b), or (e) of this chapter, or an indirect air carrier, accepts it must be a SIDA. This includes areas such as: Cargo facilities; loading and unloading vehicle docks; and areas where an aircraft operator, foreign air carrier, or indirect air carrier sorts, stores, stages, consolidates, processes, screens, or transfers cargo.

(4) Other areas of the airport may be SIDAs.

(b) Each airport operator required to establish a SIDA must establish and carry out measures to prevent the unauthorized presence and movement of individuals in the SIDA and must do the following:

(1) Establish and carry out a personnel identification system described under § 1542.211.

(2) Subject each individual to a criminal history records check as described in § 1542.209 before authorizing unescorted access to the SIDA.

(3) Train each individual before granting unescorted access to the SIDA, as required in § 1542.213(b).

(c) An airport operator that is not required to have a complete program under § 1542.103(a) is not required to establish a SIDA under this section.
