
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1542 - AIRPORT SECURITY
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### ยง 1542.209 Fingerprint-based criminal history records checks (CHRC).
######## Determination of arrest status.

(g)(1) When a CHRC on an individual seeking unescorted access authority discloses an arrest for any disqualifying criminal offense listed in paragraph (d) of this section without indicating a disposition, the airport operator must determine, after investigation, that the arrest did not result in a disqualifying offense before granting that authority. If there is no disposition, or if the disposition did not result in a conviction or in a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity of one of the offenses listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the individual is not disqualified under this section.

(2) When a CHRC on an individual with unescorted access authority discloses an arrest for any disqualifying criminal offense without indicating a disposition, the airport operator must suspend the individual's unescorted access authority not later than 45 days after obtaining the CHRC unless the airport operator determines, after investigation, that the arrest did not result in a disqualifying criminal offense. If there is no disposition, or if the disposition did not result in a conviction or in a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity of one of the offenses listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the individual is not disqualified under this section.

(3) The airport operator may only make the determinations required in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section for individuals for whom it is issuing, or has issued, unescorted access authority, and who are not covered by a certification from an aircraft operator under paragraph (n) of this section. The airport operator may not make determinations for individuals described in ยง 1544.229 of this chapter.
