
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1542 - AIRPORT SECURITY
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### § 1542.211 Identification systems.
######## Personnel identification system.

(a)The personnel identification system under §§ 1542.201(b)(3) and 1542.205(b)(1) must include the following:

(1) Personnel identification media that-

(i) Convey a full-face image, full name, employer, and identification number of the individual to whom the identification medium is issued;

(ii) Indicate clearly the scope of the individual's access and movement privileges;

(iii) Indicate clearly an expiration date; and

(iv) Are of sufficient size and appearance as to be readily observable for challenge purposes.

(2) Procedures to ensure that each individual in the secured area or SIDA continuously displays the identification medium issued to that individual on the outermost garment above waist level, or is under escort.

(3) Procedures to ensure accountability through the following:

(i) Retrieving expired identification media and media of persons who no longer have unescorted access authority.

(ii) Reporting lost or stolen identification media.

(iii) Securing unissued identification media stock and supplies.

(iv) Auditing the system at a minimum of once a year or sooner, as necessary, to ensure the integrity and accountability of all identification media.

(v) As specified in the security program, revalidate the identification system or reissue identification media if a portion of all issued, unexpired identification media are lost, stolen, or otherwise unaccounted for, including identification media that are combined with access media.

(vi) Ensure that only one identification medium is issued to an individual at a time, except for personnel who are employed with more than one company and require additional identification media to carry out employment duties. A replacement identification medium may only be issued if an individual declares in writing that the medium has been lost, stolen, or destroyed.
