
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1542 - AIRPORT SECURITY
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### ยง 1542.219 Supplementing law enforcement personnel.

(a) When TSA decides, after being notified by an airport operator as prescribed in this section, that not enough qualified State, local, and private law enforcement personnel are available to carry out the requirements of ยง 1542.215, TSA may authorize the airport operator to use, on a reimbursable basis, personnel employed by TSA, or by another department, agency, or instrumentality of the Government with the consent of the head of the department, agency, or instrumentality to supplement State, local, and private law enforcement personnel.

(b) Each request for the use of Federal personnel must be submitted to TSA and include the following information:

(1) The number of passengers enplaned at the airport during the preceding calendar year and the current calendar year as of the date of the request.

(2) The anticipated risk of criminal violence, sabotage, aircraft piracy, and other unlawful interference to civil aviation operations.

(3) A copy of that portion of the security program which describes the law enforcement support necessary to comply with ยง 1542.215.

(4) The availability of law enforcement personnel who meet the requirements of ยง 1542.217, including a description of the airport operator's efforts to obtain law enforcement support from State, local, and private agencies and the responses of those agencies.

(5) The airport operator's estimate of the number of Federal personnel needed to supplement available law enforcement personnel and the period of time for which they are needed.

(6) A statement acknowledging responsibility for providing reimbursement for the cost of providing Federal personnel.

(7) Any other information TSA considers necessary.

(c) In response to a request submitted in accordance with this section, TSA may authorize, on a reimbursable basis, the use of personnel employed by a Federal agency, with the consent of the head of that agency.
