
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart B - Security Program
####### ยง 1544.105 Approval and amendments.
######## Initial approval of security program.

(a)Unless otherwise authorized by TSA, each aircraft operator required to have a security program under this part must submit its proposed security program to the designated official for approval at least 90 days before the intended date of operations. The proposed security program must meet the requirements applicable to its operation as described in ยง 1544.101. Such requests will be processed as follows:

(1) The designated official, within 30 days after receiving the proposed aircraft operator security program, will either approve the program or give the aircraft operator written notice to modify the program to comply with the applicable requirements of this part.

(2) The aircraft operator may either submit a modified security program to the designated official for approval, or petition the Administrator to reconsider the notice to modify within 30 days of receiving a notice to modify. A petition for reconsideration must be filed with the designated official.

(3) The designated official, upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, either amends or withdraws the notice, or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator disposes of the petition within 30 days of receipt by either directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the notice to modify, or by affirming the notice to modify.
