
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart B - Security Program
####### § 1544.103 Form, content, and availability.
######## Content.

(c)The security program must include, as specified for that aircraft operator in § 1544.101, the following:

(1) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.201 regarding the acceptance and screening of individuals and their accessible property, including, if applicable, the carriage weapons as part of State-required emergency equipment.

(2) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.203 regarding the acceptance and screening of checked baggage.

(3) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.205 regarding the acceptance and screening of cargo.

(4) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.207 regarding the screening of individuals and property.

(5) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.209 regarding the use of metal detection devices.

(6) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.211 regarding the use of x-ray systems.

(7) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.213 regarding the use of explosives detection systems.

(8) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.215 regarding the responsibilities of security coordinators. The names of the Aircraft Operator Security Coordinator (AOSC) and any alternate, and the means for contacting the AOSC(s) on a 24-hour basis, as provided in § 1544.215.

(9) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.217 regarding the requirements for law enforcement personnel.

(10) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.219 regarding carriage of accessible weapons.

(11) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.221 regarding carriage of prisoners under the control of armed law enforcement officers.

(12) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.223 regarding transportation of Federal Air Marshals.

(13) The procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used to perform the aircraft and facilities control function specified in § 1544.225.

(14) The specific locations where the air carrier has entered into an exclusive area agreement under § 1544.227.

(15) The procedures used to comply with the applicable requirements of §§ 1544.229 and 1544.230 regarding fingerprint-based criminal history records checks.

(16) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.231 regarding personnel identification systems.

(17) The procedures and syllabi used to accomplish the training required under § 1544.233.

(18) The procedures and syllabi used to accomplish the training required under § 1544.235.

(19) An aviation security contingency plan as specified under § 1544.301.

(20) The procedures used to comply with the requirements of § 1544.303 regarding bomb and air piracy threats.

(21) The procedures used to comply with § 1544.237 regarding flight deck privileges.

(22) The Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan (AOIP) as required under 49 CFR 1560.109.
