
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### ยง 1544.211 Use of X-ray systems.
######## Signs and inspection of photographic equipment and film.

(e)(1) At locations at which an aircraft operator uses an X-ray system to inspect accessible property the aircraft operator must ensure that a sign is posted in a conspicuous place at the screening checkpoint. At locations outside the United States at which a foreign government uses an X-ray system to inspect accessible property the aircraft operator must ensure that a sign is posted in a conspicuous place at the screening checkpoint.

(2) At locations at which an aircraft operator or TSA uses an X-ray system to inspect checked baggage the aircraft operator must ensure that a sign is posted in a conspicuous place where the aircraft operator accepts checked baggage.

(3) The signs required under this paragraph (e) must notify individuals that such items are being inspected by an X-ray and advise them to remove all X-ray, scientific, and high-speed film from accessible property and checked baggage before inspection. This sign must also advise individuals that they may request that an inspection be made of their photographic equipment and film packages without exposure to an X-ray system. If the X-ray system exposes any accessible property or checked baggage to more than one milliroentgen during the inspection, the sign must advise individuals to remove film of all kinds from their articles before inspection.

(4) If requested by individuals, their photographic equipment and film packages must be inspected without exposure to an X-ray system.
