
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### ยง 1544.229 Fingerprint-based criminal history records checks (CHRC): Unescorted access authority, authority to perform screening functions, and authority to perform checked baggage or cargo functions.
######## Determination of arrest status.

(g)(1) When a CHRC on an individual described in paragraph (a)(1) or (3) of this section discloses an arrest for any disqualifying criminal offense listed in paragraph (d) of this section without indicating a disposition, the aircraft operator must determine, after investigation, that the arrest did not result in a disqualifying offense before granting authority to perform a covered function. If there is no disposition, or if the disposition did not result in a conviction or in a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity of one of the offenses listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the individual is not disqualified under this section.

(2) When a CHRC on an individual described in paragraph (a)(2) or (4) of this section discloses an arrest for any disqualifying criminal offense without indicating a disposition, the aircraft operator must suspend the individual's authority to perform a covered function not later than 45 days after obtaining the CHRC unless the aircraft operator determines, after investigation, that the arrest did not result in a disqualifying criminal offense. If there is no disposition, or if the disposition did not result in a conviction or in a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity of one of the offenses listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the individual is not disqualified under this section.

(3) The aircraft operator may only make the determinations required in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section for individuals for whom it is issuing, or has issued, authority to perform a covered function; and individuals who are covered by a certification from an aircraft operator under ยง 1542.209(n) of this chapter. The aircraft operator may not make determinations for individuals described in ยง 1542.209(a) of this chapter.
