
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### ยง 1544.229 Fingerprint-based criminal history records checks (CHRC): Unescorted access authority, authority to perform screening functions, and authority to perform checked baggage or cargo functions.
######## Fingerprint application and processing.

(e)(1) At the time of fingerprinting, the aircraft operator must provide the individual to be fingerprinted a fingerprint application that includes only the following-

(i) The disqualifying criminal offenses described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(ii) A statement that the individual signing the application does not have a disqualifying criminal offense.

(iii) A statement informing the individual that Federal regulations under 49 CFR 1544.229 impose a continuing obligation to disclose to the aircraft operator within 24 hours if he or she is convicted of any disqualifying criminal offense that occurs while he or she has authority to perform a covered function.

(iv) A statement reading, "The information I have provided on this application is true, complete, and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and is provided in good faith. I understand that a knowing and willful false statement on this application can be punished by fine or imprisonment or both. (See section 1001 of Title 18 United States Code.)"

(v) A line for the printed name of the individual.

(vi) A line for the individual's signature and date of signature.

(2) Each individual must complete and sign the application prior to submitting his or her fingerprints.

(3) The aircraft operator must verify the identity of the individual through two forms of identification prior to fingerprinting, and ensure that the printed name on the fingerprint application is legible. At least one of the two forms of identification must have been issued by a government authority, and at least one must include a photo.

(4) The aircraft operator must:

(i) Advise the individual that a copy of the criminal record received from the FBI will be provided to the individual, if requested by the individual in writing; and

(ii) Identify a point of contact if the individual has questions about the results of the CHRC.

(5) The aircraft operator must collect, control, and process one set of legible and classifiable fingerprints under direct observation by the aircraft operator or a law enforcement officer.

(6) Fingerprints may be obtained and processed electronically, or recorded on fingerprint cards approved by the FBI and distributed by TSA for that purpose.

(7) The fingerprint submission must be forwarded to TSA in the manner specified by TSA.
