
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### ยง 1544.229 Fingerprint-based criminal history records checks (CHRC): Unescorted access authority, authority to perform screening functions, and authority to perform checked baggage or cargo functions.
######## Disqualifying criminal offenses.

(d)An individual has a disqualifying criminal offense if the individual has been convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of any of the disqualifying crimes listed in this paragraph in any jurisdiction during the 10 years before the date of the individual's application for authority to perform covered functions, or while the individual has authority to perform covered functions. The disqualifying criminal offenses are as follows:

(1) Forgery of certificates, false marking of aircraft, and other aircraft registration violation; 49 U.S.C. 46306.

(2) Interference with air navigation; 49 U.S.C. 46308.

(3) Improper transportation of a hazardous material; 49 U.S.C. 46312.

(4) Aircraft piracy; 49 U.S.C. 46502.

(5) Interference with flight crew members or flight attendants; 49 U.S.C. 46504.

(6) Commission of certain crimes aboard aircraft in flight; 49 U.S.C. 46506.

(7) Carrying a weapon or explosive aboard aircraft; 49 U.S.C. 46505.

(8) Conveying false information and threats; 49 U.S.C. 46507.

(9) Aircraft piracy outside the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States; 49 U.S.C. 46502(b).

(10) Lighting violations involving transporting controlled substances; 49 U.S.C. 46315.

(11) Unlawful entry into an aircraft or airport area that serves air carriers or foreign air carriers contrary to established security requirements; 49 U.S.C. 46314.

(12) Destruction of an aircraft or aircraft facility; 18 U.S.C. 32.

(13) Murder.

(14) Assault with intent to murder.

(15) Espionage.

(16) Sedition.

(17) Kidnapping or hostage taking.

(18) Treason.

(19) Rape or aggravated sexual abuse.

(20) Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon.

(21) Extortion.

(22) Armed or felony unarmed robbery.

(23) Distribution of, or intent to distribute, a controlled substance.

(24) Felony arson.

(25) Felony involving a threat.

(26) Felony involving-

(i) Willful destruction of property;

(ii) Importation or manufacture of a controlled substance;

(iii) Burglary;

(iv) Theft;

(v) Dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation;

(vi) Possession or distribution of stolen property;

(vii) Aggravated assault;

(viii) Bribery; or

(ix) Illegal possession of a controlled substance punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of more than 1 year.

(27) Violence at international airports; 18 U.S.C. 37.

(28) Conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the criminal acts listed in this paragraph (d).
