
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### § 1544.230 Fingerprint-based criminal history records checks (CHRC): Flightcrew members.
######## Determination of arrest status.

(d)(1) When a CHRC on an individual described in paragraph (a) of this section discloses an arrest for any disqualifying criminal offense listed in § 1544.229(d) without indicating a disposition, the aircraft operator must determine, after investigation, that the arrest did not result in a disqualifying offense before the individual may serve as a flightcrew member. If there is no disposition, or if the disposition did not result in a conviction or in a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity of one of the offenses listed in § 1544.229(d), the flight crewmember is not disqualified under this section.

(2) When a CHRC on an individual described in paragraph (a) of this section discloses an arrest for any disqualifying criminal offense listed in § 1544.229(d) without indicating a disposition, the aircraft operator must suspend the individual's flightcrew member privileges not later than 45 days after obtaining a CHRC, unless the aircraft operator determines, after investigation, that the arrest did not result in a disqualifying criminal offense. If there is no disposition, or if the disposition did not result in a conviction or in a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity of one of the offenses listed in § 1544.229(d), the flight crewmember is not disqualified under this section.

(3) The aircraft operator may only make the determinations required in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section for individuals whom it is using, or will use, as a flightcrew member. The aircraft operator may not make determinations for individuals described in § 1542.209(a) of this chapter.
