
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### ยง 1544.229 Fingerprint-based criminal history records checks (CHRC): Unescorted access authority, authority to perform screening functions, and authority to perform checked baggage or cargo functions.
######## Aircraft operator responsibility.

(m)The aircraft operator must-

(1) Designate an individual(s) to be responsible for maintaining and controlling the employment history investigations for those whom the aircraft operator has made a certification to an airport operator under 14 CFR 107.209(n) in effect prior to November 14, 2001 (see 14 CFR parts 60 to 139 revised as of January 1, 2001), and for those whom the aircraft operator has issued identification media that are airport-accepted. The aircraft operator must designate a direct employee to maintain, control, and, as appropriate, destroy criminal records.

(2) Designate an individual(s) to maintain the employment history investigations of individuals with authority to perform screening functions whose files must be maintained at the location or station where the screener is performing his or her duties.

(3) Designate an individual(s) at appropriate locations to serve as the contact to receive notification from individuals seeking authority to perform covered functions of their intent to seek correction of their FBI criminal record.

(4) Audit the employment history investigations performed in accordance with this section and 14 CFR 108.33 in effect prior to November 14, 2001 (see 14 CFR parts 60 to 139 revised as of January 1, 2001). The aircraft operator must set forth the audit procedures in its security program.
