
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart E - Screener Qualifications When the Aircraft Operator Performs Screening
####### § 1544.405 Qualifications of screening personnel.

(a) No individual subject to this subpart may perform a screening function unless that individual has the qualifications described in §§ 1544.405 through 1544.411. No aircraft operator may use such an individual to perform a screening function unless that person complies with the requirements of §§ 1544.405 through 1544.411.

(b) A screener must have a satisfactory or better score on a screener selection test administered by TSA.

(c) A screener must be a citizen of the United States.

(d) A screener must have a high school diploma, a General Equivalency Diploma, or a combination of education and experience that the TSA has determined to be sufficient for the individual to perform the duties of the position.

(e) A screener must have basic aptitudes and physical abilities including color perception, visual and aural acuity, physical coordination, and motor skills to the following standards:

(1) Screeners operating screening equipment must be able to distinguish on the screening equipment monitor the appropriate imaging standard specified in the aircraft operator's security program.

(2) Screeners operating any screening equipment must be able to distinguish each color displayed on every type of screening equipment and explain what each color signifies.

(3) Screeners must be able to hear and respond to the spoken voice and to audible alarms generated by screening equipment at an active screening location.

(4) Screeners who perform physical searches or other related operations must be able to efficiently and thoroughly manipulate and handle such baggage, containers, cargo, and other objects subject to screening.

(5) Screeners who perform pat-downs or hand-held metal detector searches of individuals must have sufficient dexterity and capability to thoroughly conduct those procedures over an individual's entire body.

(f) A screener must have the ability to read, speak, and write English well enough to-

(1) Carry out written and oral instructions regarding the proper performance of screening duties;

(2) Read English language identification media, credentials, airline tickets, documents, air waybills, invoices, and labels on items normally encountered in the screening process;

(3) Provide direction to and understand and answer questions from English-speaking individuals undergoing screening; and

(4) Write incident reports and statements and log entries into security records in the English language.

(g) At locations outside the United States where the aircraft operator has operational control over a screening function, the aircraft operator may use screeners who do not meet the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section, provided that at least one representative of the aircraft operator who has the ability to functionally read and speak English is present while the aircraft operator's passengers are undergoing security screening. At such locations the aircraft operator may use screeners who are not United States citizens.
