
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1544 - AIRCRAFT OPERATOR SECURITY: AIR CARRIERS AND COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
###### Subpart E - Screener Qualifications When the Aircraft Operator Performs Screening
####### ยง 1544.409 Integrity of screener tests.
######## Administering and monitoring screener tests.

(b)(1) Each aircraft operator must notify TSA of the time and location at which it will administer each screener readiness test required under ยง 1544.405(d).

(2) Either TSA or the aircraft operator must administer and monitor the screener readiness test. Where more than one aircraft operator or foreign air carrier uses a screening location, TSA may authorize an employee of one or more of the aircraft operators or foreign air carriers to monitor the test for a trainee who will screen at that location.

(3) If TSA or a representative of TSA is not available to administer and monitor a screener readiness test, the aircraft operator must provide a direct employee to administer and monitor the screener readiness test.

(4) An aircraft operator employee who administers and monitors a screener readiness test must not be an instructor, screener, screener-in-charge, checkpoint security supervisor, or other screening supervisor. The employee must be familiar with the procedures for administering and monitoring the test and must be capable of observing whether the trainee or others are engaging in cheating or other unauthorized conduct.
