
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1546 - FOREIGN AIR CARRIER SECURITY
###### Subpart B - Security Program
####### ยง 1546.105 Acceptance of and amendments to the security program.
######## Amendment requested by a foreign air carrier.

(b)A foreign air carrier may submit a request to TSA to amend its accepted security program as follows:

(1) The proposed amendment must be filed with the designated official at least 45 calendar days before the date it proposes for the amendment to become effective, unless a shorter period is allowed by the designated official.

(2) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a proposed amendment, the designated official, in writing, either approves or denies the request to amend.

(3) An amendment to a foreign air carrier security program may be approved if the designated official determines that safety and the public interest will allow it, and the proposed amendment provides the level of security required under this part.

(4) Within 45 calendar days after receiving a denial, the foreign air carrier may petition the Administrator to reconsider the denial. A petition for reconsideration must be filed with the designated official.

(5) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either approves the request to amend or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator disposes of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt by either directing the designated official to approve the amendment, or affirming the denial.

(6) Any foreign air carrier may submit a group proposal for an amendment that is on behalf of it and other aircraft operators that co-sign the proposal.
