
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1546 - FOREIGN AIR CARRIER SECURITY
###### Subpart B - Security Program
####### ยง 1546.105 Acceptance of and amendments to the security program.
######## Amendment by TSA.

(c)If the safety and the public interest require an amendment, the designated official may amend an accepted security program as follows:

(1) The designated official notifies the foreign air carrier, in writing, of the proposed amendment, fixing a period of not less than 45 calendar days within which the foreign air carrier may submit written information, views, and arguments on the amendment.

(2) After considering all relevant material, the designated official notifies the foreign air carrier of any amendment adopted or rescinds the notice. If the amendment is adopted, it becomes effective not less than 30 calendar days after the foreign air carrier receives the notice of amendment, unless the foreign air carrier petitions the Administrator to reconsider no later than 15 calendar days before the effective date of the amendment. The foreign air carrier must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official. A timely petition for reconsideration stays the effective date of the amendment.

(3) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either amends or withdraws the notice or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator disposes of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt by either directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the amendment, or by affirming the amendment.
