
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 92 - RECOVERING DEBTS TO THE UNITED STATES BY SALARY OFFSET
#### ยง 92.41 Requesting recovery when the Department is not the paying agency.
##### Employees who transfer from one paying agency to another.

(iii)If, after the DOT creditor operating element has submitted the debt claim to the employee's paying agency, the employee transfers to a position served by a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, the paying agency from which the employee separates shall certify the total amount of the collection made on the debt. One copy of the certification shall be furnished to the employee and another to the DOT operating element along with notice of the employee's transfer. The original of the debt claim form shall be inserted in the employee's official personnel folder along with a copy of the certification of the amount which has been collected. Upon receiving the official personnel folder, the new paying agency shall, in accordnce with the DOT operating element's properly certified claim, resume the collection from the employee's current pay account and notify the employee and the DOT creditor operating element of the resumption. The DOT operating element is not required to repeat the required collection procedures from the beginning in order to resume the collection. However, it shall be the responsibility of the DOT creditor operating element to review the debt upon receiving the former paying agency's notice of the employee's transfer to make sure the collection is resumed by the new paying agency.
