
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1548 - INDIRECT AIR CARRIER SECURITY
###### ยง 1548.7 Approval, amendment, annual renewal, and withdrawal of approval of the security program.
####### Original Application,Application.

(a)-(1)The applicant must apply for a security program in a form and a manner prescribed by TSA not less than 90 calendar days before the applicant intends to begin operations. The application must be in writing and include:

(i) The business name; other names, including doing business as; state of incorporation, if applicable; and tax identification number.

(ii) The applicant names, addresses, and dates of birth of each proprietor, general partner, officer, director, and owner identified under ยง 1548.16.

(iii) A signed statement from each person listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section stating whether he or she has been a proprietor, general partner, officer, director, or owner of an IAC that had its security program withdrawn by TSA.

(iv) Copies of government-issued identification of persons listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(v) Addresses of all business locations in the United States.

(vi) A statement declaring whether the business is a "'small business"' pursuant to section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).

(vii) A statement acknowledging and ensuring that each employee and agent of the indirect air carrier, who is subject to training under ยง 1548.11, will have successfully completed the training outlined in its security program before performing security-related duties.

(viii) Other information requested by TSA concerning Security Threat Assessments.

(ix) A statement acknowledging and ensuring that each employee and agent will successfully complete a Security Threat Assessment under ยง 1548.15 before authorizing the individual to have unescorted access to cargo.
