
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1548 - INDIRECT AIR CARRIER SECURITY
###### ยง 1548.7 Approval, amendment, annual renewal, and withdrawal of approval of the security program.
####### Amendment requested by an indirect air carrier or applicant.

(c)An indirect air carrier or applicant may file a request for an amendment to its security program with the TSA designated official at least 45 calendar days before the date it proposes for the amendment to become effective, unless the designated official allows a shorter period. Any indirect air carrier may submit a group proposal for an amendment that is on behalf of it and other indirect air carriers that co-sign the proposal.

(1) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a proposed amendment, the designated official, in writing, either approves or denies the request to amend.

(2) An amendment to an indirect air carrier security program may be approved, if the designated official determines that safety and the public interest will allow it, and if the proposed amendment provides the level of security required under this part.

(3) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a denial of the proposed amendment, the indirect air carrier may petition TSA to reconsider the denial. A petition for reconsideration must be filed with the designated official.

(4) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either approves the request to amend or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the TSA for reconsideration. TSA will dispose of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt by either directing the designated official to approve the amendment or by affirming the denial.
