
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1549 - CERTIFIED CARGO SCREENING PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 1549.7 Approval, amendment, renewal of the security program and certification of a certified cargo screening facility.
######## Initial application and approval.,Application.

(a)- (1)Unless otherwise authorized by TSA, each applicant must apply for a security program and for certification as a certified cargo screening facility at a particular location, in a form and a manner prescribed by TSA not less than 90 calendar days before the applicant intends to begin operations. TSA will only approve a facility to operate as a CCSF if it is located in the United States. The CCSF application must be in writing and include the following:

(i) The business name; other names, including doing business as; state of incorporation, if applicable; and tax identification number.

(ii) The name of the senior manager or representative of the applicant in control of the operations at the facility.

(iii) A signed statement from each person listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section stating whether he or she has been a senior manager or representative of a facility that had its security program withdrawn by TSA.

(iv) Copies of government-issued identification of persons listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(v) The street address of the facility where screening will be conducted.

(vi) A statement acknowledging and ensuring that each individual and agent of the applicant, who is subject to training under ยง 1549.11, will have successfully completed the training outlined in its security program before performing security-related duties.

(vii) Other information requested by TSA concerning Security Threat Assessments.

(viii) A statement acknowledging and ensuring that each individual will successfully complete a Security Threat Assessment under ยง 1549.111 before the applicant authorizes the individual to have unescorted access to screened cargo or to screen or supervise the screening of cargo.
