
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1549 - CERTIFIED CARGO SCREENING PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 1549.7 Approval, amendment, renewal of the security program and certification of a certified cargo screening facility.
######## Amendment by TSA.

(d)TSA may amend a security program in the interest of safety and the public interest, as follows:

(1) TSA notifies the certified cargo screening facility, in writing, of the proposed amendment, fixing a period of not less than 30 calendar days within which the certified cargo screening facility may submit written information, views, and arguments on the amendment.

(2) After considering all relevant material, the designated official notifies the certified cargo screening facility of any amendment adopted or rescinds the notice of amendment. If the amendment is adopted, it becomes effective not less than 30 calendar days after the certified cargo screening facility receives the notice of amendment, unless the certified cargo screening facility disagrees with the proposed amendment and petitions the TSA to reconsider, no later than 15 calendar days before the effective date of the amendment. The certified cargo screening facility must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official. A timely Petition for Reconsideration stays the effective date of the amendment.

(3) Upon receipt of a Petition for Reconsideration, the designated official either amends or withdraws the notice of amendment, or transmits the Petition, together with any pertinent information, to TSA for reconsideration. TSA disposes of the Petition within 30 calendar days of receipt, either by directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the notice of amendment, or by affirming the notice of amendment.
