
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1549 - CERTIFIED CARGO SCREENING PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 1549.7 Approval, amendment, renewal of the security program and certification of a certified cargo screening facility.
######## Amendment requested by a certified cargo screening entity or applicant.

(c)A certified cargo screening facility or applicant may file a request for an amendment to its security program with the TSA designated official at least 45 calendar days before the date it proposes for the amendment to become effective, unless the designated official allows a shorter period. Any certified cargo screening facility may submit to TSA a group proposal for an amendment that is on behalf of it and other certified cargo screening facilities that co-sign the proposal.

(1) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a proposed amendment, the designated official, in writing, either approves or denies the request to amend.

(2) TSA may approve an amendment to a certified cargo screening facility's security program, if the TSA designated official determines that safety and the public interest will allow it, and if the proposed amendment provides the level of security required under this part.

(3) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a denial of the proposed amendment, the certified cargo screening facility may petition TSA to reconsider the denial. The CCSF must file the Petition for Reconsideration with the designated official.

(4) Upon receipt of a Petition for Reconsideration, the designated official either approves the request to amend or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to TSA for reconsideration. TSA will dispose of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt by either directing the designated official to approve the amendment or by affirming the denial.
