
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1549 - CERTIFIED CARGO SCREENING PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 1549.7 Approval, amendment, renewal of the security program and certification of a certified cargo screening facility.
######## Renewal Application.

(b)Upon timely submittal of an application for renewal, and unless and until TSA denies the application, the certified cargo screening facility's approved security program remains in effect.

(1) Unless otherwise authorized by TSA, each certified cargo screening facility must timely submit to TSA, at least 30 calendar days prior to the first day of the 36th anniversary month of initial approval of its security program, an application for renewal of its security program in a form and a manner approved by TSA.

(2) The certified cargo screening facility must demonstrate that it has successfully undergone a revalidation of its operations by TSA prior to the first day of the 36th anniversary month of initial approval of its security program.

(3) The application for renewal must be in writing and include a signed statement that the certified cargo screening facility has reviewed and ensures the continuing accuracy of the contents of its initial application for a security program, subsequent renewal applications, or other submissions to TSA confirming a change of information and noting the date such applications and submissions were sent to TSA, including the following certification:

(4) TSA will renew approval of the security program if TSA determines that-

(i) The CCSF has met the requirements of this chapter, its security program, and any Security Directive; and

(ii) The renewal of its security program is not contrary to the interests of security and the public interest.

(5) If TSA determines that the certified cargo screening facility meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, it will renew the certified cargo screening facility's security program and certification. The security program and certification will remain effective until the end of the calendar month three years after the month it was renewed.
