
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1549 - CERTIFIED CARGO SCREENING PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Operations
####### ยง 1549.109 Security Directives and Information Circulars.

(a) TSA may issue an Information Circular to notify certified cargo screening facilities of security concerns.

(b) When TSA determines that additional security measures are necessary to respond to a threat assessment, or to a specific threat against civil aviation, TSA issues a Security Directive setting forth mandatory measures.

(1) Each certified cargo screening facility must comply with each Security Directive that TSA issues to it, within the time prescribed in the Security Directive for compliance.

(2) Each certified cargo screening facility that receives a Security Directive must comply with the following:

(i) Within the time prescribed in the Security Directive, acknowledge in writing receipt of the Security Directive to TSA.

(ii) Within the time prescribed in the Security Directive, specify the method by which the measures in the Security Directive have been implemented (or will be implemented, if the Security Directive is not yet effective).

(3) In the event that the certified cargo screening facility is unable to implement the measures in the Security Directive, the certified cargo screening facility must submit proposed alternative measures and the basis for submitting the alternative measures to TSA for approval.

(i) The certified cargo screening facility must submit the proposed alternative measures within the time prescribed in the Security Directive.

(ii) The certified cargo screening facility must implement any alternative measures approved by TSA.

(4) Each certified cargo screening facility that receives a Security Directive may comment on it by submitting data, views, or arguments in writing to TSA.

(i) TSA may amend the Security Directive based on comments received.

(ii) Submission of a comment does not delay the effective date of the Security Directive.

(5) Each certified cargo screening facility that receives a Security Directive or Information Circular, and each person who receives information from a Security Directive or Information Circular, must-

(i) Restrict the availability of the Security Directive or Information Circular, and information contained in either document, to those persons with a need-to-know; and

(ii) Refuse to release the Security Directive or Information Circular, and information contained in either document, to persons other than those with a need-to-know without the prior written consent of TSA.
