
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1549 - CERTIFIED CARGO SCREENING PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Operations
####### ยง 1549.103 Qualifications and training of individuals with security-related duties.
######## Screener qualifications.

(d)Each certified cargo screening facility must ensure that each individual who screens cargo or who supervises cargo screening-

(1) Is a citizen or national of the United States, or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence;

(2) Has a high school diploma, a General Equivalency Diploma, or a combination of education and experience that the certified cargo screening facility has determined to have equipped the person to perform the duties of the position;

(3) Has basic aptitudes and physical abilities including color perception, visual and aural acuity, physical coordination, and motor skills to the extent required to effectively operate cargo screening technologies that the facility is authorized to use. These include:

(i) The ability to operate x-ray equipment and to distinguish on the x-ray monitor the appropriate imaging standard specified in the certified cargo screening facility security program. Wherever the x-ray system displays colors, the operator must be able to perceive each color.

(ii) The ability to distinguish each color displayed on every type of screening equipment and explain what each color signifies.

(iii) The ability to hear and respond to the spoken voice and to audible alarms generated by screening equipment.

(4) Has the ability to read, write and understand English well enough to carry out written and oral instructions regarding the proper performance of screening duties or be under the direct supervision of someone who has this ability, including reading labels and shipping papers, and writing log entries into security records in English.
