
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1552 - FLIGHT SCHOOLS
###### Subpart A - Flight Training for Aliens and Other Designated Individuals
####### ยง 1552.3 Flight training.
######## Recordkeeping requirements.

(i)A flight school must-

(1) Maintain the following information for a minimum of 5 years:

(i) For each candidate:

(A) A copy of the photograph required under paragraph (a)(3), (b)(1)(iii), (c)(3), or (d)(2)(viii) of this section; and

(B) A copy of the approval sent by TSA confirming the candidate's eligibility for flight training.

(ii) For a Category 1, Category 2, or Category 3 candidate, a copy of the information required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, except the information in paragraph (a)(2)(x).

(iii) For a Category 4 candidate, a copy of the information required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(iv) For an individual who is a United States citizen or national, a copy of the information required under paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(v) For an individual who has been endorsed by the U.S. Department of Defense for flight training, a copy of the information required under paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(vi) A record of all fees paid to TSA in accordance with this part.

(2) Permit TSA and the Federal Aviation Administration to inspect the records required by paragraph (i)(1) of this section during reasonable business hours.
