
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1552 - FLIGHT SCHOOLS
###### Subpart B - Flight School Security Awareness Training
####### ยง 1552.23 Security awareness training programs.
######## Alternative initial security awareness training program.

(c)At a minimum, an alternative initial security awareness training program must-

(1) Require active participation by the flight school employee receiving the training.

(2) Provide situational scenarios requiring the flight school employee receiving the training to assess specific situations and determine appropriate courses of action.

(3) Contain information that enables a flight school employee to identify-

(i) Uniforms and other identification, if any are required at the flight school, for flight school employees or other persons authorized to be on the flight school grounds.

(ii) Behavior by clients and customers that may be considered suspicious, including, but not limited to:

(A) Excessive or unusual interest in restricted airspace or restricted ground structures;

(B) Unusual questions or interest regarding aircraft capabilities;

(C) Aeronautical knowledge inconsistent with the client or customer's existing airman credentialing; and

(D) Sudden termination of the client or customer's instruction.

(iii) Behavior by other on-site persons that may be considered suspicious, including, but not limited to:

(A) Loitering on the flight school grounds for extended periods of time; and

(B) Entering "authorized access only" areas without permission.

(iv) Circumstances regarding aircraft that may be considered suspicious, including, but not limited to:

(A) Unusual modifications to aircraft, such as the strengthening of landing gear, changes to the tail number, or stripping of the aircraft of seating or equipment;

(B) Damage to propeller locks or other parts of an aircraft that is inconsistent with the pilot training or aircraft flight log; and

(C) Dangerous or hazardous cargo loaded into an aircraft.

(v) Appropriate responses for the employee to specific situations, including:

(A) Taking no action, if a situation does not warrant action;

(B) Questioning an individual, if his or her behavior may be considered suspicious;

(C) Informing a supervisor, if a situation or an individual's behavior warrants further investigation;

(D) Calling the TSA General Aviation Hotline; or

(E) Calling local law enforcement, if a situation or an individual's behavior could pose an immediate threat.

(vi) Any other information relevant to security measures or procedures at the flight school, including applicable information in the TSA Information Publication "Security Guidelines for General Aviation Airports".
