
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1554 - AIRCRAFT REPAIR STATION SECURITY
###### Subpart C - Compliance and Enforcement
####### ยง 1554.203 Immediate risk to security; revocation of certificate and review process.
######## Service of documents.

(d)Service may be accomplished by personal delivery, certified mail, or express courier. Documents served on a repair station will be served at its official place of business. Documents served on TSA must be served at the address contained in the written notice of revocation.

(1) A certificate of service may be attached to a document tendered for filing. A certificate of service must consist of a statement, dated and signed by the person filing the document, that the document was personally delivered, served by certified mail on a specific date, or served by express courier on a specific date.

(2) The date of service is-

(i) The date of personal delivery;

(ii) If served by certified mail, the mailing date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or other mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark; or

(iii) If served by express courier, the service date shown on the certificate of service, or by other evidence if there is no certificate of service.
