
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1562 - OPERATIONS IN THE WASHINGTON, DC, METROPOLITAN AREA
###### Subpart A - Maryland Three Airports: Enhanced Security Procedures for Operations at Certain Airports in the Washington, DC, Metropolitan Area Flight Restricted Zone
####### ยง 1562.3 Operating requirements.
######## Pilot requirements for TSA approval.

(e)Except as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, each pilot of an aircraft operating to or from any of the Maryland Three Airports must be approved by TSA. To obtain TSA approval, a pilot must:

(1) Present to TSA-

(i) The pilot's name;

(ii) The pilot's Social Security Number;

(iii) The pilot's date of birth;

(iv) The pilot's address;

(v) The pilot's phone number;

(vi) The pilot's current and valid airman certificate or current student pilot certificate;

(vii) The pilot's current medical certificate;

(viii) One form of Government-issued picture identification of the pilot;

(ix) The pilot's fingerprints, in a form and manner acceptable to TSA; and

(x) A list containing the make, model, and registration number of each aircraft that the pilot intends to operate to or from the airport.

(2) Successfully complete a TSA terrorist threat assessment.

(3) Receive a briefing acceptable to TSA and the Federal Aviation Administration that describes procedures for operating to and from the airport.

(4) Not have been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity, in any jurisdiction, during the 10 years prior to applying for authorization to operate to or from the airport, or while authorized to operate to or from the airport, of any crime specified in 49 CFR 1542.209 or 1572.103.

(5) Not, in TSA's discretion, have a record on file with the Federal Aviation Administration of a violation of-

(i) A prohibited area designated under 14 CFR part 73;

(ii) A flight restriction established under 14 CFR 91.141;

(iii) Special security instructions issued under 14 CFR 99.7;

(iv) A restricted area designated under 14 CFR part 73;

(v) Emergency air traffic rules issued under 14 CFR 91.139;

(vi) A temporary flight restriction designated under 14 CFR 91.137, 91.138, or 91.145; or

(vii) An area designated under 14 CFR 91.143.
