
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1562 - OPERATIONS IN THE WASHINGTON, DC, METROPOLITAN AREA
###### Subpart B - Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport: Enhanced Security Procedures for Certain Operations
####### § 1562.23 Aircraft operator and passenger requirements.
######## Security coordinator.

(b)Each security coordinator designated by an aircraft operator under paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) Must undergo a fingerprint-based criminal history records check that does not disclose that he or she has a disqualifying criminal offense as described in § 1544.229(d) of this chapter. This standard is met if the security coordinator is in compliance with the fingerprint-based criminal history records check requirements of §§ 1542.209, 1544.229, or 1544.230 of this chapter with his or her current employer.

(2) Must submit to TSA his or her:

(i) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix, and any other names used.

(ii) Current mailing address, including residential address if different than current mailing address.

(iii) Date and place of birth.

(iv) Social security number, (submission is voluntary, although recommended).

(v) Citizenship status and date of naturalization if the individual is a naturalized citizen of the United States.

(vi) Alien registration number, if applicable.

(3) Must successfully complete a TSA security threat assessment.

(4) May, if informed that a disqualifying offense has been disclosed, correct the record in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (h) and (i) of § 1544.229 of this chapter regarding notification and correction of records.
