
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1562 - OPERATIONS IN THE WASHINGTON, DC, METROPOLITAN AREA
###### Subpart B - Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport: Enhanced Security Procedures for Certain Operations
####### ยง 1562.23 Aircraft operator and passenger requirements.
######## Operating requirements.

(e)Each aircraft operator must:

(1) Ensure that each flight into DCA departs from a gateway airport and makes no intermediate stops before arrival at DCA.

(2) Ensure that each passenger and crewmember on an aircraft operating into or out of DCA has been screened in accordance with the DASSP prior to boarding the aircraft.

(3) Ensure that all accessible property and property in inaccessible cargo holds on an aircraft operating into or out of DCA has been screened in accordance with the DASSP prior to boarding the aircraft.

(4) Ensure that each aircraft operating into or out of DCA has been searched in accordance with the DASSP.

(5) Ensure that each passenger and crewmember on an aircraft operating into or out of DCA provides TSA with a valid government-issued picture identification in accordance with the DASSP.

(6) If the aircraft operating into or out of DCA is equipped with a cockpit door, ensure that the door is closed and locked at all times during the operation of the aircraft to or from DCA, unless Federal Aviation Administration regulations require the door to remain open.

(7) Ensure that each aircraft operating into or out of DCA has onboard at least one armed security officer who meets the requirements of ยง 1562.29 of this chapter. This requirement does not apply if-

(i) There is a Federal Air Marshal onboard; or

(ii) The aircraft is being flown without passengers into DCA to pick up passengers, or out of DCA after deplaning all passengers.

(8) Ensure that an aircraft operating into or out of DCA has any Federal Air Marshal onboard, at no cost to the Federal Government, if TSA or the Federal Air Marshal Service so requires.

(9) Notify the National Capital Region Coordination Center prior to departure of the aircraft from DCA or a gateway airport.

(10) Ensure that each aircraft operating into or out of DCA operates under instrument flight rules.

(11) Ensure that each passenger complies with any security measures mandated by TSA.

(12) Ensure that no prohibited items are onboard the aircraft.
