
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1562 - OPERATIONS IN THE WASHINGTON, DC, METROPOLITAN AREA
###### Subpart B - Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport: Enhanced Security Procedures for Certain Operations
####### ยง 1562.23 Aircraft operator and passenger requirements.
######## General.

(a)To operate into or out of DCA, an aircraft operator must:

(1) Designate a security coordinator responsible for implementing the DASSP and other security requirements required under this section, and provide TSA with the security coordinator's contact information and availability in accordance with the DASSP.

(2) Adopt and carry out the DASSP.

(3) Ensure that each crewmember of an aircraft operating into or out of DCA meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) Apply for and receive a reservation from the Federal Aviation Administration and authorization from TSA for each flight into and out of DCA in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(5) Comply with the operating requirements in paragraph (e) of this section for each flight into and out of DCA.

(6) Pay any costs and fees required under this part.

(7) Restrict the distribution, disclosure, and availability of sensitive security information (SSI), as defined in part 1520 of this chapter, to persons with a need to know, and refer all requests for SSI by other persons to TSA.

(8) Comply with any additional security procedures required by TSA through order, Security Directive, or other means.
