
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1562 - OPERATIONS IN THE WASHINGTON, DC, METROPOLITAN AREA
###### Subpart B - Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport: Enhanced Security Procedures for Certain Operations
####### ยง 1562.23 Aircraft operator and passenger requirements.
######## Flight authorization requirements.

(d)To receive authorization to operate an aircraft into or out of DCA, an aircraft operator must follow the procedures in this paragraph.

(1) The aircraft operator must apply to the Federal Aviation Administration for a tentative reservation, in a form and manner approved by the Federal Aviation Administration.

(2) The aircraft operator must submit to TSA, in a form and manner approved by TSA, the following information at least 24 hours prior to aircraft departure:

(i) For each passenger and crewmember on the aircraft:

(A) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix, and any other names used.

(B) Current mailing address, including residential address if different than current mailing address.

(C) Date and place of birth.

(D) Social security number, (submission is voluntary, although recommended).

(E) Citizenship status and date of naturalization if the individual is a naturalized citizen of the United States.

(F) Alien registration number, if applicable.

(ii) The registration number of the aircraft.

(iii) The flight plan.

(iv) Any other information required by TSA.

(3) TSA will conduct a name-based security threat assessment for each passenger and crewmember. If TSA notifies the aircraft operator that a passenger or crewmember may pose a security threat, the aircraft operator must ensure that the passenger or crewmember does not board the aircraft before the aircraft departs out of DCA or out of a gateway airport to DCA.

(4) If TSA approves the flight, TSA will transmit such approval to the Federal Aviation Administration for assignment of a final reservation to operate into or out of DCA. Once the Federal Aviation Administration assigns the final reservation, TSA will notify the aircraft operator.

(5) TSA may, at its discretion, cancel any or all flight approvals at any time without prior notice to the aircraft operator.

(6) TSA may, at its discretion, permit a flight into or out of DCA to deviate from the requirements of this subpart, if TSA finds that such action would not be detrimental to transportation security or the safe operation of the aircraft.

(7) TSA may, at its discretion, require any flight into or out of DCA under this subpart to comply with additional security measures.
