
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter C - Civil Aviation Security
##### PART 1562 - OPERATIONS IN THE WASHINGTON, DC, METROPOLITAN AREA
###### Subpart B - Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport: Enhanced Security Procedures for Certain Operations
####### ยง 1562.29 Armed security officer requirements.
######## Threat assessments.

(c)To be authorized under this section, each armed security officer:

(1) Must undergo a fingerprint-based criminal history records check that does not disclose that he or she has a criminal offense that would disqualify him or her from possessing a firearm under 18 U.S.C. 922(g).

(2) May, if informed that a disqualifying offense has been disclosed, correct the record in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs (h) and (i) of ยง 1544.229 of this chapter regarding notification and correction of records.

(3) Must submit to TSA his or her:

(i) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix, and any other names used.

(ii) Current mailing address, including residential address if different than current mailing address.

(iii) Date and place of birth.

(iv) Social security number, (submission is voluntary, although recommended).

(v) Citizenship status and date of naturalization if the individual is a naturalized citizen of the United States.

(vi) Alien registration number, if applicable.

(4) Must undergo a threat assessment by TSA prior to receiving authorization under this section and prior to boarding an aircraft operating into or out of DCA as provided in ยง 1562.23(d)(1) of this part.
