
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1570 - GENERAL RULES
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 1570.9 Compliance, inspection, and enforcement.

(a) Each person subject to any of the requirements of this subchapter, must allow TSA and other authorized DHS officials, at any time and in a reasonable manner, without advance notice, to enter, assess, inspect, and test property, facilities, equipment, and operations; and to view, inspect, and copy records, as necessary to carry out TSA's security-related statutory or regulatory authorities, including its authority to-

(1) Assess threats to transportation.

(2) Enforce security-related laws, regulations, directives, and requirements.

(3) Inspect, maintain, and test the security of facilities, equipment, and systems.

(4) Ensure the adequacy of security measures for the transportation of passengers and cargo.

(5) Oversee the implementation, and ensure the adequacy, of security measures for the owner/operator's conveyances and vehicles, at transportation facilities and infrastructure and other assets related to transportation.

(6) Review security plans and/or programs.

(7) Determine compliance with any requirements in this chapter.

(8) Carry out such other duties, and exercise such other powers, relating to transportation security, as the Administrator for TSA considers appropriate, to the extent authorized by law.

(b) At the request of TSA, each owner/operator subject to the requirements of this subchapter must provide evidence of compliance with this chapter, including copies of records.

(c) TSA and other authorized DHS officials, may enter, without advance notice, and be present within any area or within any vehicle or conveyance, terminal, or other facility covered by this chapter without access media or identification media issued or approved by an owner/operator covered by this chapter in order to inspect or test compliance, or perform other such duties as TSA may direct.

(d) TSA inspectors and other authorized DHS officials working with TSA will, on request, present their credentials for examination, but the credentials may not be photocopied or otherwise reproduced.
