
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1570 - GENERAL RULES
###### Subpart B - Security Programs
####### ยง 1570.117 Alternative measures.

(a) If in TSA's judgment, the overall security of transportation provided by an owner/operator subject to the requirements of 49 CFR part 1580, 1582, or 1584 are not diminished, TSA may approve alternative measures.

(b) Each owner/operator requesting alternative measures must file the request for approval in a form and manner prescribed by TSA. The filing of such a request does not affect the owner/operator's responsibility for compliance while the request is being considered.

(c) TSA may request additional information, and the owner/operator must provide the information within the time period TSA prescribes. Within 30 calendar days after receiving a request for alternative measures and all requested information, TSA will, in writing, either approve or deny the request.

(d) If TSA finds that the use of the alternative measures is in the interest of the public and transportation security, it may grant the request subject to any conditions TSA deems necessary. In considering the request for alternative measures, TSA will review all relevant factors including-

(1) The risks associated with the type of operation, for example, whether the owner/operator transports hazardous materials or passengers within a high threat urban area, whether the owner/operator transports passengers and the volume of passengers transported, or whether the owner/operator hosts a passenger operation.

(2) Any relevant threat information.

(3) Other circumstances concerning potential risk to the public and transportation security.

(e) No later than 30 calendar days after receiving a denial, the owner/operator may petition for reconsideration under ยง 1570.119 of this part.
