
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1570 - GENERAL RULES
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### § 1570.201 Security Coordinator.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each owner/operator identified in §§ 1580.1, 1582.1, and 1584.101 of this subchapter must designate and use a primary and at least one alternate Security Coordinator.

(b) An owner/operator identified in § 1582.1(a)(2) of this subchapter (public transportation agency) that owns or operates a bus-only operation must designate and use a primary and at least one alternate Security Coordinator only if the owner/operator is identified in appendix A to part 1582 of this subchapter or is notified by TSA in writing that a threat exists concerning that operation.

(c) An owner/operator identified in § 1580.1(a)(5) or § 1582.1(a)(4) of this subchapter (private rail car, tourist, scenic, historic, or excursion rail operations) must designate and use a primary and at least one alternate Security Coordinator, only if notified by TSA in writing that a threat exists concerning that type of operation.

(d) The Security Coordinator and alternate(s) must be appointed at the corporate level.

(e) Each owner/operator required to have a Security Coordinator must provide in writing to TSA the names, U.S. citizenship status, titles, phone number(s), and email address(es) of the Security Coordinator and alternate Security Coordinator(s) within 37 calendar days of the effective date of this rule, commencement of operations, or change in any of the information required by this section.

(f) Each owner/operator required to have a Security Coordinator must ensure that at least one Security Coordinator-

(1) Serves as the primary contact for intelligence information and security-related activities and communications with TSA. Any individual designated as a Security Coordinator may perform other duties in addition to the duties described in this section.

(2) Is accessible to TSA on a 24 hours a day, 7 days a week basis.

(3) Coordinates security practices and procedures internally and with appropriate law enforcement and emergency response agencies.
