
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1570 - GENERAL RULES
###### Subpart C - Operations
####### § 1570.203 Reporting significant security concerns.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each owner/operator identified in §§ 1580.1, 1582.1, and 1584.101 of this subchapter must report, within 24 hours of initial discovery, any potential threats and significant security concerns involving transportation-related operations in the United States or transportation to, from, or within the United States as soon as possible by the methods prescribed by TSA.

(2) An owner/operator identified in § 1582.1(a)(2) of this subchapter (public transportation agency) that owns or operates a bus-only operation must only comply with the requirements in this section if the owner/operator is identified in appendix A to part 1582 of this subchapter or is notified by TSA in writing that a threat exists concerning that operation.

(b) Potential threats or significant security concerns encompass incidents, suspicious activities, and threat information including, but not limited to, the categories of reportable events listed in appendix A to this part.

(c) Information reported must include the following, as available and applicable:

(1) The name of the reporting individual and contact information, including a telephone number or email address.

(2) The affected freight or passenger train, transit vehicle, motor vehicle, station, terminal, rail hazardous materials facility, or other facility or infrastructure, including identifying information and current location.

(3) Scheduled origination and termination locations for the affected freight or passenger train, transit vehicle, or motor vehicle-including departure and destination city and route.

(4) Description of the threat, incident, or activity, including who has been notified and what action has been taken.

(5) The names, other available biographical data, and/or descriptions (including vehicle or license plate information) of individuals or motor vehicles known or suspected to be involved in the threat, incident, or activity.

(6) The source of any threat information.
