
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1572 - CREDENTIALING AND SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS
###### Subpart A - Procedures and General Standards
####### ยง 1572.9 Applicant information required for HME security threat assessment.

An applicant must supply the information required in this section, in a form acceptable to TSA, when applying to obtain or renew an HME. When applying to transfer an HME from one State to another, 49 CFR 1572.13(e) applies.

(a) Except as provided in (a)(12) through (16), the applicant must provide the following identifying information:

(1) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix; and any other name used previously.

(2) Current and previous mailing address, current residential address if it differs from the current mailing address, and e-mail address if available. If the applicant prefers to receive correspondence and notification via e-mail, the applicant should so state.

(3) Date of birth.

(4) Gender.

(5) Height, weight, hair color, and eye color.

(6) City, state, and country of birth.

(7) Immigration status and, if the applicant is a naturalized citizen of the United States, the date of naturalization.

(8) Alien registration number, if applicable.

(9) The State of application, CDL number, and type of HME(s) held.

(10) Name, telephone number, facsimile number, and address of the applicant's current employer(s), if the applicant's work for the employer(s) requires an HME. If the applicant's current employer is the U.S. military service, include branch of the service.

(11) Whether the applicant is applying to obtain, renew, or transfer an HME or for a waiver.

(12) Social security number. Providing the social security number is voluntary; however, failure to provide it will delay and may prevent completion of the threat assessment.

(13) Passport number. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who are U.S. citizens born abroad.

(14) Department of State Consular Report of Birth Abroad. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who are U.S. citizens born abroad.

(15) Whether the applicant has previously completed a TSA threat assessment, and if so the date and program for which it was completed. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who have completed a TSA security threat assessment.

(16) Whether the applicant currently holds a federal security clearance, and if so, the date of and agency for which the clearance was performed. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who have completed a federal security threat assessment.

(b) The applicant must provide a statement, signature, and date of signature that he or she-

(1) Was not convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying crime listed in 49 CFR 1572.103(b), in a civilian or military jurisdiction, during the seven years before the date of the application, or is applying for a waiver;

(2) Was not released from incarceration, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for committing a disqualifying crime listed in 49 CFR 1572.103(b), during the five years before the date of the application, or is applying for a waiver;

(3) Is not wanted, or under indictment, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103, or is applying for a waiver;

(4) Was not convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103(a), in a civilian or military jurisdiction, or is applying for a waiver;

(5) Has not been adjudicated as lacking mental capacity or committed to a mental health facility involuntarily or is applying for a waiver;

(6) Meets the immigration status requirements described in 49 CFR 1572.105;

(7) Has or has not served in the military, and if so, the branch in which he or she served, the date of discharge, and the type of discharge; and

(8) Has been informed that Federal regulations, under 49 CFR 1572.11, impose a continuing obligation on the HME holder to disclose to the State if he or she is convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying crime, adjudicated as lacking mental capacity, or committed to a mental health facility.

(c) The applicant must certify and date receipt the following statement:

(d) The applicant must certify and date receipt the following statement, immediately before the signature line:

(e) The applicant must certify the following statement in writing:
