
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1572 - CREDENTIALING AND SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS
###### Subpart A - Procedures and General Standards
####### ยง 1572.5 Standards for security threat assessments.
######## Comparability of Other Security Threat Assessment Standards.

(e)TSA may determine that security threat assessments conducted by other governmental agencies are comparable to the threat assessment described in this part, which TSA conducts for HME and TWIC applicants.

(1) In making a comparability determination, TSA will consider-

(i) The minimum standards used for the security threat assessment;

(ii) The frequency of the threat assessment;

(iii) The date of the most recent threat assessment; and

(iv) Whether the threat assessment includes biometric identification and a biometric credential.

(2) To apply for a comparability determination, the agency seeking the determination must contact the Assistant Program Manager, Attn: Federal Agency Comparability Check, Hazmat Threat Assessment Program, Transportation Security Administration, 601 South 12th Street, Arlington, VA 20598-6019.

(3) TSA will notify the public when a comparability determination is made.

(4) An applicant, who has completed a security threat assessment that is determined to be comparable under this section to the threat assessment described in this part, must complete the enrollment process and provide biometric information to obtain a TWIC, if the applicant seeks unescorted access to a secure area of a vessel or facility. The applicant must pay the fee listed in 49 CFR 1572.503 for information collection/credential issuance.

(5) TSA has determined that the security threat assessment for an HME under this part is comparable to the security threat assessment for TWIC.

(6) TSA has determined that the security threat assessment for a FAST card, under the Free and Secure Trade program administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, is comparable to the security threat assessment described in this part.
