
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1572 - CREDENTIALING AND SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS
###### Subpart A - Procedures and General Standards
####### ยง 1572.17 Applicant information required for TWIC security threat assessment.

An applicant must supply the information required in this section, in a form acceptable to TSA, when applying to obtain or renew a TWIC.

(a) Except as provided in (a)(12) through (16), the applicant must provide the following identifying information:

(1) Legal name, including first, middle, and last; any applicable suffix; and any other name used previously.

(2) Current and previous mailing address, current residential address if it differs from the current mailing address, and e-mail address if available. If the applicant wishes to receive notification that the TWIC is ready to be retrieved from the enrollment center via telephone rather than e-mail address, the applicant should state this and provide the correct telephone number.

(3) Date of birth.

(4) Gender.

(5) Height, weight, hair color, and eye color.

(6) City, state, and country of birth.

(7) Immigration status, and

(i) If the applicant is a naturalized citizen of the United States, the date of naturalization;

(ii) If the applicant is present in the United States based on a Visa, the type of Visa, the Visa number, and the date on which it expires; and

(iii) If the applicant is a commercial driver licensed in Canada and does not hold a FAST card, a Canadian passport.

(8) If not a national or citizen of the United States, the alien registration number and/or the number assigned to the applicant on the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Arrival-Departure Record, Form I-94.

(9) Except as described in paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section, the reason that the applicant requires a TWIC, including, as applicable, the applicant's job description and the primary facility, vessel, or maritime port location(s) where the applicant will most likely require unescorted access, if known. This statement does not limit access to other facilities, vessels, or ports, but establishes eligibility for a TWIC.

(i) Applicants who are commercial drivers licensed in Canada or Mexico who are applying for a TWIC in order to transport hazardous materials in accordance with 49 CFR 1572.201 and not to access secure areas of a facility or vessel, must explain this in response to the information requested in paragraph (a)(9) of this section.

(10) The name, telephone number, and address of the applicant's current employer(s), if working for the employer requires a TWIC. If the applicant's current employer is the U.S. military service, include the branch of the service. An applicant whose current employer does not require possession of a TWIC, does not have a single employer, or is self-employed, must provide the primary vessel or port location(s) where the applicant requires unescorted access, if known. This statement does not limit access to other facilities, vessels, or ports, but establishes eligibility for a TWIC.

(11) If a credentialed mariner or applying to become a credentialed mariner, proof of citizenship as required in 46 CFR chapter I, subchapter B.

(12) Social security number. Providing the social security number is voluntary; however, failure to provide it will delay and may prevent completion of the threat assessment.

(13) Passport number, city of issuance, date of issuance, and date of expiration. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who are U.S. citizens born abroad.

(14) Department of State Consular Report of Birth Abroad. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who are U.S. citizens born abroad.

(15) Whether the applicant has previously completed a TSA threat assessment, and if so the date and program for which it was completed. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who have completed a TSA security threat assessment.

(16) Whether the applicant currently holds a federal security clearance, and if so, the date of and agency for which the clearance was performed. This information is voluntary and may expedite the adjudication process for applicants who have completed a federal security threat assessment.

(b) The applicant must provide a statement, signature, and date of signature that he or she-

(1) Was not convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying crime listed in 49 CFR 1572.103(b), in a civilian or military jurisdiction, during the seven years before the date of the application, or is applying for a waiver;

(2) Was not released from incarceration, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for committing a disqualifying crime listed in 49 CFR 1572.103(b), during the five years before the date of the application, or is applying for a waiver;

(3) Is not wanted, or under indictment, in a civilian or military jurisdiction, for a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103, or is applying for a waiver;

(4) Was not convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying criminal offense identified in 49 CFR 1572.103(a), in a civilian or military jurisdiction, or is applying for a waiver;

(5) Has not been adjudicated as lacking mental capacity, or committed to a mental health facility involuntarily, or is applying for a waiver;

(6) Meets the immigration status requirements described in 49 CFR 1572.105;

(7) Has, or has not, served in the military, and if so, the branch in which he or she served, the date of discharge, and the type of discharge; and

(8) Has been informed that Federal regulations under 49 CFR 1572.19 impose a continuing obligation on the TWIC holder to disclose to TSA if he or she is convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of a disqualifying crime, adjudicated as lacking mental capacity, or committed to a mental health facility.

(c) Applicants, applying to obtain or renew a TWIC, must submit biometric information to be used for identity verification purposes. If an individual cannot provide the selected biometric, TSA will collect an alternative biometric identifier.

(d) The applicant must certify and date receipt the following statement:

(e) The applicant must certify the following statement in writing:

(f) The applicant must certify and date receipt the following statement, immediately before the signature line:

(g) The applicant must certify the following statement in writing:
