
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1572 - CREDENTIALING AND SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS
###### Subpart B - Standards for Security Threat Assessments
####### ยง 1572.103 Disqualifying criminal offenses.
######## Interim disqualifying criminal offenses.

(b)(1) The felonies listed in paragraphs (b)(2) of this section are disqualifying, if either:

(i) the applicant was convicted, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, of the crime in a civilian or military jurisdiction, within seven years of the date of the application; or

(ii) the applicant was incarcerated for that crime and released from incarceration within five years of the date of the TWIC application.

(2) The interim disqualifying felonies are:

(i) Unlawful possession, use, sale, manufacture, purchase, distribution, receipt, transfer, shipping, transporting, delivery, import, export of, or dealing in a firearm or other weapon. A firearm or other weapon includes, but is not limited to, firearms as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(3) or 26 U.S.C. 5 845(a), or items contained on the U.S. Munitions Import List at 27 CFR 447.21.

(ii) Extortion.

(iii) Dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation, including identity fraud and money laundering where the money laundering is related to a crime described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. Welfare fraud and passing bad checks do not constitute dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation for purposes of this paragraph.

(iv) Bribery.

(v) Smuggling.

(vi) Immigration violations.

(vii) Distribution of, possession with intent to distribute, or importation of a controlled substance.

(viii) Arson.

(ix) Kidnapping or hostage taking.

(x) Rape or aggravated sexual abuse.

(xi) Assault with intent to kill.

(xii) Robbery.

(xiii) Fraudulent entry into a seaport as described in 18 U.S.C. 1036, or a comparable State law.
