
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1572 - CREDENTIALING AND SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS
###### Subpart B - Standards for Security Threat Assessments
####### ยง 1572.105 Immigration status.

(a) An individual applying for a security threat assessment for a TWIC or HME must be a national of the United States or-

(1) A lawful permanent resident of the United States;

(2) A refugee admitted under 8 U.S.C. 1157;

(3) An alien granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158;

(4) An alien in valid M-1 nonimmigrant status who is enrolled in the United States Merchant Marine Academy or a comparable State maritime academy. Such individuals may serve as unlicensed mariners on a documented vessel, regardless of their nationality, under 46 U.S.C. 8103.

(5) A nonimmigrant alien admitted under the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia, the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the United States and Palau.

(6) An alien in lawful nonimmigrant status who has unrestricted authorization to work in the United States, except-

(i) An alien in valid S-5 (informant of criminal organization information) lawful nonimmigrant status;

(ii) An alien in valid S-6 (informant of terrorism information) lawful nonimmigrant status;

(iii) An alien in valid K-1 (Fianco(e)) lawful nonimmigrant status; or

(iv) An alien in valid K-2 (Minor child of Fianco(e)) lawful nonimmigrant status.

(7) An alien in the following lawful nonimmigrant status who has restricted authorization to work in the United States-

(i) B1/OCS Business Visitor/Outer Continental Shelf;

(ii) C-1/D Crewman Visa;

(iii) H-1B Special Occupations;

(iv) H-1B1 Free Trade Agreement;

(v) E-1 Treaty Trader;

(vi) E-3 Australian in Specialty Occupation;

(vii) L-1 Intracompany Executive Transfer;

(viii) O-1 Extraordinary Ability;

(ix) TN North American Free Trade Agreement;

(x) E-2 Treaty Investor; or

(xi) Another authorization that confers legal status, when TSA determines that the legal status is comparable to the legal status set out in paragraph (a)(7) of this section.

(8) A commercial driver licensed in Canada or Mexico who is admitted to the United States under 8 CFR 214.2(b)(4)(i)(E) to conduct business in the United States.

(b) Upon expiration of a nonimmigrant status listed in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, an employer must retrieve the TWIC from the applicant and provide it to TSA.

(c) Upon expiration of a nonimmigrant status listed in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, an employee must surrender his or her TWIC to the employer.

(d) If an employer terminates an applicant working under a nonimmigrant status listed in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, or the applicant otherwise ceases working for the employer, the employer must notify TSA within 5 business days and provide the TWIC to TSA if possible.

(e) Any individual in removal proceedings or subject to an order of removal under the immigration laws of the United States is not eligible to apply for a TWIC.

(f) To determine an applicant's immigration status, TSA will check relevant Federal databases and may perform other checks, including the validity of the applicant's alien registration number, social security number, or I-94 Arrival-Departure Form number.
