
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1572 - CREDENTIALING AND SECURITY THREAT ASSESSMENTS
###### Subpart C - Transportation of Hazardous Materials From Canada or Mexico To and Within the United States by Land Modes
####### ยง 1572.203 Transportation of explosives from Canada to the United States via railroad carrier.
######## Prior approval of railroad carrier, offeror, and train crew member.

(c)(1) No railroad carrier may transport in commerce any explosive into the United States from Canada, via a train operated by a crew member who is not a U.S. national or lawful permanent resident alien, unless the railroad carrier, offeror, and train crew member are identified on a TSA list as a known railroad carrier, known offeror, and known train crew member, respectively.

(2) The railroad carrier must ensure that it, its offeror, and each of its crew members have been determined to be a known railroad carrier, known offeror, and known train crew member, respectively. If any has not been so determined, the railroad carrier must submit the following information to Transport Canada:

(i) The railroad carrier's identification, including-

(A) Official name;

(B) Business number;

(C) Any trade names; and

(D) Address.

(ii) The following information about any offeror of explosives whose shipments it will carry:

(A) Official name.

(B) Business number.

(C) Address.

(iii) The following information about any train crew member the railroad carrier may use to transport explosives into the United States from Canada, who is neither a U.S. national nor lawful permanent resident alien:

(A) Full name.

(B) Both current and most recent prior residential addresses.

(3) Transport Canada will determine whether the railroad carrier and offeror are legitimately doing business in Canada and will also determine whether the train crew members present no known problems for purposes of this section. Transport Canada will notify TSA of these determinations by forwarding to TSA lists of known railroad carriers, offerors, and train crew members and their identifying information.

(4) TSA will update and maintain the list of known railroad carriers, offerors, and train crew members and forward the list to CBP.

(5) Once included on the list, the railroad carriers, offerors, and train crew members need not obtain prior approval for future transport of explosives under this section.
