
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.26 General Counsel.

The General Counsel is the chief legal officer of the Department, legal advisor to the Secretary, and final authority within the Department on questions of law. The Office of the General Counsel provides legal advice to the Secretary and secretarial offices, and supervision, coordination, and review of the legal work of the Chief Counsel Offices in the Department. The General Counsel participates with each Operating Administrator in the performance reviews of Chief Counsel. The General Counsel is responsible for retention of outside counsel, and for the approval of the hiring and promotion of departmental attorneys (other than in the Federal Aviation Administration). The General Counsel is also responsible for departmental regulation under statutes including the Air Carrier Access Act, statutes prohibiting unfair and deceptive practices in air transportation, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise program, and the Uniform Time Act. The General Counsel coordinates all international legal matters, and departmental participation in proceedings before other federal and state agencies. The General Counsel provides oversight of departmental litigation, regulation, legislation, Freedom of Information Act compliance, and administrative enforcement.
