
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 99 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Appendix to Subtitle A - United States Railway Association - Employee Responsibilities and Conduct
##### Partner of employee.

A partner of an employee of the Association may not act as agent or attorney for anyone other than the Association, in connection with any judicial or other proceeding, application, request for a ruling or other determination, contract, claim, controversy, charge, accusation, arrest, or other particular matter in which the Association is a party or has a direct and substantial interest and in which such employee of the Association participates personally and substantially as an employee through decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, the rendering of advice, investigation or otherwise, or which is the subject of his official responsibility.

I. (a) The following are exempted from the prohibitions of sections 13(a), 15, and 17(a), because they are too remote or too inconsequential to affect the integrity of an employee's services in any matter in which he may act in his official capacity.

(1) Any holding in a widely held mutual fund, or regulated investment company, which does not specialize in the transportation industry.

(2) Ownership of shares of stock and of corporate bonds or other corporate securities, if the current aggregate market value of the stocks and other securities so owned in any single corporation is less than $10,000 and is less than one percent of the outstanding stock of the organization concerned, and if the employee, his spouse, or minor children are not active in the management of the organization and have no other connection with or interest in it.

(3) Continued participation in a bona fide pension, retirement, deferred compensation, group life, health, or accident insurance plan or other employee welfare or benefit plan that is maintained by a business or nonprofit organization by which the employee was formerly employed, to the extent that the employee's rights in the plans are vested and require no additional services by him. To the extent the welfare or benefit plan is a profit sharing or stock bonus plan, this exemption does not apply.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph 1(a)(2), the interest of an employee, whose position is listed in section II of this appendix, shall not be exempt from the prohibitions of sections 13(a), 15, and 17(a), with respect to any stock or other security holding in an organization to which he is assigned, or for which he has specific responsibility as a part of his regular duties, for conducting inspections or issuing certificates, waivers, exemptions, or approvals.

II. The following is a list of positions to which the exemption in paragraph 1(a)(2) of this appendix does not apply. This list may be amended at any time by the Association.

[To be supplied]
