
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter XII - Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security
#### Subchapter D - Maritime and Surface Transportation Security
##### PART 1584 - HIGHWAY AND MOTOR CARRIER SECURITY
###### Subpart B - Security Programs
####### § 1584.113 Security training program general requirements.
######## General requirements.

(b)The security training program must include the following information:

(1) Name of owner/operator.

(2) Name, title, telephone number, and email address of the primary individual to be contacted with regard to review of the security training program.

(3) Number, by specific job function category identified in Appendix B to this part, of security-sensitive employees trained or to be trained.

(4) Implementation schedule that identifies a specific date by which initial and recurrent security training required by § 1570.111 of this subchapter will be completed.

(5) Location where training program records will be maintained.

(6) Curriculum or lesson plan, including learning objectives and method of delivery (such as instructor-led or computer-based training) for each course used to meet the requirements of § 1584.115 of this part. TSA may request additional information regarding the curriculum during the review and approval process. If recurrent training under § 1570.111 of this subchapter is not the same as initial training, a curriculum or lesson plan for the recurrent training will need to be submitted and approved by TSA.

(7) Plan for ensuring supervision of untrained security-sensitive employees performing functions identified in Appendix B to this part.

(8) Plan for notifying employees of changes to security measures that could change information provided in previously provided training.

(9) Method(s) for evaluating the effectiveness of the security training program in each area required by § 1584.115 of this part.
