
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 105 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROCEDURES
###### Subpart B - General Procedures
####### Obtaining Guidance and Public Information
######## ยง 105.25 Reviewing public documents.
######### Office of Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration's Office of Hazardous Materials Safety.,e.g.,http://www.phmsa.dot.gov.

(b)(1) You may obtain documents (, proposed and final rules, notices, letters of clarification, safety notices, DOT forms and other documents) by contacting the Hazardous Materials Information Center at 1-800-467-4922 or through the Internet at

(2) Upon your written request, we will make the following documents and information available to you:

(i) Appeals under 49 CFR part 107 and PHMSA's decisions issued in response to those appeals.

(ii) Records of compliance order proceedings and PHMSA compliance orders.

(iii) Applications for approvals, including supporting data, memoranda of any informal meetings with applicants, and decisions granting or denying approvals applications.

(iv) Applications for special permits numbered below DOT-E or DOT-SP 11832 and related background information are available for public review and copying at the Office of Hazardous Materials Safety, Approvals and Permits Division, U.S. Department of Transportation, PHH-30, East Building, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.

(v) Other information about PHMSA's hazardous materials program required by statute to be made available to the public for review and copying and any other information PHMSA decides should be available to the public.

(3) Your written request to review documents should include the following:

(i) A detailed description of the documents you wish to review.

(ii) Your name, address, and telephone number.

(4) Send your written request to: Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Attn: PHH-1, U.S. Department of Transportation, East Building, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.
