
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 106 - RULEMAKING PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - PHMSA Rulemaking Documents
####### ยง 106.10 Process for issuing rules.

(a) PHMSA ("we") uses informal rulemaking procedures under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553) to add, amend, or delete regulations. To propose or adopt changes to a regulation, PHMSA may issue one or more of the following documents. We publish the following rulemaking documents in theunless we name and personally serve a copy of a rule on every person subject to it:

(1) An advance notice of proposed rulemaking.

(2) A notice of proposed rulemaking.

(3) A final rule.

(4) An interim final rule.

(5) A direct final rule.

(b) Each of the rulemaking documents in paragraph (a) of this section generally contains the following information:

(1) The topic involved in the rulemaking document.

(2) PHMSA's legal authority for issuing the rulemaking document.

(3) How interested persons may participate in the rulemaking proceeding (for example, by filing written comments or making oral presentations).

(4) Whom to call if you have questions about the rulemaking document.

(5) The date, time, and place of any public meetings being held to discuss the rulemaking document.

(6) The docket number and regulation identifier number (RIN) for the rulemaking proceeding.
