
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 107 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM PROCEDURES
###### Subpart B - Special Permits
####### ยง 107.107 Application for party status.
######## see

(5) For a Class 1 material that is forbidden for transportation by aircraft except under a special permit (Columns 9A and 9B in the table in 49 CFR 172.101), a certification from an applicant for party status to a special permit to transport such Class 1 material on passenger-carrying or cargo-only aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of less than 12,500 pounds that no person within the categories listed in 18 U.S.C. 842(i) will participate in the transportation of the Class 1 material.

(6) The applicant must certify that the applicant has not previously been granted party status to the special permit. If the applicant has previously been granted party status, the applicant must follow renewal procedures as specified in ยง 107.109.

(7) A statement indicating whether the applicant will be acting as a shipper (offeror), carrier or both under the terms of the special permit.

(c) The Associate Administrator may grant or deny an application for party status in the manner specified in ยง 107.113(e) and (f) of this subpart.

(d) A party to a special permit is subject to all terms of that special permit, including the expiration date. If a party to a special permit wishes to renew party status, the special permit renewal procedures set forth in ยง 107.109 apply.
