
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 107 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM PROCEDURES
###### Subpart B - Special Permits
####### § 107.117 Emergency processing.
######## Water Transportation:

(5)Chief, Hazardous Materials Standards Division, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC 20593-0001; 202-372-1420 (day); 1-800-424-8802 (night).

(e) Upon receipt of all information necessary to process the application, the receiving Department official transmits to the Associate Administrator, by the most rapidly available means of communication, an evaluation as to whether an emergency exists under § 107.117(a) and, if appropriate, recommendations as to the conditions to be included in the special permit. The Associate Administrator will review an application for emergency processing of a special permit in conformance with the standard operating procedures specified in appendix A of this part ("Standard Operating Procedures for Special Permits and Approvals") to determine if it is complete and conforms with the requirements of this subpart. If the Associate Administrator determines that an emergency exists under § 107.117(a) and that, with reference to the criteria of § 107.113(f), granting of the application is in the public interest, the Associate Administrator will grant the application subject to such terms as necessary and immediately notify the applicant. If the Associate Administrator determines that an emergency does not exist or that granting of the application is not in the public interest, the applicant will be notified immediately.

(f) A determination that an emergency does not exist is not subject to reconsideration under § 107.123 of this part.

(g) Within 90 days following issuance of an emergency special permit, the Associate Administrator will publish, in thea notice of issuance with a statement of the basis for the finding of emergency and the scope and duration of the special permit.
