
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 107 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM PROCEDURES
###### Subpart C - Preemption
####### Preemption Determinations
######## ยง 107.209 Determination.

(a) Upon consideration of the application and other relevant information received, the Chief Counsel issues a determination.

(b) The determination includes a written statement setting forth the relevant facts and the legal basis for the determination, and provides that any person aggrieved thereby may file a petition for reconsideration with the Chief Counsel.

(c) The Chief Counsel provides a copy of the determination to the applicant and to any other person who substantially participated in the proceeding or requested in comments to the docket to be notified of the determination. A copy of each determination is placed on file in the public docket. The Chief Counsel will publish the determination or notice of the determination in theat which time the determination becomes a final agency action.

(d) A determination issued under this section constitutes an administrative determination as to whether a particular requirement of a State or political subdivision or Indian tribe is preempted under the Federal hazardous materials transportation law. The fact that a determination has not been issued under this section with respect to a particular requirement of a State or political subdivision or Indian tribe carries no implication as to whether the requirement is preempted under the Federal hazardous materials transportation law.
