
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 107 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM PROCEDURES
###### Subpart C - Preemption
####### Waiver of Preemption Determinations
######## ยง 107.217 Notice.

(a) The applicant shall mail a copy of the application and any subsequent amendments or other documents relating to the application to each person who is reasonably ascertainable by the applicant as a person who will be affected by the determination sought. The copy of the application must be accompanied by a statement that the person may submit comments regarding the application within 45 days. The application must include a certification that the application has complied with this paragraph and must include the names and addresses of each person to whom the application was sent.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, if the State or political subdivision determines that compliance with paragraph (a) of this section would be impracticable, the applicant shall:

(1) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with regard to those persons whom it is reasonable and practicable to notify; and

(2) Include with the application a description of the persons or class or classes of persons to whom notice was not sent.

(c) The Chief Counsel may require the applicant to provide notice in addition to that required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or may determine that the notice required by paragraph (a) of the section is not impracticable, or that notice should be published in theLate-filed comments are considered so far as practicable.

(d) The Chief Counsel may notify any other persons who may be affected by the outcome of a determination on the application.

(e) Any person submitting written comments with respect to an application filed under this section shall send a copy of the comments to the applicant. The person shall certify that he has complied with the requirements of this paragraph. The Chief Counsel may notify other persons participating in the proceeding of the comments and provide an opportunity for those other persons to respond.
