
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 107 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM PROCEDURES
###### Subpart C - Preemption
####### Waiver of Preemption Determinations
######## ยง 107.223 Petition for reconsideration.

(a) Any person aggrieved by a determination under ยง 107.221 may file a petition for reconsideration. The petition must be filed with the Chief Counsel, in the same manner specified for filing an application in ยง 107.215(b), within 20 days of publication of the determination in the

(b) The petition must contain a concise statement of the basis for seeking review, including any specific factual or legal error alleged. If the petition requests consideration of information that was not previously made available to the Chief Counsel, the petition must include the reasons why such information was not previously made available.

(c) The petitioner shall mail a copy of the petition to each person who participated, either as an applicant or commenter, in the waiver of preemption proceeding, accompanied by a statement that the person may submit comments concerning the petition to the Chief Counsel within 20 days. The petition filed with the Chief Counsel must contain a certification that the petitioner has complied with this paragraph and include the names and addresses of all persons to whom a copy of the petition was sent. Late-filed comments are considered so far as practicable.

(d) The Chief Counsel will publish the decision on the petition for reconsideration or notice of the decision in theat which time the decision on the petition for reconsideration becomes a final agency action.
