
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 107 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM PROCEDURES
###### Subpart D - Enforcement
####### Compliance Orders and Civil Penalties
######## ยง 107.317 Informal response.

(a) In responding to a notice of probable violation under ยง 107.311, the respondent may submit to the official who issued the notice, written explanations, information, or arguments in response to the allegations, the terms of a proposed compliance order, or the amount of the preliminarily assessed civil penalty.

(b) The respondent may include in his informal response a request for a conference. Upon the request of the respondent, the conference may be either in person or by telephone. A request for a conference must set forth the issues the respondent will raise at the conference.

(c) Upon receipt of a request for a conference under paragraph (b) of this section, the Chief Counsel's Office, in consultation with the Associate Administrator, arranges for a conference as soon as practicable at a time and place of mutual convenience.

(d) The respondent's written explanations, information, and arguments as well as the respondent's presentation at a conference are considered by the Chief Counsel in reviewing the notice of probable violation. Based upon a review of the proceeding, the Chief Counsel may dismiss the notice of probable violation in whole or in part. If he does not dismiss it in whole, he issues an order directing compliance or assessing a civil penalty, or, if proposed in the notice, both.
