
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 107 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM PROCEDURES
###### Subpart D - Enforcement
####### ยง 107.305 Investigations.
######## Investigations and Inspections.

(b)Investigations under 49 U.S.C. 5121(a) are conducted by personnel duly authorized for that purpose by the Associate Administrator. Inspections under 49 U.S.C. 5121(c) are conducted by Hazardous Materials Enforcement Specialists or Hazardous Materials Compliance Investigators, also known as "hazmat investigators" or "investigators," whom the Associate Administrator has designated for that purpose.

(1) An investigator will, on request, present his or her credentials for examination, but the credentials may not be reproduced.

(2) An investigator may administer oaths and receive affirmations in any matter under investigation by the Associate Administrator.

(3) An investigator may gather information by reasonable means including, but not limited to, interviews, statements, photocopying, photography, and video- and audio-recording.

(4) With concurrence of the Director, Field Operations, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, an investigator may issue a subpoena for the production of documentary or other tangible evidence if, on the basis of information available to the investigator, the documents and evidence materially will advance a determination of compliance with this subchapter or subchapter C. Service of a subpoena shall be in accordance with ยง 105.50. A person to whom a subpoena is directed may seek review of the subpoena by applying to the Office of Chief Counsel in accordance with ยง 105.55(a). A subpoena issued under this paragraph may be enforced in accordance with ยง 105.55(b).
