
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 107 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM PROCEDURES
###### Subpart E - Designation of Approval and Certification Agencies
####### ยง 107.402 Application for designation as a certification agency.
######## approvals@dot.gov.

(a) Any organization or person seeking to be approved as a certification agency must apply in writing to the Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety (PHH-32), Department of Transportation, East Building, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington DC 20590-0001. Alternatively, the application in an appropriate format may be submitted by facsimile (fax) to: (202) 366-3753 or (202) 366-3308 or by electronic mail (email) to:Each application must be signed and certified to be correct by the applicant or, if the applicant is an organization, by an authorized officer or official representative of the organization. Any false statement or representation, or the knowing and willful concealment of a material fact, may subject the applicant to prosecution under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1001, and result in the denial or termination of a designation.

(b) Each application for approval as a certification agency must be in English and include the following information:

(1) Information required by the provisions in subpart H of this part;

(2) Name and address of the applicant, including place of incorporation if a corporation. In addition, if the applicant is not a resident of the United States, the name and address of a permanent resident of the United States designated in accordance with ยง 105.40 of this subchapter to serve as agent for service of process. A person approved as a certification agency is not a PHMSA agent or representative;

(3) A statement acknowledging that the Associate Administrator or a designated official may inspect, on demand, its records and facilities in so far as they relate to the certification activities and will cooperate in the conduct of such inspections; and

(4) Any additional information relevant to the applicant's qualifications, upon request of the Associate Administrator or a designated official.
