
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 107 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROGRAM PROCEDURES
###### Subpart F - Registration of Cargo Tank and Cargo Tank Motor Vehicle Manufacturers, Assemblers, Repairers, Inspectors, Testers, and Design Certifying Engineers
####### ยง 107.502 General registration requirements.
######## cargo tank wall,manufacturer,repair

(3) The termsandare defined in ยง 178.320(a), andis defined in ยง 180.403 of this chapter.

(b) No person may engage in the manufacture, assembly, certification, inspection or repair of a cargo tank or cargo tank motor vehicle manufactured under the terms of a DOT specification under subchapter C of this chapter or a special permit issued under this part unless the person is registered with the Department in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. A person employed as an inspector or design certifying engineer is considered to be registered if the person's employer is registered. The requirements of this paragraph (b) do not apply to a person engaged in the repair of a DOT specification cargo tank used in the transportation of hazardous materials in the United States in accordance with ยง 180.413(a)(1)(iii) of this chapter.

(c) A person who performs functions which are subject to the provisions of this subpart may perform only those functions which have been identified to the Department in accordance with the procedures of this subpart.

(d) Registration statements must be in English, contain all the information required by this subpart, and be submitted to: FMCSA Hazardous Materials Division-MC-SEH, West Building, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590.

(e) Upon determination that a registration statement contains all the information required by this subpart, the Department will send the registrant a letter confirming receipt of the registration application and assigning a registration number to that person. A separate registration number will be assigned for each cargo tank manufacturing, assembly, repair facility or other place of business identified by the registrant.
