
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 109 - DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION HAZARDOUS MATERIAL PROCEDURAL REGULATIONS
###### Subpart C - Emergency Orders
####### ยง 109.17 Emergency Orders.
######## Out-of-service order.

(b)An out-of-service order is issued to prohibit the movement of an aircraft, vessel, motor vehicle, train, railcar, locomotive, transport unit, transport vehicle, or other vehicle, or a freight container, portable tank, or other package until specified conditions of the out-of-service order have been met.

(1) Upon receipt of an out-of-service order, the person in possession of, or responsible for, the package must remove the package from transportation until it is brought into compliance with the out-of-service order.

(2) A package subject to an out-of-service order may be moved from the place where it was found to present an imminent hazard to the nearest location where the package can be brought into compliance, provided that the agent who issued the out-of-service order is notified before the move.

(3) The recipient of the out-of-service order must notify the operating administration that issued the order when the package is brought into compliance.

(4) Upon receipt of an out-of-service order, a recipient may appeal the decision of the agent issuing the order to PHMSA's Chief Safety Officer. A petition for review of an out-of-service order must meet the requirements of ยง 109.19.
