
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 10 - MAINTENANCE OF AND ACCESS TO RECORDS PERTAINING TO INDIVIDUALS
#### Subpart F - Procedures for Reconsidering Decisions Not To Grant Access to or Amend Records
##### ยง 10.51 General.

(a) Each officer or employee of the Department who, upon a request by a member of the public for a record under this part, makes a determination that access is not to be granted or who determines not to amend a record in a requested manner, gives a written statement of the reasons for that determination to the person making the request and indicates the name and title or position of each person responsible for the denial of such request and the procedure for appeal within the Department.

(b) Any person:

(1) Who has been given a determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, that access will not be granted; or

(2) Who has been informed that an amendment to a requested record will not be made; may apply to the Administrator concerned, or in the case of the Office of the Secretary, to the General Counsel for review of that decision. A determination that access will not be granted or a record amended is not administratively final for the purposes of judicial review unless it was made by the Administrator concerned or his or her delegee, or the General Counsel or his or her delegee, as the case may be. Upon a determination that an appeal will be denied, the requester is informed in writing of the reasons for the determination, and the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the determination, and that the determination may be appealed to the District Court of the United States in the district in which the complainant resides, or has his or her principal place of business, or in which the records are located, or in the District of Columbia.

(c) Each application for review must be made in writing and must include all information and arguments relied upon by the person making the request, and be submitted within 30 days of the date of the initial denial; exceptions to this time period are permitted for good reason.

(d) Upon a determination that a request for the correction of a record will be denied, the requester is informed that he may file a concise statement in accordance with ยง 10.45.

(e) Each application for review must indicate that it is an appeal from a denial of a request made under the Privacy Act. The envelope in which the application is sent should be marked prominently with the words "Privacy Act." If these requirements are not met, the time limits described in ยง 10.43 do not begin to run until the application has been identified by an employee of the Department as an application under the Privacy Act and has been received by the appropriate office.

(f) The Administrator concerned, or the General Counsel, as the case may be, may require the person making the request to furnish additional information, or proof of factual allegations, and may order other proceedings appropriate in the circumstances. The decision of the Administrator concerned, or the General Counsel, as the case may be, as to the availability of the record or whether to amend the record is administratively final.

(g) The decision by the Administrator concerned, or the General Counsel, as the case may be, not to disclose a record under this part is considered a determination for the purposes of section 552a(g) of title 5, United States Code, "Civil Remedies."

(h) Any final decision by an Administrator or his/her delegate not to grant access to or amend a record under this part is subject to concurrence by the General Counsel or his or her delegate.
