
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter A - Hazardous Materials and Oil Transportation
##### PART 110 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING AND PLANNING GRANTS
###### ยง 110.40 Activities eligible for hazardous materials emergency preparedness grant funding.

Eligible applicants may receive funding for the following activities:

(a) To develop, improve, and implement emergency plans required under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, as well as exercises that test the emergency plan. To enhance emergency plans to include hazard analysis, as well as response procedures for emergencies involving transportation of hazardous materials.

(b) To determine commodity flow patterns of hazardous materials within a State, between a State and another State, Territory, or Tribal lands, and develop and maintain a system to keep such information current.

(c) To determine the need for regional hazardous materials emergency response teams.

(d) To assess local response capabilities.

(e) To conduct emergency response drills and exercises associated with emergency preparedness plans.

(f) To provide for technical staff to support the planning effort.

(g) To train public sector employees to respond to hazardous materials transportation accidents and incidents.

(h) To determine the number of public sector employees employed or used by a political subdivision who need the proposed training and to select courses consistent with national consensus standards or the National Curriculum.

(i) To deliver comprehensive preparedness and response training to public sector employees, which may include design and delivery of preparedness and response training to meet specialized needs, and financial assistance for trainees and for the trainers, if appropriate, such as tuition, travel expenses to and from a training facility, and room and board while at the training facility.

(j) To deliver emergency response drills and exercises associated with training, a course of study, and tests and evaluation of emergency preparedness plans.

(k) To pay expenses associated with training by a person (including a department, agency, or instrumentality of a State or political subdivision thereof, a Territory, or an Indian tribe) and activities necessary to monitor such training including, but not limited to examinations, critiques, and instructor evaluations.

(l) To maintain staff to manage the training effort designed to result in increased benefits, proficiency, and rapid deployment of local and regional responders.

(m) Additional hazardous materials emergency preparedness activities not otherwise described in this section that the Associate Administrator deems appropriate under the grant agreement.
