
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Oil Transportation
##### PART 130 - OIL SPILL PREVENTION AND RESPONSE PLANS
###### Subpart A - Applicability and General Requirements
####### ยง 130.2 Scope.

(a) The requirements of this part apply to oil that is subject to a basic or comprehensive oil spill response plan in accordance with subparts B and C of this part.

(b) The requirements of this part have no effect on-

(1) The applicability of the Hazardous Materials Regulations set forth in subchapter C of this chapter; and

(2) The discharge notification requirements of the United States Coast Guard (33 CFR part 153) and EPA (40 CFR part 110).

(c) The requirements of this part do not apply to-

(1) Any mixture or solution in which oil is in a concentration by weight of less than 10 percent.

(2) Transportation of oil by aircraft or vessel.

(3) Any petroleum oil carried in a fuel tank for the purpose of supplying fuel for propulsion of the transport vehicle to which it is attached.

(4) Oil transport exclusively within the confines of a non-transportation-related or terminal facility in a vehicle not intended for use in interstate or intrastate commerce (see 40 CFR part 112, appendix A).

(d) The requirements in subpart C of this part do not apply to mobile marine transportation-related facilities (see 33 CFR part 154).
