
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Oil Transportation
##### PART 130 - OIL SPILL PREVENTION AND RESPONSE PLANS
###### Subpart C - Comprehensive Oil Spill Response Plans
####### ยง 130.135 Training.

(a) A railroad must certify in the response plan that it has conducted training to ensure that:

(1) All railroad employees subject to the plan know-

(i) Their responsibilities under the comprehensive oil spill response plan; and

(ii) The name of, and procedures for contacting, the qualified individual or alternate on a 24-hour basis;

(2) All railroad employees with responsibilities as reporting personnel in the plan also know-

(i) The content of the information summary of the response plan;

(ii) The toll-free telephone number of the National Response Center; and

(iii) The notification process required by ยง 130.105; and

(3) The qualified individual or, as an alternative, the person acting in an Incident Commander role, may be trained in the Incident Command System at the Incident Commander Level.

(b) Employees subject to this section must be trained at least once every five years or, if the plan is revised during the five-year recurrent training cycle, within 90 days of implementation of the revised plan. New employees must be trained within 90 days of employment or change in job function.

(c) Each railroad must create and retain records of current training of each railroad employee engaged in oil spill response, inclusive of the preceding five years, in accordance with this section, for as long as that employee is employed and for 90 days thereafter. A railroad must make the employee's record of training available upon request, at a reasonable time and location, to an authorized official of the Department of Transportation. The record must include all of the following:

(1) The employee's name;

(2) The completion date of the employee's most recent training;

(3) The name and address of the person providing the training; and

(4) A certification statement that the designated employee has been trained, as required by this subpart.

(d) Nothing in this section relieves a person from the responsibility to ensure that all personnel are trained in accordance with other regulations. As an example, response personnel may be subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards for emergency response operations in 29 CFR 1910.120, including volunteers or casual laborers employed during a response who are subject to those standards pursuant to 40 CFR part 311. Hazmat employees, as defined in ยง 171.8 of this chapter, are subject to the training requirements in subpart H of part 172 of this chapter, including safety training.
