
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter B - Oil Transportation
##### PART 130 - OIL SPILL PREVENTION AND RESPONSE PLANS
###### Subpart C - Comprehensive Oil Spill Response Plans
####### ยง 130.145 Plan review, update, and recordkeeping procedures.

(a) For purposes of this part, copy means a hardcopy or an electronic version. Each railroad must:

(1) Maintain a copy of the complete plan at the railroad's principal place of business;

(2) Provide a copy of the core plan and the appropriate response zone appendix to each qualified individual and alternate; and

(3) Provide a copy of the information summary to each dispatcher in response zones identified in the plan.

(b) Each railroad must include procedures to review the plan after a discharge requiring the activation of the plan in order to evaluate and record the plan's effectiveness.

(c) Each railroad must update its plan to address new or different conditions or information. In addition, each railroad must review its plan in full at least every 5 years from the date of the last approval.

(d) If changes to the plans are made, updated copies of the plan must be provided to every individual referenced under paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) If new or different operating conditions or information would substantially affect the implementation of the response plan, the railroad must immediately modify its plan to address such a change and must submit the change to PHMSA within 90 days in accordance with ยง 130.111. Examples of changes in operating conditions or information that would substantially affect a railroad's response plan are:

(1) Establishment of a new railroad route, including an extension of an existing railroad route, construction of a new track, or obtaining trackage rights over a route not covered by the previously approved plan used for trains which require a comprehensive plan in accordance with ยง 130.100(a);

(2) The name of the Oil Spill Removal Organization;

(3) Emergency response procedures;

(4) The qualified individual;

(5) A change in the NCP or an ACP that has significant impact on the equipment appropriate for response activities (e.g., identification of ESAs as described by ยง 130.115);

(6) A change in the type of oil transported, if the type affects the required response resources (e.g., a change from crude oil to gasoline); and

(7) Any other information relating to circumstances that may affect full implementation of the plan.

(f) If PHMSA determines that a change to a response plan does not meet the requirements of this part, PHMSA will notify the operator of any alleged deficiencies, and provide the railroad with an opportunity to respond-including an opportunity for an informal conference-to any proposed plan revisions, as well as an opportunity to correct any deficiencies.

(g) A railroad that disagrees with a determination that proposed revisions to a plan are deficient may petition PHMSA for reconsideration within 30 days from the date of receipt of PHMSA's notice. After considering all relevant material presented in writing or at an informal conference, PHMSA will notify the railroad of its final decision. The railroad must comply with the final decision within 30 days of issuance, unless PHMSA allows additional time.
