
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 171 - GENERAL INFORMATION, REGULATIONS, AND DEFINITIONS
###### Subpart A - Applicability, General Requirements, and North American Shipments
####### § 171.12 North American Shipments.
######## Shipments to or from Mexico.

(b)Unless otherwise excepted, hazardous materials shipments from Mexico to the United States or from the United States to Mexico must conform to all applicable requirements of this subchapter. When a hazardous material that is a material poisonous by inhalation (see § 171.8) is transported by highway or rail from Mexico to the United States, or from the United States to Mexico, the following requirements apply:

(1) The shipping description must include the words "Toxic Inhalation Hazard" or "Poison-Inhalation Hazard" or "Inhalation Hazard", as required in § 172.203(m) of this subchapter.

(2) The material must be packaged in accordance with requirements of this subchapter.

(3) The package must be marked in accordance with § 172.313 of this subchapter.

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the package must be labeled or placarded POISON GAS or POISON INHALATION HAZARD, as appropriate, in accordance with subparts E and F to part 172 of this subchapter.

(5) A label or placard that conforms to the UN Recommendations (IBR, see § 171.7) specifications for a "Division 2.3" or "Division 6.1" label or placard may be substituted for the POISON GAS or POISON INHALATION HAZARD label or placard required by §§ 172.400(a) and 172.504(e) of this subchapter on a package transported in a closed transport vehicle or freight container. The transport vehicle or freight container must be marked with identification numbers for the material, regardless of the total quantity contained in the transport vehicle or freight container, in the manner specified in § 172.313(c) of this subchapter and placarded as required by subpart F of this subchapter.
