
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 171 - GENERAL INFORMATION, REGULATIONS, AND DEFINITIONS
###### Subpart C - Authorization and Requirements for the Use of International Transport Standards and Regulations
####### § 171.22 Authorization and conditions for the use of international standards and regulations.
######## Complete information and certification.

(f)(1) Except for shipments into the United States from Canada conforming to § 171.12, each person importing a hazardous material into the United States must provide the shipper, and the forwarding agent at the place of entry into the United States, timely and complete written information as to the requirements of this subchapter applicable to the particular shipment.

(2) The shipper, directly or through the forwarding agent at the place of entry, must provide the initial U.S. carrier with the shipper's certification required by § 172.204 of this subchapter, unless the shipment is otherwise excepted from the certification requirement. Except for shipments for which the certification requirement does not apply, a carrier may not accept a hazardous material for transportation unless provided a shipper's certification.

(3) All shipping paper information and package markings required in accordance with this subchapter must be in English. The use of shipping papers and a package marked with both English and a language other than English, in order to dually comply with this subchapter and the regulations of a foreign entity, is permitted under this subchapter.

(4) Each person who provides for transportation or receives for transportation (see §§ 174.24, 175.30, 176.24 and 177.817 of this subchapter) a shipping paper must retain a copy of the shipping paper or an electronic image thereof that is accessible at or through its principal place of business in accordance with § 172.201(e) of this subchapter.
