
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 171 - GENERAL INFORMATION, REGULATIONS, AND DEFINITIONS
###### Subpart C - Authorization and Requirements for the Use of International Transport Standards and Regulations
####### § 171.25 Additional requirements for the use of the IMDG Code.

(a) A hazardous material may be offered for transportation or transported to, from or within the United States by vessel, and by motor carrier and rail in accordance with the IMDG Code (IBR, see § 171.7), as authorized in § 171.22, provided all or part of the movement is by vessel. Such shipments must conform to the requirements in § 171.22, as applicable, and this section.

(b) Any person who offers for transportation or transports a hazardous material in accordance with the IMDG Code must conform to the following additional conditions and requirements:

(1) Unless specified otherwise in this subchapter, a shipment must conform to the requirements in part 176 of this subchapter. For transportation by rail or highway prior to or subsequent to transportation by vessel, a shipment must conform to the applicable requirements of parts 174 and 177 respectively, of this subchapter, and the motor vehicle or rail car must be placarded in accordance with subpart F of part 172 of this subchapter. When a hazardous material regulated by this subchapter for transportation by highway is transported by motor vehicle on a public highway or by rail under the provisions of subpart C of part 171, the segregation requirements of Part 7, Chapter 7.2 of the IMDG Code are authorized.

(2) For transportation by vessel, the stowage and segregation requirements in Part 7 of the IMDG Code may be substituted for the stowage and segregation requirements in part 176 of this subchapter.

(3) The outside of each package containing lithium metal cells or batteries (UN3090) or lithium ion cells or batteries (UN3480) transported in accordance with special provision 188 of the IMDG Code must be appropriately marked "PRIMARY LITHIUM BATTERIES-FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT", "LITHIUM METAL BATTERIES-FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT", "LITHIUM ION BATTERIES-FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT", or "LITHIUM BATTERIES-FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT", or labeled with a CARGO AIRCRAFT ONLY label as specified in § 172.448 of this subchapter. The provisions of this paragraph also apply to packages of lithium cells or batteries packed with, or contained in, equipment that exceed 5 kg (11 pounds) net weight. When placed in an overpack, the selected marking or label must either be clearly visible through the overpack, or the marking or label must also be affixed on the outside of the overpack.
