
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### ยง 172.101 Purpose and use of hazardous materials table.
######## Column 1: Symbols.

(b)Column 1 of the Table contains six symbols (" + ", "A", "D", "G", "I" and "W") as follows:

(1) The plus (+) sign fixes the proper shipping name, hazard class and packing group for that entry without regard to whether the material meets the definition of that class, packing group or any other hazard class definition. When the plus sign is assigned to a proper shipping name in Column (1) of the ยง 172.101 Table, it means that the material is known to pose a risk to humans. When a plus sign is assigned to mixtures or solutions containing a material where the hazard to humans is significantly different from that of the pure material or where no hazard to humans is posed, the material may be described using an alternative shipping name that represents the hazards posed by the material. An appropriate alternate proper shipping name and hazard class may be authorized by the Associate Administrator.

(2) The letter "A" denotes a material that is subject to the requirements of this subchapter only when offered or intended for transportation by aircraft, unless the material is a hazardous substance or a hazardous waste. A shipping description entry preceded by an "A" may be used to describe a material for other modes of transportation provided all applicable requirements for the entry are met.

(3) The letter "D" identifies proper shipping names which are appropriate for describing materials for domestic transportation but may be inappropriate for international transportation under the provisions of international regulations (e.g., IMO, ICAO). An alternate proper shipping name may be selected when either domestic or international transportation is involved.

(4) The letter "G" identifies proper shipping names for which one or more technical names of the hazardous material must be entered in parentheses, in association with the basic description. (See ยง 172.203(k).)

(5) The letter "I" identifies proper shipping names which are appropriate for describing materials in international transportation. An alternate proper shipping name may be selected when only domestic transportation is involved.

(6) The letter "W" denotes a material that is subject to the requirements of this subchapter only when offered or intended for transportation by vessel, unless the material is a hazardous substance or a hazardous waste. A shipping description entry preceded by a "W" may be used to describe a material for other modes of transportation provided all applicable requirements for the entry are met.
