
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### ยง 172.101 Purpose and use of hazardous materials table.
######## Column 2: Hazardous materials descriptions and proper shipping names.

(c)Column 2 lists the hazardous materials descriptions and proper shipping names of materials designated as hazardous materials. Modification of a proper shipping name may otherwise be required or authorized by this section. Proper shipping names are limited to those shown in Roman type (not italics).

(1) Proper shipping names may be used in the singular or plural and in either capital or lower case letters. Words may be alternatively spelled in the same manner as they appear in the ICAO Technical Instructions or the IMDG Code. For example "aluminum" may be spelled "aluminium" and "sulfur" may be spelled "sulphur". However, the word "inflammable" may not be used in place of the word "flammable".

(2) Punctuation marks and words in italics are not part of the proper shipping name, but may be used in addition to the proper shipping name. The word "or" in italics indicates that there is a choice of terms in the sequence that may alternately be used as the proper shipping name or as part of the proper shipping name, as appropriate. For example, for the hazardous materials description "Carbon dioxide, solid or Dry ice" either "Carbon dioxide, solid" or "Dry ice" may be used as the proper shipping name; and for the hazardous materials description "Articles, pressurized pneumatic or hydraulic," either "Articles, pressurized pneumatic" or "Articles, pressurized hydraulic" may be used as the proper shipping name.

(3) The word "poison" or "poisonous" may be used interchangeably with the word "toxic" when only domestic transportation is involved. The abbreviation "n.o.i." or "n.o.i.b.n." may be used interchangeably with "n.o.s.".

(4) Except for hazardous wastes, when qualifying words are used as part of the proper shipping name, their sequence in the package markings and shipping paper description is optional. However, the entry in the Table reflects the preferred sequence.
