
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### ยง 172.101 Purpose and use of hazardous materials table.
######## with not less than 20 percent but not more than 40 percent hydrogen peroxide",with 30 percent hydrogen peroxide.

(6) When a proper shipping name includes a concentration range as part of the shipping description, the actual concentration, if it is within the range stated, may be used in place of the concentration range. For example, an aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide containing 30 percent peroxide may be described as "Hydrogen peroxide, aqueous solutionor "Hydrogen peroxide, aqueous solution" Also, the percent sign (%) may be used in place of the word "percent" when words in italics containing the word "percent" are used in addition to the proper shipping name.

(7) Use of the prefix "mono" is optional in any shipping name, when appropriate. Thus, Iodine monochloride may be used interchangeably with Iodine chloride. In "Glycerol alpha-monochlorohydrin" the term "mono" is considered a prefix to the term "chlorohydrin" and may be deleted.

(8) Use of the word "liquid" or "solid". The word "liquid" or "solid" may be added to a proper shipping name when a hazardous material specifically listed by name may, due to differing physical states, be a liquid or solid. When the packaging specified in Column 8 is inappropriate for the physical state of the material, the table provided in paragraph (i)(4) of this section should be used to determine the appropriate packaging section.
