
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### § 172.101 Purpose and use of hazardous materials table.
######## Self-reactive materials and organic peroxides.

(13)A generic proper shipping name for a self-reactive material or an organic peroxide, as listed in Column 2 of the Table, must be selected based on the material's technical name and concentration, in accordance with the provisions of § 173.224 or § 173.225 of this subchapter, respectively.

(14) A proper shipping name that describes all isomers of a material may be used to identify any isomer of that material if the isomer meets criteria for the same hazard class or division, subsidiary risk(s) and packing group, unless the isomer is specifically identified in the Table.

(15) Unless a hydrate is specifically listed in the Table, a proper shipping name for the equivalent anhydrous substance may be used, if the hydrate meets the same hazard class or division, subsidiary risk(s) and packing group.

(16) Unless it is already included in the proper shipping name in the § 172.101 Table, the qualifying words "liquid" or "solid" may be added in association with the proper shipping name when a hazardous material specifically listed by name in the § 172.101 Table may, due to the differing physical states of the various isomers of the material, be either a liquid or a solid (for example "Dinitrotoluenes, liquid" and "Dinitrotoluenes, solid"). Use of the words "liquid" or "solid" is subject to the limitations specified for the use of the words "mixture" or "solution" in paragraph (c)(10) of this section. The qualifying word "molten" may be added in association with the proper shipping name when a hazardous material, which is a solid in accordance with the definition in § 171.8 of this subchapter, is offered for transportation in the molten state (for example, "Alkylphenols, solid, n.o.s., molten").

(17) Unless it is already included in the proper shipping name in the § 172.101 Table, the qualifying word "stabilized" may be added in association with the proper shipping name, as appropriate, where without stabilization the substance would be forbidden for transportation according to § 173.21(f) of this subchapter.
