
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### ยง 172.101 Purpose and use of hazardous materials table.
######## Column 3: Hazard class or Division.

(d)Column 3 contains a designation of the hazard class or division corresponding to each proper shipping name, or the word "Forbidden".

(1) A material for which the entry in this column is "Forbidden" may not be offered for transportation or transported. This prohibition does not apply if the material is diluted, stabilized or incorporated in a device and it is classed in accordance with the definitions of hazardous materials contained in part 173 of this subchapter.

(2) When a reevaluation of test data or new data indicates a need to modify the "Forbidden" designation or the hazard class or packing group specified for a material specifically identified in the Table, this data should be submitted to the Associate Administrator.

(3) A basic description of each hazard class and the section reference for class definitions appear in ยง 173.2 of this subchapter.

(4) Each reference to a Class 3 material is modified to read "Combustible liquid" when that material is reclassified in accordance with ยง 173.150(e) or (f) of this subchapter or has a flash point above 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F) but below 93 &#xB0;C (200 &#xB0;F).
