
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### ยง 172.101 Purpose and use of hazardous materials table.
######## Column 5: Packing group.

(f)Column 5 specifies one or more packing groups assigned to a material corresponding to the proper shipping name and hazard class for that material. Class 2, Class 7, and Division 6.2 do not have packing groups. Articles in classes other than Class 1 are not assigned to packing groups. For packing purposes, any requirement for a specific packaging performance level is set out in the applicable packing authorizations of part 173. Packing Groups I, II, and III indicate the degree of danger presented by the material is great, medium, or minor, respectively. If more than one packing group is indicated for an entry, the packing group for the hazardous material is determined using the criteria for assignment of packing groups specified in subpart D of part 173. When a reevaluation of test data or new data indicates a need to modify the specified packing group(s), the data should be submitted to the Associate Administrator. Each reference in this column to a material that is a hazardous waste or a hazardous substance, and whose proper shipping name preceded in Column 1 of the Table by the letter "A" or "W," is modified to read "III" on those occasions when the material is offered for transportation or transported by a mode in which its transportation is not otherwise subject to requirements of this subchapter.
