
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### § 172.101 Purpose and use of hazardous materials table.
######## Column 8: Packaging authorizations.

(i)Columns 8A, 8B and 8C specify the applicable sections for exceptions, non-bulk packaging requirements and bulk packaging requirements, respectively, in part 173 of this subchapter. Columns 8A, 8B and 8C are completed in a manner which indicates that "§ 173." precedes the designated numerical entry. For example, the entry "202" in Column 8B associated with the proper shipping name "Gasoline" indicates that for this material conformance to non-bulk packaging requirements prescribed in § 173.202 of this subchapter is required. When packaging requirements are specified, they are in addition to the standard requirements for all packagings prescribed in § 173.24 of this subchapter and any other applicable requirements in subparts A and B of part 173 of this subchapter.

(1) Exceptions. Column 8A contains exceptions from some of the requirements of this subchapter. The referenced exceptions are in addition to those specified in subpart A of part 173 and elsewhere in this subchapter. A "None" in this column means no packaging exceptions are authorized, except as may be provided by special provisions in Column 7.

(2) Non-bulk packaging. Column 8B references the section in part 173 of this subchapter which prescribes packaging requirements for non-bulk packagings. A "None" in this column means non-bulk packagings are not authorized, except as may be provided by special provisions in Column 7. Each reference in this column to a material which is a hazardous waste or a hazardous substance, and whose proper shipping name is preceded in Column 1 of the Table by the letter "A" or "W", is modified to include "§ 173.203" or "§ 173.213", as appropriate for liquids and solids, respectively, on those occasions when the material is offered for transportation or transported by a mode in which its transportation is not otherwise subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
