
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### ยง 172.101 Purpose and use of hazardous materials table.
######## Column 10: Vessel stowage requirements.

(k)Column 10A [Vessel stowage] specifies the authorized stowage locations on board cargo and passenger vessels. Column 10B [Other provisions] specifies codes for stowage and handling requirements for specific hazardous materials. Hazardous materials offered for transportation as limited quantities are allocated stowage category A and are not subject to the stowage codes assigned by column 10B. The meaning of each code in Column 10B is set forth in ยง 176.84 of this subchapter. Section 176.63 of this subchapter sets forth the physical requirements for each of the authorized locations listed in Column 10A. (For bulk transportation by vessel, see 46 CFR parts 30 to 40, 70, 98, 148, 151, 153 and 154.) The authorized stowage locations specified in Column 10A are defined as follows:

(1) Stowage category "A" means the material may be stowed "on deck" or "under deck" on a cargo vessel or on a passenger vessel.

(2) Stowage category "B" means-

(i) The material may be stowed "on deck" or "under deck" on a cargo vessel and on a passenger vessel carrying a number of passengers limited to not more than the larger of 25 passengers, or one passenger per each 3 m of overall vessel length; and

(ii) "On deck only" on passenger vessels in which the number of passengers specified in paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section is exceeded.

(3) Stowage category "C" means the material must be stowed "on deck only" on a cargo vessel or on a passenger vessel.

(4) Stowage category "D" means the material must be stowed "on deck only" on a cargo vessel or on a passenger vessel carrying a number of passengers limited to not more than the larger of 25 passengers or one passenger per each 3 m of overall vessel length, but the material is prohibited on a passenger vessel in which the limiting number of passengers is exceeded.

(5) Stowage category "E" means the material may be stowed "on deck" or "under deck" on a cargo vessel or on a passenger vessel carrying a number of passengers limited to not more than the larger of 25 passengers, or one passenger per each 3 m of overall vessel length, but is prohibited from carriage on a passenger vessel in which the limiting number of passengers is exceeded.

(6) Stowage category "01" means the material may be stowed "on deck" in closed cargo transport units or "under deck" on a cargo vessel (up to 12 passengers) or on a passenger vessel.

(7) Stowage category "02" means the material may be stowed "on deck" in closed cargo transport units or "under deck" on a cargo vessel (up to 12 passengers) or "on deck" in closed cargo transport units or "under deck" in closed cargo transport units on a passenger vessel.

(8) Stowage category "03" means the material may be stowed "on deck" in closed cargo transport units or "under deck" on a cargo vessel (up to 12 passengers) but the material is prohibited on a passenger vessel.

(9) Stowage category "04" means the material may be stowed "on deck" in closed cargo transport units or "under deck" in closed cargo transports on a cargo vessel (up to 12 passengers) but the material is prohibited on a passenger vessel.

(10) Stowage category "05" means the material may be stowed "on deck" in closed cargo transport units on a cargo vessel (up to 12 passengers) but the material is prohibited on a passenger vessel.
