
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### ยง 172.102 Special provisions.
######## Description of codes for special provisions.

(b)Special provisions contain packaging provisions, prohibitions, exceptions from requirements for particular quantities or forms of materials and requirements or prohibitions applicable to specific modes of transportation, as follows:

(1) A code consisting only of numbers (for example, "11") is multi-modal in application and may apply to bulk and non-bulk packagings.

(2) A code containing the letter "A" refers to a special provision which applies only to transportation by aircraft.

(3) A code containing the letter "B" refers to a special provision that applies only to bulk packaging requirements. Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter, these special provisions do not apply to UN, IM Specification portable tanks or IBCs.

(4) A code containing the letters "IB" or "IP" refers to a special provision that applies only to transportation in IBCs.

(5) A code containing the letter "N" refers to a special provision which applies only to non-bulk packaging requirements.

(6) A code containing the letter "R" refers to a special provision which applies only to transportation by rail.

(7) A code containing the letter "T" refers to a special provision which applies only to transportation in UN or IM Specification portable tanks.

(8) A code containing the letters "TP" refers to a portable tank special provision for UN or IM Specification portable tanks that is in addition to those provided by the portable tank instructions or the requirements in part 178 of this subchapter.

(9) A code containing the letter "W" refers to a special provision that applies only to transportation by water.
