
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### § 172.102 Special provisions.
######## IB Codes and IP Codes.

(4)These provisions apply only to transportation in IBCs and Large Packagings. Table 1 authorizes IBCs for specific proper shipping names through the use of IB Codes assigned in the § 172.101 table of this subchapter. Table 2 defines IP Codes on the use of IBCs that are assigned to specific commodities in the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter. Table 3 authorizes Large Packagings for specific proper shipping names through the use of IB Codes assigned in the § 172.101 table of this subchapter. Large Packagings are authorized for the Packing Group III entries of specific proper shipping names when either special provision IB3 or IB8 is assigned to that entry in the § 172.101 Table. When no IB code is assigned in the § 172.101 Table for a specific proper shipping name, or in § 173.185 or § 173.225(e) Organic Peroxide Table for Type F organic peroxides, use of an IBC or Large Packaging for the material may be authorized when approved by the Associate Administrator. The letter "Z" shown in the marking code for composite IBCs must be replaced with a capital code letter designation found in § 178.702(a)(2) of this subchapter to specify the material used for the other packaging. Tables 1, 2, and 3 follow:
