
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart B - Table of Hazardous Materials and Special Provisions
####### § 172.102 Special provisions.
######## "T" codes.

(7)(i) These provisions apply to the transportation of hazardous materials in UN portable tanks. Portable tank instructions specify the requirements applicable to a portable tank when used for the transportation of a specific hazardous material. These requirements must be met in addition to the design and construction specifications in part 178 of this subchapter. Portable tank instructions T1 through T22 specify the applicable minimum test pressure, the minimum shell thickness (in reference steel), bottom opening requirements and pressure relief requirements. Liquefied compressed gases are assigned to portable tank instruction T50. Refrigerated liquefied gases that are authorized to be transported in portable tanks are specified in tank instruction T75.

(ii) The following table specifies the portable tank requirements applicable to "T" Codes T1 through T22. Column 1 specifies the "T" Code. Column 2 specifies the minimum test pressure, in bar (1 bar = 14.5 psig), at which the periodic hydrostatic testing required by § 180.605 of this subchapter must be conducted. Column 3 specifies the section reference for minimum shell thickness or, alternatively, the minimum shell thickness value. Column 4 specifies the applicability of § 178.275(g)(3) of this subchapter for the pressure relief devices. When the word "Normal" is indicated, § 178.275(g)(3) of this subchapter does not apply. Column 5 references applicable requirements for bottom openings in part 178 of this subchapter. "Prohibited" means bottom openings are prohibited, and "Prohibited for liquids" means bottom openings are authorized for solid material only. The table follows:

(iii) T50 When portable tank instruction T50 is indicated in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Hazardous Materials Table, the applicable liquefied compressed gas and chemical under pressure descriptions are authorized to be transported in portable tanks in accordance with the requirements of § 173.313 of this subchapter.
