
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart C - Shipping Papers
####### ยง 172.202 Description of hazardous material on shipping papers.
######## e.g.,

(4) The packing group in Roman numerals, as designated for the hazardous material in Column (5) of the ยง 172.101 table. Class 1 (explosives) materials; self-reactive substances; Division 5.2 materials; and entries that are not assigned a packing group (Class 7) are excepted from this requirement. The packing group may be preceded by the letters "PG" (for example, "PG II"); and

(5) Except for transportation by aircraft, the total quantity of hazardous materials covered by the description must be indicated (by mass or volume, or by activity for Class 7 materials) and must include an indication of the applicable unit of measurement, for example, "200 kg" (440 pounds) or "50 L" (13 gallons). The following provisions also apply:

(i) For Class 1 materials, the quantity must be the net explosive mass. For an explosive that is an article, such as Cartridges, small arms, the net explosive mass may be expressed in terms of the net mass of either the article or the explosive materials contained in the article.

(ii) For hazardous materials in salvage packaging, an estimate of the total quantity is acceptable.

(iii) The following are excepted from the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section:

(A) Bulk packages, provided some indication of the total quantity is shown, for example, "1 cargo tank" or "2 IBCs."

(B) Cylinders, provided some indication of the total quantity is shown, for example, "10 cylinders."

(C) Packages containing only residue.

(6) For transportation by aircraft, the total net mass per package, must be shown unless a gross mass is indicated in Columns (9A) or (9B) of the ยง 172.101 table in which case the total gross mass per package must be shown; or, for Class 7 materials, the quantity of radioactive material must be shown by activity. The following provisions also apply:

(i) For empty uncleaned packaging, only the number and type of packaging must be shown;

(ii) For chemical kits and first aid kits, the total net mass of hazardous materials must be shown. Where the kits contain only liquids, or solids and liquids, the net mass of liquids within the kits is to be calculated on a 1 to 1 basis, i.e., 1 L (0.3 gallons) equals 1 kg (2.2 pounds);

(iii) For dangerous goods in machinery or apparatus, the individual total quantities or an estimate of the individual total quantities of dangerous goods in solid, liquid or gaseous state, contained in the article must be shown;

(iv) For dangerous goods transported in a salvage packaging, an estimate of the quantity of dangerous goods per package must be shown;

(v) For cylinders, total quantity may be indicated by the number of cylinders, for example, "10 cylinders;"
