
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart C - Shipping Papers
####### § 172.202 Description of hazardous material on shipping papers.
######## e.g.

(vi) For items where "No Limit" is shown in Column (9A) or (9B) of the § 172.101 table, the quantity shown must be the net mass or volume of the material. For articles (, UN2800 and UN3166) the quantity must be the gross mass, followed by the letter "G"; and

(vii) For hazardous materials in limited quantities, the total net quantity per package must be shown unless a gross mass is indicated in Column 4 of § 173.27 Table 3, in which case the total gross mass per package must be shown. Where different hazardous materials in limited quantities are packed together in the same outer packaging, when a gross mass is indicated Column 4 of § 173.27 Table 3, the net quantity of each hazardous material must be shown in addition to the gross mass of the completed package.

(viii) For authorized consumer commodities, the information provided may be either the gross mass of each package or the average gross mass of the packages.

(7) The number and type of packages must be indicated. The type of packages must be indicated by description of the package (for example, "12 drums"). Indication of the packaging specification number ("1H1") may be included in the description of the package (for example, "12 1H1 drums" or "12 drums (UN 1A1)"). Abbreviations may be used for indicating packaging types (for example, "cyl." for "cylinder") provided the abbreviations are commonly accepted and recognizable.

(b) Except as provided in this subpart, the basic description specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section must be shown in sequence with no additional information interspersed. For example, "UN2744, Cyclobutyl chloroformate, 6.1, (8, 3), PG II." Shipping descriptions for hazardous materials offered or intended for transportation by rail that contain all the information required in this subpart and that are formatted and ordered in accordance with recognized electronic data interchange standards and, to the extent possible, in the order and manner required by this subpart are deemed to comply with this paragraph.

(c)(1) The total quantity of the material covered by one description must appear before or after, or both before and after, the description required and authorized by this subpart. The type of packaging and destination marks may be entered in any appropriate manner before or after the basic description. Abbreviations may be used to express units of measurement and types of packagings.

(2) Hazardous materials and hazardous substances transported by highway considered "household wastes" as defined in 40 CFR 261.4, and not subject to the Environmental Protection Agency's hazardous waste regulations in 40 CFR parts 262 and 263, are excepted from the requirements of this paragraph.

(d) Technical and chemical group names may be entered in parentheses between the proper shipping name and hazard class or following the basic description. An appropriate modifier, such as "contains" or "containing," and/or the percentage of the technical constituent may also be used. For example: "UN 1993, Flammable liquids, n.o.s. (contains Xylene and Benzene), 3, II".

(e) Except for those materials in the UN Recommendations, the ICAO Technical Instructions, or the IMDG Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), a material that is not a hazardous material according to this subchapter may not be offered for transportation or transported when its description on a shipping paper includes a hazard class or an identification number specified in the § 172.101 Table.
