
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart C - Shipping Papers
####### § 172.203 Additional description requirements.
######## e.g.,,e.g.,

(3) The maximum activity of the radioactive contents contained in each package during transport in terms of the appropriate SI units (Becquerels (Bq), Terabecquerels (TBq)). The activity may also be stated in appropriate customary units (Curies (Ci), milliCuries (mCi), microCuries (uCi)) in parentheses following the SI units. Abbreviations are authorized. Except for plutonium-239 and plutonium-241, the weight in grams or kilograms of fissile radionuclides (or the mass of each fissile nuclide for mixtures when appropriate) may be inserted instead of activity units. For plutonium-239 and plutonium-241, the weight in grams of fissile radionuclides (or the mass of each fissile nuclide for mixtures when appropriate) may be inserted in addition to the activity units.

(4) The category of label applied to each package in the shipment. For example: "RADIOACTIVE WHITE-I," or "WHITE-I."

(5) The transport index assigned to each package in the shipment bearing RADIOACTIVE YELLOW-II or RADIOACTIVE YELLOW-III labels.

(6) For a package containing fissile Class 7 (radioactive) material:

(i) The words "Fissile Excepted" if the package is excepted pursuant to § 173.453 of this subchapter; or otherwise

(ii) The criticality safety index for that package.

(7) For a package approved by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) or U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), a notation of the package identification marking as prescribed in the applicable DOE or NRC approval (see § 173.471 of the subchapter).

(8) For an export shipment or a shipment in a foreign made package, a notation of the package identification marking as prescribed in the applicable International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Certificate of Competent Authority which has been issued for the package (see § 173.473 of the subchapter).

(9) For a shipment required by this subchapter to be consigned as exclusive use:

(i) An indication that the shipment is consigned as exclusive use; or

(ii) If all the descriptions on the shipping paper are consigned as exclusive use, then the statement "Exclusive Use Shipment" may be entered only once on the shipping paper in a clearly visible location.

(10) For the shipment of a package containing a highway route controlled quantity of Class 7 (radioactive) materials (see § 173.403 of this subchapter) the words "Highway route controlled quantity" or "HRCQ" must be entered in association with the basic description.
