
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart C - Shipping Papers
####### ยง 172.203 Additional description requirements.
######## Transportation by water.

(i)Each shipment by water must have the following additional shipping paper entries:

(1) The name of the shipper.

(2) A minimum flashpoint, if 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F) or below (in &#xB0;C closed cup (c.c.)), in association with the basic description, for Class 3 flammable liquid materials (as a primary or subsidiary hazard). For lab packs packaged in conformance with ยง 173.12(b) of this subchapter, an indication that the lowest flashpoint of all hazardous materials contained in the lab pack is below 23 &#xB0;C or that the flash point is not less than 23 &#xB0;C but not more than 60 &#xB0;C must be identified on the shipping paper in lieu of the minimum flashpoint.

(3) For a hazardous material consigned under an "n.o.s." entry not included in the segregation groups listed in section 3.1.4 of the IMDG Code (IBR see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter) but belonging, in the opinion of the consignor, to one of these groups, the appropriate segregation group must be shown in association with the basic description (for example, IMDG Code segregation group-1 Acids). When no segregation group is applicable, there is no requirement to indicate that condition.

(4) For lithium cells or batteries transported in accordance with ยง 173.185(f), "DAMAGED/DEFECTIVE"; and for lithium cells or batteries transported for purposes of disposal or recycling, "LITHIUM BATTERIES FOR DISPOSAL" or "LITHIUM BATTERIES FOR RECYCLING", as appropriate.

(j) [Reserved]
