
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart C - Shipping Papers
####### § 172.203 Additional description requirements.
######## Technical names for "n.o.s." and other generic descriptions.

(k)Unless otherwise excepted, if a material is described on a shipping paper by one of the proper shipping names identified by the letter "G" in column (1) of the § 172.101 Table, the technical name of the hazardous material must be entered in parentheses in association with the basic description. For example "UN 1760, Corrosive liquid, n.o.s., (Octanoyl chloride), 8, II", or "UN 1760, Corrosive liquid, n.o.s., 8, II (contains Octanoyl chloride)". The word "contains" may be used in association with the technical name, if appropriate. For organic peroxides which may qualify for more than one generic listing depending on concentration, the technical name must include the actual concentration being shipped or the concentration range for the appropriate generic listing. For example, "UN 3102, Organic peroxide type B, solid, 5.2, (dibenzoyl peroxide, 52-100%)" or "UN 3108, Organic peroxide type E, solid, 5.2, (dibenzoyl peroxide, paste, <52%)". Shipping descriptions for toxic materials that meet the criteria of Division 6.1, PG I or II (as specified in § 173.132(a) of this subchapter) or Division 2.3 (as specified in § 173.115(c) of this subchapter) and are identified by the letter "G" in column (1) of the § 172.101 Table, must have the technical name of the toxic constituent entered in parentheses in association with the basic description. A material classed as Division 6.2 and assigned identification number UN 2814 or UN 2900 that is suspected to contain an unknown Category A infectious substance must have the words "suspected Category A infectious substance" entered in parentheses in place of the technical name as part of the proper shipping description. For additional technical name options, see the definition for "Technical name" in § 171.8. A technical name should not be marked on the outer package of a Division 6.2 material (see § 172.301(b)).

(1) If a hazardous material is a mixture or solution of two or more hazardous materials, the technical names of at least two components most predominately contributing to the hazards of the mixture or solution must be entered on the shipping paper as required by paragraph (k) of this section. For example, "UN 2924, Flammable liquid, corrosive, n.o.s., 3 (8), II (contains Methanol, Potassium hydroxide)".

(2) The provisions of this paragraph do not apply-
