
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart C - Shipping Papers
####### ยง 172.205 Hazardous waste manifest.
######## Transportation by rail.

(f)Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the following requirements apply:

(1) When accepting hazardous waste from a non-rail transporter, the initial rail transporter must:

(i) Sign and date the manifest acknowledging acceptance of the hazardous waste;

(ii) Return a signed copy of the manifest to the non-rail transporter;

(iii) Forward at least three copies of the manifest to:

(A) The next non-rail transporter, if any;

(B) The designated facility, if the shipment is delivered to that facility by rail; or

(C) The last rail transporter designated to handle the waste in the United States; and

(iv) Retain one copy of the manifest and rail shipping paper in accordance with 40 CFR 263.22.

(2) Rail transporters must ensure that a shipping paper containing all the information required on the manifest (excluding the EPA identification numbers, generator certification and signatures) and, for exports, an EPA Acknowledgment of Consent accompanies the hazardous waste at all times. Intermediate rail transporters are not required to sign either the manifest or shipping paper.

(3) When delivering hazardous waste to the designated facility, a rail transporter must:

(i) Obtain the date of delivery and handwritten signature of the owner or operator of the designated facility on the manifest or the shipping paper (if the manifest has not been received by the facility); and

(ii) Retain a copy of the manifest or signed shipping paper in accordance with 40 CFR 263.22.

(4) When delivering hazardous waste to a non-rail transporter, a rail transporter must:

(i) Obtain the date of delivery and the handwritten signature of the next non-rail transporter on the manifest; and

(ii) Retain a copy of the manifest in accordance with 40 CFR 263.22.

(5) Before accepting hazardous waste from a rail transporter, a non-rail transporter must sign and date the manifest and provide a copy to the rail transporter.

(g) The person delivering a hazardous waste to an initial rail carrier shall send a copy of the manifest, dated and signed by a representative of the rail carrier, to the person representing the designated facility.

(h) A hazardous waste manifest required by 40 CFR part 262, containing all of the information required by this subpart, may be used as the shipping paper required by this subpart.

(i) The shipping description for a hazardous waste must be modified as required by ยง 172.101(c)(9).

(j) Electronic manifests that are obtained, completed, and transmitted in accordance with 40 CFR262.20(a)(3), and used in accordance with 40 CFR 262.24 in lieu of EPA Forms 8700-22 and 8700-22A are the legal equivalent of paper manifest forms bearing handwritten signatures, and satisfy for all purposes any requirements in these regulations to obtain, complete, sign, provide, use, or retain a manifest. Electronic signatures in conformance with 40 CFR 262.25 are therefore acceptable in lieu of handwritten signatures required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section provided one printed copy of the electronic manifest bearing the electronic signature is provided to the initial transporter as required by 40 CFR 262.24(d). A copy of the electronic manifest would satisfy the 3-year retention requirement for maintaining a copy of the manifest.
