
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart D - Marking
####### § 172.302 General marking requirements for bulk packagings.
######## Special permit packagings.

(c)Except as provided in § 173.23 of this subchapter, the outside of each package used under the terms of a special permit must be plainly and durably marked "DOT-SP" followed by the special permit number assigned. Packages authorized by an exemption issued prior to October 1, 2007 may be plainly and durably marked "DOT-E" in lieu of "DOT-SP" followed by the number assigned as specified in the most recent version of that exemption.

(d) Each bulk packaging marked with a proper shipping name, common name or identification number as required by this subpart must remain marked when it is emptied unless it is-

(1) Sufficiently cleaned of residue and purged of vapors to remove any potential hazard; or

(2) Refilled, with a material requiring different markings or no markings, to such an extent that any residue remaining in the packaging is no longer hazardous.

(e) Additional requirements for marking portable tanks, cargo tanks, tank cars, multi-unit tank car tanks, and other bulk packagings are prescribed in §§ 172.326, 172.328, 172.330, and 172.331, respectively, of this subpart.

(f) A bulk packaging marked prior to October 1, 1991, in conformance to the regulations of this subchapter in effect on September 30, 1991, need not be remarked if the key words of the proper shipping name are identical to those currently specified in the § 172.101 table. For example, a tank car marked "NITRIC OXIDE" need not be remarked "NITRIC OXIDE, COMPRESSED".

(g) A rail car, freight container, truck body or trailer in which the lading has been fumigated with any hazardous material, or is undergoing fumigation, must be marked as specified in § 173.9 of this subchapter.
