
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.34 Delegations to the Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs.

The Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs is delegated authority to:

(a) Serve as the Department's Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 901 (Establishment of Agency Chief Financial Officers).

(b) Exercise day-to-day operating management responsibility over the Office of Budget and Program Performance, the Office of the OST Chief Financial Officer, the Office of Financial Management, and the Office of Credit Oversight and Risk Management.

(c) Direct and manage the Departmental planning, evaluation, budget, financial management, and internal control activities.

(d) Exercise oversight and provide exclusive policy guidance to the Enterprise Services Center (ESC) regarding all financial management activities conducted by ESC and financial systems operated by ESC. This authority includes concurrence with any organizational changes within the Federal Aviation Administration that may affect financial management operations of the ESC.

(e) Request apportionment or reapportionment of funds by the Office of Management and Budget, provided that no request for apportionment or reapportionment which anticipates the need for a supplemental appropriation shall be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget without appropriate certification by the Secretary.

(f) Issue allotments or allocations of funds to components of the Department.

(g) Authorize and approve official travel and transportation for staff members of the Immediate Office of the Secretary including authority to sign and approve related travel orders and travel vouchers, but not including requests for overseas travel.

(h) Issue monetary authorizations for use of reception and representation funds.

(i) Except as otherwise delegated, establish or operate or both, any special funds that are required by statute or administrative determination.

(j) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 31 U.S.C. 3711 to collect, compromise, suspend collection action on, or terminate claims of the United States which are referred to, or arise out of the activities of, the Office of the Secretary (excluding claims pertaining to the Working Capital Fund), subject to the limits on that authority imposed by 31 U.S.C. 3711 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR chapter IX.

(k) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-204) (33 U.S.C. 3301 note).

(l) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-300) (31 U.S.C. 3321 note).

(m) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Recovery Auditing Act (Section 831, Defense Authorization Act for FY 2002 (Pub. L. 107-107)).

(n) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3512 note).

(o) Exercise the Secretary's authority under Federal Managers' Financial Integrity Act of 1982 (FMFIA) (31 U.S.C. 3512 note).

(p) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Accounting and Auditing Act of 1950 (31 U.S.C. 3512), as amended by FMFIA.

(q) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) (Pub. L. 103-623).

(r) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002, 31 U.S.C. 3515.

(s) Exercise the Secretary's authority under the Government Management Reform Act of 1994 (GMRA) (Pub. L. 103-356).

(t) Exercise the Secretary's authority under 5 U.S.C. 5584 and the OMB memorandum, "Determination with Respect to Transfer of Functions Pursuant to Public Law 104-316" (December 17, 1996) to waive claims of the United States arising out of an erroneous payment to an employee of pay or allowances, or travel, transportation, or relocation expenses and allowances, and deny requests for waiver of such claims.

(u) Serve as the Department's Performance Improvement Officer under 31 U.S.C. 1124.
