
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart D - Marking
####### ยง 172.322 Marine pollutants.
######## see

(1) For a proper shipping name used to describe a hazardous material that is a marine pollutant and assigned the letter "G" in column (1) of the ยง 172.101 hazardous materials table or that contains the text "n.o.s.," the name of the component which makes the material a marine pollutant must be marked on the package in parentheses in association with the marked proper shipping name unless the proper shipping name identifies by name the component which makes the material a marine pollutant. Where two or more components that make a material a marine pollutant are present, the names of at least two of the components most predominantly contributing to the marine pollutant designation must appear in parentheses in association with the marked proper shipping name. For materials described using "UN3077, Environmentally hazardous substance, solid, n.o.s." and "UN3082, Environmentally hazardous substance, liquid, n.o.s.,"ยง 172.102(c)(1), special provision 441 for additional provisions; and

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the MARINE POLLUTANT mark shall be placed in association with the hazard warning labels required by subpart E of this part or, in the absence of any labels, in association with the marked proper shipping name.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, a bulk packaging that contains a marine pollutant must-

(1) Be marked with the MARINE POLLUTANT mark on at least two opposing sides or two ends other than the bottom if the packaging has a capacity of less than 3,785 L (1,000 gallons). The mark must be visible from the direction it faces. The mark may be displayed in black lettering on a square-on-point configuration having the same outside dimensions as a placard; or

(2) Be marked on each end and each side with the MARINE POLLUTANT mark if the packaging has a capacity of 3,785 L (1,000 gallons) or more. The mark must be visible from the direction it faces. The mark may be displayed in black lettering on a square-on-point configuration having the same outside dimensions as a placard.

(c) A transport vehicle or freight container that contains a package subject to the marking requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must be marked with the MARINE POLLUTANT mark. The mark must appear on each side and each end of the transport vehicle or freight container, and must be visible from the direction it faces. This requirement may be met by the marking displayed on a freight container or portable tank loaded on a motor vehicle or rail car. This mark may be displayed in black lettering on a white square-on-point configuration having the same outside dimensions as a placard.

(d) The MARINE POLLUTANT mark is not required-

(1) On single packagings or combination packagings where each single package or each inner packaging of combination packagings has:

(i) A net quantity of 5 L (1.3 gallons) or less for liquids; or

(ii) A net mass of 5 kg (11 pounds) or less for solids

(2) On a combination packaging containing a marine pollutant, other than a severe marine pollutant, in inner packagings each of which contains:

(i) 5 L (1.3 gallons) or less net capacity for liquids; or

(ii) 5 kg (11 pounds) or less net capacity for solids.

(3) Except for transportation by vessel, on a bulk packaging, freight container or transport vehicle that bears a label or placard specified in subparts E or F of this part.

(4) On a package of limited quantity material marked in accordance with ยง 172.315 of this part.
