
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart D - Marking
####### ยง 172.322 Marine pollutants.
######## MARINE POLLUTANT mark.

(e)The MARINE POLLUTANT mark must conform to the following:

(1) Except for size, the MARINE POLLUTANT mark must appear as follows:

(2) The marking must be in the form of a square-on-point. The symbol and border must be black on a white or suitable contrasting background. The width of the border forming the square-on-point marking must be at least 2 mm. Each side of the mark must be-

(i) At least 100 mm (3.9 inches) as measured from the outside of the lines forming the border for marks applied to:

(A) Non-bulk packages, except in the case of packages which, because of their size, can only bear smaller marks. If the size of the package so requires, the dimensions/line thickness may be reduced, provided the marking remains clearly visible. Where dimensions are not specified, all features shall be in approximate proportion to those shown.

(B) Bulk packages with a capacity of less than 3,785 L (1,000 gallons); or

(ii) At least 250 mm (9.8 inches) for marks applied to all other bulk packages.
