
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart D - Marking
####### ยง 172.323 Infectious substances.

(a) In addition to other requirements of this subpart, a bulk packaging containing a regulated medical waste, as defined in ยง 173.134(a)(5) of this subchapter, must be marked with a BIOHAZARD marking conforming to 29 CFR 1910.1030(g)(1)(i)-

(1) On two opposing sides or two ends other than the bottom if the packaging has a capacity of less than 3,785 L (1,000 gallons). The BIOHAZARD marking must measure at least 152.4 mm (6 inches) on each side and must be visible from the direction it faces.

(2) On each end and each side if the packaging has a capacity of 3,785 L (1,000 gallons) or more. The BIOHAZARD marking must measure at least 152.4 mm (6 inches) on each side and must be visible from the direction it faces.

(b) For a bulk packaging contained in or on a transport vehicle or freight container, if the BIOHAZARD marking on the bulk packaging is not visible, the transport vehicle or freight container must be marked as required by paragraph (a) of this section on each side and each end.

(c) The background color for the BIOHAZARD marking required by paragraph (a) of this section must be orange and the symbol and letters must be black. Except for size the BIOHAZARD marking must appear as follows:

(d) The BIOHAZARD marking required by paragraph (a) of this section must be displayed on a background of contrasting color. It may be displayed on a plain white square-on-point configuration having the same outside dimensions as a placard, as specified in ยง 172.519(c) of this part.
