
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart D - Marking
####### ยง 172.332 Identification number markings.
######## Placards.

(c)Display of an identification number on a hazard warning placard shall be in conformance with the following:

(1) The identification number shall be displayed across the center area of the placard in 88 mm (3.5 inches) black Alpine Gothic or Alternate Gothic No. 3 numerals on a white background 100 mm (3.9 inches) high and approximately 215 mm (8.5 inches) wide and may be outlined with a solid or dotted line border.

(2) The top of the 100 mm (3.9 inches) high white background shall be approximately 40 mm (1.6 inches) above the placard horizontal center line.

(3) An identification number may be displayed only on a placard corresponding to the primary hazard class of the hazardous material.

(4) For a COMBUSTIBLE placard used to display an identification number, the entire background below the white background for the identification number must be white during transportation by rail and may be white during transportation by highway.

(5) The name of the hazardous material and the hazard class may be shown in letters not more than 18 points high immediately within the upper border of the space on the placard bearing the identification number of the material.

(6) If an identification number is placed over the word(s) on a placard, the word(s) should be substantially covered to maximize the effectiveness of the identification number.
