
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart D - Marking
####### § 172.334 Identification numbers; prohibited display.

(a) No person may display an identification number on a RADIOACTIVE, EXPLOSIVES 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 or 1.6, DANGEROUS, or subsidiary hazard placard.

(b) No person may display an identification number on a placard, orange panel or white square-on-point display configuration unless-

(1) The identification number is specified for the material in § 172.101;

(2) The identification number is displayed on the placard, orange panel or white square-on-point configuration authorized by § 172.332 or § 172.336(b), as appropriate, and any placard used for display of the identification number corresponds to the hazard class of the material specified in § 172.504;

(3) Except as provided under § 172.336 (c)(4) or (c)(5), the package, freight container, or transport vehicle on which the number is displayed contains the hazardous material associated with that identification number in § 172.101.

(c) Except as required by § 172.332(c)(4) for a combustible liquid, the identification number of a material may be displayed only on the placards required by the tables in § 172.504.

(d) Except as provided in § 172.336, a placard bearing an identification number may not be used to meet the requirements of subpart F of this part unless it is the correct identification number for all hazardous materials of the same class in the transport vehicle or freight container on which it is displayed.

(e) Except as specified in § 172.338, an identification number may not be displayed on an orange panel on a cargo tank unless affixed to the cargo tank by the person offering the hazardous material for transportation in the cargo tank.

(f) If a placard is required by § 172.504, an identification number may not be displayed on an orange panel unless it is displayed in proximity to the placard.

(g) No person shall add any color, number, letter, symbol, or word other than as specified in this subchapter, to any identification number marking display which is required or authorized by this subchapter.
