
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart E - Labeling
####### § 172.407 Label specifications.
######## Size.

(c)(1) Each diamond (square-on-point) label prescribed in this subpart must be at least 100 mm (3.9 inches) on each side with each side having a solid line inner border approximately 5 mm (.2 inches) inside and parallel to the edge. The 5 mm (.2 inches) measurement is from the outside edge of the label to the outside of the solid line forming the inner border.

(i) If the size of the package so requires, the dimensions of the label and its features may be reduced proportionally provided the symbol and other elements of the label remain clearly visible.

(ii) Where dimensions are not specified, all features shall be in approximate proportion to those shown in §§ 172.411 through 172.448 of this subpart, as appropriate.

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) For domestic transportation, a packaging labeled prior to January 1, 2017, and in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue in service until the end of its useful life.

(2) The CARGO AIRCRAFT ONLY label must be a rectangle measuring at least 110 mm (4.3 inches) in height by 120 mm (4.7 inches) in width. The words "CARGO AIRCRAFT ONLY" must be shown in letters measuring at least 6.3 mm (0.25 inches) in height.

(3) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the hazard class number, or division number, as appropriate, must be at least 6.3 mm (0.25 inches) and not greater than 12.7 mm (0.5 inches).

(4) When text indicating a hazard is displayed on a label, the label name must be shown in letters measuring at least 7.6 mm (0.3 inches) in height. For SPONTANEOUSLY COMBUSTIBLE or DANGEROUS WHEN WET labels, the words "Spontaneously" and "When Wet" must be shown in letters measuring at least 5.1 mm (0.2 inches) in height.

(5) The symbol on each label must be proportionate in size to that shown in the appropriate section of this subpart.
