
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart E - Labeling
####### ยง 172.407 Label specifications.
######## Transitional exception.

(B)A label in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue to be used until December 31, 2016.

(C) For domestic transportation, a packaging labeled prior to January 1, 2017 and in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue in service until the end of its useful life.

(iv) The FLAMMABLE GAS label displayed on cylinders and gas cartridges for liquefied petroleum gases may be shown in the background color of the receptacle if adequate contrast is provided.

(3) Black and any color on a label must be able to withstand, without substantial change, a 72-hour fadeometer test (for a description of equipment designed for this purpose, see ASTM G 23-69 (1975) or ASTM G 26-70).

(4)(i) A color on a label, upon visual examination, must fall within the color tolerances-

(A) Displayed on color charts conforming to the technical specifications for charts set forth in table 1 or 2 in appendix A to this part; or

(B) For labels printed on packaging surfaces, specified in table 3 in appendix A to this part.

(ii) Color charts conforming to appendix A to this part are on display at the Standards and Rulemaking Division, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, East Building, 2nd Floor, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.

(5) The following color standards in the PANTONE &#xAE; formula guide coated/uncoated (see ยง 171.7(b) of this subchapter) may be used to achieve the required colors on markings and hazard warning labels and placards:

(i) For Red-Use PANTONE &#xAE; 186 U

(ii) For Orange-Use PANTONE &#xAE; 151 U

(iii) For Yellow-Use PANTONE &#xAE; 109 U

(iv) For Green-Use PANTONE &#xAE; 335 U

(v) For Blue-Use PANTONE &#xAE; 285 U

(vi) For Purple-Use PANTONE &#xAE; 259 U

(6) Where specific colors from the PANTONE MATCHING SYSTEM &#xAE; are applied as opaque coatings, such as paint, enamel, or plastic, or where labels are printed directly on the surface of a packaging, a spectrophotometer or other instrumentation must be used to ensure a proper match with the color standards in the PANTONE &#xAE; formula guide coated/uncoated for colors prescribed in paragraph (d)(5) of this section. PANTONE &#xAE; is the property of Pantone, Inc.

(7) The specified label color must extend to the edge of the label in the area designated on each label, except for the CORROSIVE, RADIOACTIVE YELLOW-II, and RADIOACTIVE YELLOW-III labels on which the color must extend only to the inner border.
