
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart E - Labeling
####### ยง 172.411 EXPLOSIVE 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 labels, and EXPLOSIVE Subsidiary label.

(a) Except for size and color, the EXPLOSIVE 1.1, EXPLOSIVE 1.2 and EXPLOSIVE 1.3 labels must be as follows:

(b) In addition to complying with ยง 172.407, the background color on the EXPLOSIVE 1.1, EXPLOSIVE 1.2 and EXPLOSIVE 1.3 labels must be orange. The "**" must be replaced with the appropriate division number and compatibility group letter. The compatibility group letter must be the same size as the division number and must be shown as a capitalized Roman letter.

(c) Except for size and color, the EXPLOSIVE 1.4, EXPLOSIVE 1.5 and EXPLOSIVE 1.6 labels must be as follows:

(d) In addition to complying with ยง 172.407, the background color on the EXPLOSIVE 1.4, EXPLOSIVE 1.5 and EXPLOSIVE 1.6 label must be orange. The "*" must be replaced with the appropriate compatibility group. The compatibility group letter must be shown as a capitalized Roman letter. Division numbers must measure at least 30 mm (1.2 inches) in height and at least 5 mm (0.2 inches) in width.

(e) An EXPLOSIVE subsidiary label is required for materials identified in Column (6) of the HMT as having an explosive subsidiary hazard. The division number or compability group letter may be displayed on the subsidiary hazard label. Except for size and color, the EXPLOSIVE subsidiary label must be as follows:

(f) The EXPLOSIVE subsidiary label must comply with ยง 172.407.
