
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart F - Placarding
####### § 172.519 General specifications for placards.
######## Design.

(b)(1) Except as provided in § 172.332 of this part, each placard must be as described in this subpart, and except for size and color, the printing, inner border and symbol must be as shown in §§ 172.521 through 172.560 of this subpart, as appropriate.

(2) The dotted line border shown on each placard is not part of the placard specification. However, a dotted or solid line outer border may be used when needed to indicate the full size of a placard that is part of a larger format or is on a background of a non-contrasting color.

(3) For other than Class 7 or the DANGEROUS placard, text indicating a hazard (for example, "FLAMMABLE") is not required. Text may be omitted from the OXYGEN placard only if the specific identification number is displayed on the placard.

(4) For a placard corresponding to the primary or subsidiary hazard class of a material, the hazard class or division number must be displayed in the lower corner of the placard. However, a permanently affixed subsidiary placard meeting the specifications of this section which were in effect on October 1, 2001, (such as, a placard without the hazard class or division number displayed in the lower corner of the placard) and which was installed prior to September 30, 2001, may continue to be used as a subsidiary placard in domestic transportation by rail or highway, provided the color tolerances are maintained and are in accordance with the display requirements in this subchapter.
