
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart I - Safety and Security Plans
####### ยง 172.800 Purpose and applicability.
######## Applicability.

(b)Each person who offers for transportation in commerce or transports in commerce one or more of the following hazardous materials must develop and adhere to a transportation security plan for hazardous materials that conforms to the requirements of this subpart. As used in this section, "large bulk quantity" refers to a quantity greater than 3,000 kg (6,614 pounds) for solids or 3,000 liters (792 gallons) for liquids and gases in a single packaging such as a cargo tank motor vehicle, portable tank, tank car, or other bulk container.

(1) Any quantity of a Division 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3 material.

(2) A quantity of a Division 1.4, 1.5, or 1.6 material requiring placarding in accordance with subpart F of this part.

(3) A large bulk quantity of Division 2.1 material.

(4) A large bulk quantity of Division 2.2 material with a subsidiary hazard of 5.1.

(5) Any quantity of a material poisonous by inhalation, as defined in ยง 171.8 of this subchapter.

(6) A large bulk quantity of a Class 3 material meeting the criteria for Packing Group I or II.

(7) A quantity of desensitized explosives meeting the definition of Division 4.1 or Class 3 material requiring placarding in accordance with subpart F of this part.

(8) A large bulk quantity of a Division 4.2 material meeting the criteria for Packing Group I or II.

(9) A quantity of a Division 4.3 material requiring placarding in accordance with subpart F of this part.

(10) A large bulk quantity of a Division 5.1 material in Packing Groups I and II; perchlorates; or ammonium nitrate, ammonium nitrate fertilizers, or ammonium nitrate emulsions, suspensions, or gels.

(11) Any quantity of organic peroxide, Type B, liquid or solid, temperature controlled.

(12) A large bulk quantity of Division 6.1 material (for a material poisonous by inhalation see paragraph (5) above).

(13) A select agent or toxin regulated by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention under 42 CFR part 73 or the U.S. Department of Agriculture under 9 CFR part 121.

(14) A quantity of uranium hexafluoride requiring placarding under ยง 172.505(b).

(15) International Atomic Energy Agency Code of Conduct (IBR, see ยง 171.7) Category 1 and 2 materials, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Category 1 and Category 2 radioactive materials as listed in Table 1, appendix A to 10 CFR part 37, and Highway Route Controlled quantities as defined in 49 CFR 173.403.

(16) A large bulk quantity of Class 8 material meeting the criteria for Packing Group I.
