
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 172 - HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TABLE, SPECIAL PROVISIONS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COMMUNICATIONS, EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION, TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, AND SECURITY PLANS
###### Subpart I - Safety and Security Plans
####### ยง 172.820 Additional planning requirements for transportation by rail.
######## Storage, delays in transit, and notification.

(h)With respect to the materials specified in paragraph (a) of this section, each rail carrier must ensure the safety and security plan it develops and implements under this subpart includes all of the following:

(1) A procedure under which the rail carrier must consult with offerors and consignees in order to develop measures for minimizing, to the extent practicable, the duration of any storage of the material incidental to movement (see ยง 171.8 of this subchapter).

(2) Measures to prevent unauthorized access to the materials during storage or delays in transit.

(3) Measures to mitigate risk to population centers associated with in-transit storage.

(4) Measures to be taken in the event of an escalating threat level for materials stored in transit.

(5) Procedures for notifying the consignee in the event of a significant delay during transportation; such notification must be completed within 48 hours after the carrier has identified the delay and must include a revised delivery schedule. A significant delay is one that compromises the safety or security of the hazardous material or delays the shipment beyond its normal expected or planned shipping time. Notification should be made by a method acceptable to both the rail carrier and consignee.
