
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 173.3 Packaging and exceptions.
######## Salvage drums.

(c)Packages of hazardous materials that are damaged, defective, or leaking; packages found to be not conforming to the requirements of this subchapter after having been placed in transportation; and, hazardous materials that have spilled or leaked may be placed in a metal or plastic removable head salvage drum that is compatible with the lading and shipped for repackaging or disposal under the following conditions:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, the drum must be a UN 1A2, 1B2, 1N2 or 1H2 tested and marked for Packing Group III or higher performance standards for liquids or solids and a leakproofness test of 20 kPa (3 psig). Alternatively, a drum manufactured and marked prior to October 1, 1993 as a salvage drum, in accordance with the provisions of this section in effect on September 30, 1991, is authorized. Capacity of the drum may not exceed 450 L (119 gallons).

(2) Each drum shall be provided when necessary with sufficient cushioning and absorption material to prevent excessive shifting of the damaged package and to eliminate the presence of any free liquid at the time the salvage drum is closed. All cushioning and absorbent material used in the drum must be compatible with the hazardous material.

(3) Each salvage packaging must be marked with the proper shipping name of the hazardous material inside the packaging and the name and address of the consignee. In addition, the packaging must be marked "SALVAGE". The lettering of the marking must be at least 12 mm (0.5 inches) high.
