
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 173.3 Packaging and exceptions.
######## see

(i) Must be designed, constructed and marked in accordance with Section VIII, Division I of the ASME Code (IBR,ยง 171.7 of this subchapter) with a minimum design margin of 4 to 1. Salvage cylinders may not be equipped with a pressure relief device. Damaged cylinders must be securely positioned in the salvage cylinder to prevent excessive shifting. The overpack requirements of ยง 173.25 do not apply to salvage cylinders used in accordance with this section.

(ii) Must have a maximum water capacity of 450 L (119 gallons).

(iii) Except for liquefied nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide, contents of the damaged or leaking cylinder must be limited in pressure and volume so that if totally discharged into the salvage cylinder, the pressure in the salvage cylinder will not exceedof the MAWP at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F).

(iv) Must have gaskets, valves and fittings that are compatible with the hazardous materials contained within.

(3) Each salvage cylinder must be plainly and durably marked. Unless otherwise specified, the markings below must be in the same area on any portion of the upper end:

(i) The proper shipping name of the hazardous material contained inside the packaging;

(ii) The name and address of the consignee or consignor;

(iii) The name and address or registered symbol of the manufacturer; and

(iv) The word "SALVAGE" in letters at least 12 mm (0.5 inches) high on opposite sides near the middle of the cylinder; stamping on the sidewall is not authorized.
