
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 173.3 Packaging and exceptions.
######## Large salvage packagings.

(f)Except for transportation by air, packages of hazardous materials that are damaged, defective, or leaking; packages found to be not conforming to the requirements of this subchapter after having been placed in transportation; and, hazardous materials that have spilled or leaked may be placed in a large salvage packaging that is compatible with the lading and shipped for repackaging or disposal under the following conditions:

(1) Large salvage packagings must be tested and marked in accordance with part 178, subparts P and Q of this subchapter at the Packing Group II or higher performance standards for large packagings intended for the transport of solids or inner packagings, except as follows:

(i) The test substance used in performing the tests shall be water, and the large salvage packagings must be filled to not less than 98 percent of their maximum capacity; and

(ii) Large salvage packagings must have been successfully subjected to a leakproofness test of 30 kPa (4.4 psig).

(2) Each large salvage packaging shall be provided when necessary with sufficient cushioning and absorption material to prevent excessive shifting of the contents and to eliminate the presence of any free liquid at the time the packaging is closed. All cushioning and absorbent material used in the large salvage packaging must be compatible with the hazardous material.

(3) Each large salvage packaging must be marked with the proper shipping name of the hazardous material inside the packaging and the name and address of the consignee. In addition, the packaging must be marked "SALVAGE". The lettering of the marking must be at least 12 mm (0.5 inches) high.

(4) Each large salvage packaging shall be labeled as prescribed for the respective material.

(5) The shipper shall prepare shipping papers in accordance with subpart C of part 172 of this subchapter.

(6) The overpack requirements of ยง 173.25 do not apply to large salvage packagings used in accordance with this paragraph.
