
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 173.4a Excepted quantities.
######## Packaging materials.

(e)Packagings used for the transport of excepted quantities must meet the following:

(1) Each inner receptacle must be constructed of plastic, or of glass, porcelain, stoneware, earthenware or metal. When used for liquid hazardous materials, plastic inner packagings must have a thickness of not less than 0.2 mm (0.008 inch).

(2) Each inner packaging with a removable closure must have its closure held securely in place with wire, tape or other positive means. Each inner receptacle having a neck with molded screw threads must have a leak proof, threaded type cap. The closure must not react chemically with the material.

(3) Each inner packaging must be securely packed in an intermediate packaging with cushioning material in such a way that, under normal conditions of transport, it cannot break, be punctured or leak its contents. The completed package as prepared for transport must completely contain the contents in case of breakage or leakage, regardless of package orientation. For liquid hazardous materials, the intermediate or outer packaging must contain sufficient absorbent material that:

(i) Will absorb the entire contents of the inner packaging.

(ii) Will not react dangerously with the material or reduce the integrity or function of the packaging materials.

(iii) When placed in the intermediate packaging, the absorbent material may be the cushioning material.

(4) The intermediate packaging must be securely packed in a strong, rigid outer packaging.

(5) Placement of the material in the package or packing different materials in the package must not result in a violation of ยง 173.21.

(6) Each package must be of such a size that there is adequate space to apply all necessary markings.

(7) The package is not opened or otherwise altered until it is no longer in commerce.

(8) Overpacks may be used and may also contain packages of hazardous material or other materials not subject to the HMR subject to the requirements of ยง 173.25.
