
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 173.4a Excepted quantities.
######## Marking.

(g)Excepted quantities of hazardous materials packaged, marked, and otherwise offered and transported in accordance with this section must be durably and legibly marked with the following marking:

(1) The "*" must be replaced by the primary hazard class, or when assigned, the division of each of the hazardous materials contained in the package. The "**" must be replaced by the name of the shipper or consignee if not shown elsewhere on the package.

(2) The marking must be durable and clearly visible and in the form of a square. The hatching must be of the same color, black or red on white or a suitable contrasting background. The minimum dimensions must not be less than 100 mm (3.9 inches) by 100 mm (3.9 inches) as measured from the outside of the hatching forming the border. Where dimensions are not specified, all features shall be in approximate proportion to those shown. For domestic transportation, a packaging marked prior to January 1, 2017, and in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue in service until the end of its useful life.

(3) For transportation by aircraft, the entire mark must appear on one side of the package.

(4) When packages of excepted quantities are contained in an overpack, and the package marking required by this section is not visible inside the overpack, the excepted quantities marking must also be placed on the overpack. Additionally, an overpack containing packages of excepted quantities is not required to be marked with the word "OVERPACK."
