
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 173.5a Oilfield service vehicles, mechanical displacement meter provers, and roadway striping vehicles exceptions.
######## Periodic test and inspection.

(3)(i) Each meter prover must be externally visually inspected once a year. The external visual inspection must include at a minimum: checking for leakage, defective fittings and welds, defective closures, significant dents and other defects or abnormalities which indicate a potential or actual weakness that could render the meter prover unsafe for transportation; and

(ii) Each meter prover must be pressure tested once every 5 years at not less than 75% of design pressure. The pressure must be held for a period of time sufficiently long to assure detection of leaks, but in no case less than 5 minutes.

(4) In addition to the training requirements in subpart H, the person who performs the visual inspection or pressure test and/or signs the inspection report must have the knowledge and ability to perform them as required by this section.

(5) A meter prover that fails the periodic test and inspection must be rejected and removed from hazardous materials service unless the meter prover is adequately repaired, and thereafter, a successful test is conducted in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(6) Prior to any repair work, the meter prover must be emptied of any hazardous material. A meter prover containing flammable lading must be purged.

(7) Each meter prover successfully completing the external visual inspection and the pressure test must be marked with the test date (month/year), and the type of test or inspection as follows:

(i) V for external visual inspection; and

(ii) P for pressure test.

The marking must be on the side of a tank or the largest piping component in letters 32 mm (1.25 inches) high on a contrasting background.

(8) The owner must retain a record of the most recent external visual inspection and pressure test until the next test or inspection of the same type is successfully completed. The test or inspection report must include the following:

(i) Serial number or other meter prover identifier;

(ii) Type of test or inspection performed;

(iii) Test date (month/year);

(iv) Location of defects found, if any, and method used to repair each defect;

(v) Name and address of person performing the test or inspection;

(vi) Disposition statement, such as "Meter Prover returned to service" or "Meter Prover removed from service".
