
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### § 173.5b Portable and mobile refrigeration systems.
######## General packaging requirements.

(a)Each non-specification pressure vessel must conform to the following:

(1) Each pressure vessel must be designed, manufactured, and maintained in accordance with applicable requirements of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(2) Except as authorized in this section, each pressure vessel and associated piping must be rated at a maximum allowable work pressure (MAWP) of 250 psig. The pressure in these components may not exceed MAWP.

(3) Any part of the piping or pressure vessel separated from another component of the refrigeration system by means of a valve, blank flange, or other device must be equipped with a pressure relief valve set at MAWP. All lines that must be disconnected for transportation purposes must be closed by means of a cap, plug or blank flange, and valves at the end of disconnected lines must be tightly closed.

(4) The aggregate total volumetric capacity of components within the refrigeration system authorized for highway transportation in accordance with this section may not exceed 2,500 gallons per vehicle.

(5) Each pressure vessel and associated piping containing anhydrous ammonia must conform to the following:

(i) Piping with a diameter of 2 inches or more must conform to ASTM A 53 Schedule 40 or ASTM A106 Schedule 40 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) Piping with a diameter of less than 2 inches must conform to ASTM A 53 Schedule 80 or ASTM A 106 Schedule 80 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(iii) The words "Inhalation Hazard" must be marked as required in special provision 13 in § 172.102 of this subchapter and, when practicable, within 24 inches of the placard.
