
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 173.5b Portable and mobile refrigeration systems.
######## Refrigeration systems placed into service prior to June 1, 1991.

(b)(1) For refrigeration systems placed into service prior to June 1, 1991, each pressure vessel and associated piping must be rated at a MAWP of not less than 250 psig. During transportation, pressure in the components that are part of the evaporating line may not exceed 150 psig.

(2) Each pressure vessel and associated piping that is part of the evaporating line must be marked "LOW SIDE" in a permanent and clearly visible manner. The evaporating line must have a pressure gauge with corresponding temperature markings mounted in a manner that is easily readable when standing on the ground. The gauge must be permanently marked or tagged "SATURATION GAUGE."

(3) Each pressure vessel and associated piping containing liquid anhydrous ammonia must be isolated using appropriate means from piping and components marked "LOW SIDE."

(4) Prior to transportation, each pressure vessel and associated piping must be relieved of enough gaseous lading to ensure that the MAWP is not exceeded at transport temperatures up to 54 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F).

(c) Prior to transportation over public highways, each pressure vessel and associated piping must be drained of refrigerant gas or liquid anhydrous ammonia to the extent practicable. Drained contents must be recovered in conformance with all applicable environmental regulations. Residual liquid anhydrous ammonia in each component may not exceed one percent of the component's total volumetric capacity or 10 gallons, whichever is less.
