
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 173.5b Portable and mobile refrigeration systems.
######## System inspection and testing.

(d)(1) Each refrigeration system authorized under this section must be visually inspected every year. The visual inspection must include items listed in ยง 180.407(d)(2) of this subchapter applicable to refrigeration systems. A certificate of the annual visual inspection must be dated and signed by the person performing the inspection and must contain that person's company affiliation. The certificate must remain at the equipment owner's office.

(2) Each refrigeration system authorized under this section must be proof pressure tested every two years beginning with the initial pressure test performed after manufacture. Additional pressure tests must be performed after any modification, repair or damage to a part of the system pressurized with refrigerant gas. System test pressures may not be less than one-and-one-half (1.50) times the rated MAWP of the system component or piping.

(3) Pressure relief valves must be successfully tested every two years at the MAWP for the components or piping to which they are attached. Pressure relief valves may be replaced and marked every 5 years with valves certified at the appropriate MAWP, in which case the valves need not be tested every two years. Valves that do not pass the test must be repaired or replaced.
