
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### § 173.6 Materials of trade exceptions.
######## Materials and amounts.

(a)A material of trade is limited to the following:

(1) A Class 3, 8, 9, Division 4.1, 5.1, 5.2, or 6.1 material contained in a packaging having a gross mass or capacity not over-

(i) 0.5 kg (1 pound) or 0.5 L (1 pint) for a Packing Group I material;

(ii) 30 kg (66 pounds) or 30 L (8 gallons) for a Packing Group II or Packing Group III material;

(iii) 1500 L (400 gallons) for a diluted mixture, not to exceed 2 percent concentration, of a Class 9 material.

(2) A Division 2.1 or 2.2 material in a cylinder with a gross weight not over 100 kg (220 pounds), in a Dewar flask meeting the requirements of § 173.320, or a permanently mounted tank manufactured to the ASME Code of not more than 70 gallon water capacity for a non-liquefied Division 2.2 material with no subsidiary hazard.

(3) A Division 4.3 material in Packing Group II or III contained in a packaging having a gross capacity not exceeding 30 mL (1 ounce).

(4) A Division 6.2 material, other than a Category A infectious substance, contained in human or animal samples (including, but not limited to, secreta, excreta, blood and its components, tissue and tissue fluids, and body parts) being transported for research, diagnosis, investigational activities, or disease treatment or prevention, or is a biological product or regulated medical waste. The material must be contained in a combination packaging. For liquids, the inner packaging must be leakproof, and the outer packaging must contain sufficient absorbent material to absorb the entire contents of the inner packaging. For sharps, the inner packaging (sharps container) must be constructed of a rigid material resistant to punctures and securely closed to prevent leaks or punctures, and the outer packaging must be securely closed to prevent leaks or punctures. For solids, liquids, and sharps, the outer packaging must be a strong, tight packaging securely closed and secured against shifting, including relative motion between packages, within the vehicle on which it is being transported.

(i) For other than a regulated medical waste, the amount of Division 6.2 material in a combination packaging must conform to the following limitations:

(A) One or more inner packagings, each of which may not contain more than 0.5 kg (1.1 lbs) or 0.5 L (17 ounces), and an outer packaging containing not more than 4 kg (8.8 lbs) or 4 L (1 gallon); or

(B) A single inner packaging containing not more than 16 kg (35.2 lbs) or 16 L (4.2 gallons) in a single outer packaging.

(ii) For a regulated medical waste, a combination packaging must consist of one or more inner packagings, each of which may not contain more than 4 kg (8.8 lbs) or 4 L (1 gallon), and an outer packaging containing not more than 16 kg (35.2 lbs) or 16 L (4.2 gallons).

(5) This section does not apply to a hazardous material that is self-reactive (see § 173.124), poisonous by inhalation (see § 173.133), or a hazardous waste.

(6) A limited quantity package prepared in accordance with § 173.63(b), § 173.150, § 173.151(b) and (c), § 173.152, § 173.153, § 173.154, § 173.155, § 173.161, § 173.165, § 173.167, § 173.306(i), or § 173.309(d) of this subchapter. Division 4.3 substances must be prepared in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Class 7 (radioactive) substances, instruments and articles are not authorized under the provisions of this section.

(7) For a material or article for which Column (5) of the Hazardous Materials Table in § 172.101 of this subchapter does not indicate a packing group. Authorized amounts are:

(i) For Classes or Divisions indicated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the amounts shown in paragraph (a)(1)(ii).

(ii) For Division 4.3, the amounts shown in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
