
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 173.6 Materials of trade exceptions.
######## Hazard communication.

(c)(1) A non-bulk packaging other than a cylinder (including a receptacle transported without an outer packaging) must be marked with a common name or proper shipping name to identify the material it contains, including the letters "RQ" if it contains a reportable quantity of a hazardous substance.

(2) A bulk packaging containing a diluted mixture of a Class 9 material must be marked on two opposing sides with the four-digit identification number of the material. The identification number must be displayed on placards, orange panels or, alternatively, a white square-on-point configuration having the same outside dimensions as a placard (at least 273 mm (10.8 inches) on a side), in the manner specified in ยง 172.332 (b) and (c) of this subchapter.

(3) A DOT specification cylinder (except DOT specification 39) must be marked and labeled as prescribed in this subchapter. Each DOT-39 cylinder must display the markings specified in 178.65(i).

(4) The operator of a motor vehicle that contains a material of trade must be informed of the presence of the hazardous material (including whether the package contains a reportable quantity) and must be informed of the requirements of this section.
