
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### ยง 173.24a Additional general requirements for non-bulk packagings and packages.
######## Mixed contents.

(c)(1) An outer non-bulk packaging may contain more than one hazardous material only when-

(i) The inner and outer packagings used for each hazardous material conform to the relevant packaging sections of this part applicable to that hazardous material;

(ii) The package as prepared for shipment meets the performance tests prescribed in part 178 of this subchapter for the packing group indicating the highest order of hazard for the hazardous materials contained in the package;

(iii) Corrosive materials in bottles are further packed in securely closed inner receptacles before packing in outer packagings; and

(iv) For transportation by aircraft, the total net quantity does not exceed the lowest permitted maximum net quantity per package as shown in Column (9a) or (9b), as appropriate, of the ยง 172.101 Table of this subchapter. The permitted maximum net quantity must be calculated in kilograms if a package contains both a liquid and a solid. These requirements do not apply to limited quantity hazardous materials packaged in accordance with ยง 173.27(f)(2).

(2) A packaging containing inner packagings of Division 6.2 materials may not contain other hazardous materials except-

(i) Refrigerants, such as dry ice or liquid nitrogen, as authorized under the HMR;

(ii) Anticoagulants used to stabilize blood or plasma; or

(iii) Small quantities of Class 3, Class 8, Class 9, or other materials in Packing Groups II or III used to stabilize or prevent degradation of the sample, provided the quantity of such materials does not exceed 30 mL (1 ounce) or 30 g (1 ounce) in each inner packaging. The maximum quantity in an outer package, including a hazardous material used to preserve or stabilize a sample, may not exceed 4 L (1 gallon) or 4 kg (8.8 pounds). Such preservatives are not subject to the requirements of this subchapter.

(d) Liquids must not completely fill a receptacle at a temperature of 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) or less.
