
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### ยง 173.27 General requirements for transportation by aircraft.
######## except for

(G) All Class 9 (miscellaneous) materialsUN1941, UN1990, UN2071, UN3077, UN3082, UN3316, UN3334, UN3335, and ID8000.

(ii) Packages must be marked with the limited quantity "Y" mark as prescribed in ยง 172.315 of this subchapter when conforming to Table 3 of this paragraph.

(iii) Strong outer packagings are required and a completed package may not exceed 30 kg (66 lbs) gross weight.

(iv) A secondary means of closure required for all liquids contained in inner packagings. If this requirement cannot be satisfied, the use of an intermediate and leakproof form of containment, such as a liner, is required.

(v) Packages must be capable of passing a 1.2 m drop test on to a rigid, non-resilient, flat and horizontal surface, in the position most likely to cause damage. The criteria for passing the test is that the outer packaging must not exhibit any damage affecting safety in transport and there must be no leakage from the inner packagings.

(vi) Each package must be capable of withstanding, without breakage or leakage of any inner packaging, a force applied to the top surface for a duration of 24 hours equivalent to the total weight of identical packages if stacked to a height of 3 m (including the test sample).

(vii) Except for UN3082, inner packagings of combination packagings containing liquids must be capable of passing the appropriate pressure differential test prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) The tables are as follows:
