
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### ยง 173.31 Use of tank cars.
######## Tank car loading and unloading.

(g)When placed for loading or unloading and before unsecuring any closure, a tank car must be protected against shifting or coupling as follows:

(1) Each hazmat employee who is responsible for loading or unloading a tank car must secure access to the track to prevent entry by other rail equipment, including motorized service vehicles. Derails, lined and locked switches, portable bumper blocks, or other equipment that provides an equivalent level of security may be used to satisfy this requirement.

(2) Caution signs must be displayed on the track or on the tank cars to warn persons approaching the cars from the open end of the track and must be left up until after all closures are secured and the cars are in proper condition for transportation. The caution signs must be of metal or other durable material, rectangular, at 30.48 cm (12 inches) high by 38.10 cm (15 inches) wide, and bear the word "STOP." The word "STOP" must appear in letters at least 10.16 cm (4 inches) high. The letters must be white on a blue background. Additional words, such as "Tank Car Connected" or "Crew at Work," may also appear in white letters under the word "STOP."

(3) At least one wheel on the tank car must be blocked against motion in both directions, and the hand brakes must be set. If multiple tank cars are coupled together, sufficient hand brakes must be set and wheels blocked to prevent motion in both directions.
