
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### § 173.32 Requirements for the use of portable tanks.
######## Substitute packagings.

(b)A particular Specification portable tank may be substituted for another portable tank as follows:

(1) An IM or UN portable tank may be used whenever an IM or UN portable tank having less stringent requirements is authorized provided the portable tank meets or exceeds the requirements for pressure-relief devices, bottom outlets and any other special provisions specified in § 172.102(c)(7)(vi) of this subchapter.

(2) Where a Specification IM101 or IM102 portable tank is prescribed, a UN portable tank or Specification 51 portable tank otherwise conforming to the special commodity requirements of § 172.102(c)(7) of this subchapter for the material to be transported may be used.

(3) A DOT Specification 51 portable tank may be used whenever a DOT Specification 56, 57, or 60 portable tank is authorized. A DOT Specification 60 portable tank may be used whenever a DOT Specification 56 or 57 portable tank is authorized. A higher integrity tank used instead of a specified portable tank must meet the same design profile; for example, a DOT Specification 51 portable tank must be lined if used instead of a lined DOT Specification 60 portable tank.

(4) A portable tank authorized by the Transport Canada TDG Regulations (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) may be used provided it conforms to the applicable requirements in § 171.12 of this subchapter.
