
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### § 173.32 Requirements for the use of portable tanks.
######## Grandfather provisions for portable tanks,Continued use of Specification 56 and 57 portable tanks.

(c)-(1)Continued use of an existing portable tank constructed to DOT Specification 56 or 57 is authorized only for a portable tank constructed before October 1, 1996. A stainless steel portable tank internally lined with polyethylene that was constructed on or before October 1, 1996, and that meets all requirements of DOT Specification 57 except for being equipped with a polypropylene discharge ball valve and polypropylene secondary discharge opening closure, may be marked as a Specification 57 portable tank and used in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(2) A DOT Specification 51, IM 101, or IM 102 portable tank may not be manufactured after January 1, 2003; however, such tanks may continue to be used for the transportation of a hazardous material provided they meet the requirements of this subchapter, including the specification requirements and the requirements of this subchapter for the transportation of the particular hazardous material according to the T codes in effect on September 30, 2001 or the new T codes in § 172.102(c)(7)(i), and provided the portable tanks conform to the periodic inspection and tests specified for the particular portable tank in subpart G of part 180 of this subchapter. After January 1, 2003, all newly manufactured portable tanks must conform to the requirements for the design, construction and approval of UN portable tanks as specified in §§ 178.273, 178.274, 178.275, 178.276, 178.277 and part 180, subpart G, of this subchapter.

(3) A DOT Specification portable tank manufactured prior to January 1, 1992 that is equipped with a non-reclosing pressure relief device may continue in service for the hazardous materials for which it is authorized. Except for a DOT Specification 56 or 57 portable tank, a DOT Specification portable tank manufactured after January 1, 1992, used for materials meeting the definition for Division 6.1 liquids, Packing Group I or II, Class 2 gases, or Class 3 or 4 liquids, must be equipped with a reclosing pressure relief valve having adequately sized venting capacity unless otherwise specified in this subchapter (see §§ 178.275(f)(1) and 178.277 of this subchapter).

(4) Any portable tank container constructed prior to May 15, 1950, complying with the requirements of either the ASME Code for Unfired Pressure Vessels, 1946 Edition, or the API ASME Code for Unfired Pressure Vessels, 1943 Edition, may be used for the transportation of liquefied compressed gas, provided it fulfills all the requirements of the part and specifications for the particular gas or gases to be transported. Such portable tanks must be marked "ICC Specification 51X" on the plate required by the specification, except as modified by any or all of the following:

(i) Portable tanks designed and constructed in accordance with Pars. U-68, U-69, or U-201 of the ASME Code, 1943 and 1946 editions, may be used. Portable tanks designed and constructed in accordance with Par. U-68 or Par. U-69 may be re-rated at a working pressure 25 percent in excess of the design pressure for which the portable tank was originally constructed. If the portable tank is re-rated, the re-rated pressure must be marked on the plate as follows: "Re-rated working pressure-psig".

(ii) Loading and unloading accessories, valves, piping, fittings, safety and gauging devices, do not have to comply with the requirements for the particular location on the portable tank.

(5) Any ICC Specification 50 portable tank fulfilling the requirements of that specification may be continued in service for transportation of a liquefied petroleum gas if it is retested every five years in accordance with the requirements in § 180.605 of this subchapter. Use of existing portable tanks is authorized. New construction is not authorized.
