
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### ยง 173.32 Requirements for the use of portable tanks.
######## Loading requirements.

(f)(1) A hazardous material may not be loaded into a portable tank if the hazardous material would:

(i) Damage the portable tank;

(ii) React with the portable tank; or

(iii) Otherwise compromise its product retention capability.

(2) A hazardous material may not be loaded in a DOT Specification 51, DOT Specification 60, an IM or UN portable tank unless the portable tank has a pressure relief device that provides total relieving capacity meeting the requirements of this subchapter.

(3) Except during a pressure test, a portable tank may not be subjected to a pressure greater than its marked maximum allowable working pressure or, when appropriate, its marked design pressure.

(4) A portable tank may not be loaded to a gross mass greater than the maximum allowable gross mass specified on its identification plate.

(5) Except for a non-flowable solid or a liquid with a viscosity of 2,680 centistokes (millimeters squared per second) or greater at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F), an IM or UN portable tank, or compartment thereof, having a volume greater than 7,500 L (1,980 gallons) may not be loaded to a filling density of more than 20% and less than 80% by volume. This filling restriction does not apply if a portable tank is divided by partitions or surge plates into compartments of not more than 7,500 L (1,980 gallons) capacity; this portable tank must not be offered for transportation in an ullage condition liable to produce an unacceptable hydraulic force due to surge.

(6) The outage for a portable tank may not be less than 2% at a temperature of 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) unless otherwise specified in this subchapter. For UN portable tanks, the applicable maximum filling limits apply as specified according to the assigned TP codes in Column (7) of the ยง 172.101 Table of this subchapter except when transported domestically.

(7) Each tell-tale indicator or pressure gauge located in the space between a frangible disc and a safety relief valve mounted in series must be checked after the tank is filled and prior to transportation to ensure that the frangible disc is leak free. Any leakage through the frangible disc must be corrected prior to offering the tank for transportation.

(8) During filling, the temperature of the hazardous materials shall not exceed the limits of the design temperature range of the portable tank.

(9) The maximum mass of liquefied compressed gas per liter (gallon) of shell capacity (kg/L or lbs./gal.) may not exceed the density of the liquefied compressed gas at 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F). The portable tank must not be liquid full at 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F).
