
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### ยง 173.32 Requirements for the use of portable tanks.
######## Additional requirements for portable tanks other than IM specification and UN portable tanks.

(i)(1) The bursting strength of any piping and fittings must be at least four times the design pressure of the tank, and at least four times the pressure to which, in any instance, it may be subjected in service by the action of a pump or other device (not including safety relief valves) that may subject piping to pressures greater than the design pressure of the tank.

(2) Pipe joints must be threaded, welded or flanged. If threaded pipe is used, the pipe and pipe fittings must not be lighter than Schedule 80 weight. Where copper tubing is permitted, joints must be brazed or be of equally strong metal union type. The melting point of brazing material may not be lower than 1,000 &#xB0;F (537.8 &#xB0;C). The method of joining tubing must not decrease the strength of the tubing such as by the cutting of threads.

(3) Non-malleable metals may not be used in the construction of valves or fittings.

(4) Suitable provision must be made in every case to allow for expansion, contraction, jarring and vibration of all pipe. Slip joints may not be used for this purpose.

(5) Piping and fittings must be grouped in the smallest practicable space and must be protected from damage as required by the specification.

(6) All piping, valves and fittings on every portable tank must be leakage tested with gas or air after installation and proved tight at not less than the design pressure of the portable tank on which they are used. In the event of replacement, all such piping, valves, or fittings must be tested in accordance with the requirements of this section before the portable tank is returned to transportation service. The requirements of this section apply to all hoses used on portable tanks, except that hoses may be tested either before or after installation on the portable tank.

(7) All materials used in the construction of portable tanks and their appurtenances may not be subject to destructive attack by the contents of the portable tank.

(8) No aluminum, copper, silver, zinc nor their alloys may be used. Brazed joints may not be used. All parts of a portable tank and its appurtenances used for anhydrous ammonia must be steel.

(9) Each outlet of a portable tank used for the transportation of non-refrigerated liquefied compressed gases, except carbon dioxide, must be provided with a suitable automatic excess-flow valve (see definition in ยง 178.337-1(g) of this subchapter). The valve must be located inside the portable tank or at a point outside the portable tank where the line enters or leaves the portable tank. The valve seat must be located inside the portable tank or may be located within a welded flange or its companion flange, or within a nozzle or within a coupling. The installation must be made in such a manner as to reasonably assure that any undue strain which causes failure requiring functioning of the valve shall cause failure in such a manner that it will not impair the operation of the valve.

(i) A safety device connection or liquid level gauging device that is constructed so that the outward flow of the tank contents will not exceed that passed by an opening of 0.1397 cm (0.0550 inches) is not required to be equipped with excess-flow valves.

(ii) An excess-flow valve must close automatically if the flow reaches the rated flow of gas or liquid specified by the original valve manufacturer when piping mounted directly on the valve is sheared off before the first valve, pump, or fitting downstream from the excess flow valve.

(iii) An excess-flow valve may be designed with a by-pass, not to exceed a 0.1016 cm (0.040 inches) diameter opening to allow equalization of pressure.

(iv) Filling and discharge lines must be provided with manually operated shut-off valves located as close to the tank as practical. Unless this valve is manually operable at the valve, the line must also have a manual shut-off valve. The use of "Stop-Check" valves to satisfy with one valve the requirements of this section is forbidden. For portable tanks used for refrigerated liquefied gases, a "stop check" valve may be used on the vapor side of the pressure buildup circuit.

(10) Each portable tank used for carbon dioxide or nitrous oxide must be lagged with a suitable insulation material of such thickness that the overall thermal conductance is not more than 0.08 Btu per square foot per degree Fahrenheit differential in temperature per hour. The conductance must be determined at 60 &#xB0;Fahrenheit. Insulation material used on portable tanks for nitrous oxide must be noncombustible.

(11) Refrigerating or heating coils must be installed in portable tanks used for carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide. Such coils must be tested externally to at least the same pressure as the test pressure of the portable tank. The coils must also be tested internally to at least twice the working pressure of the heating or refrigerating system to be used, but in no case less than the test pressure of the portable tank. Such coils must be securely anchored. In the event of leakage, the refrigerant or heating medium to be circulated through the coil or coils must have no adverse chemical reaction with the portable tank or its contents.

(12) Excess flow valves are not required for portable tanks used for the transport of refrigerated liquefied gases.
