
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### § 173.33 Hazardous materials in cargo tank motor vehicles.
######## Maximum Lading Pressure.

(c)(1) Prior to loading and offering a cargo tank motor vehicle for transportation with material that requires the use of a specification cargo tank, the person must confirm that the cargo tank motor vehicle conforms to the specification required for the lading and that the MAWP of the cargo tank is greater than or equal to the largest pressure obtained under the following conditions:

(i) For compressed gases and certain refrigerated liquids that are not cryogenic liquids, the pressure prescribed in § 173.315 of this subchapter.

(ii) For cryogenic liquids, the pressure prescribed in § 173.318 of this subchapter.

(iii) For liquid hazardous materials loaded in DOT specification cargo tanks equipped with a 1 psig normal vent, the sum of the tank static head plus 1 psig. In addition, for hazardous materials loaded in these cargo tanks, the vapor pressure of the lading at 115 &#xB0;F must be not greater than 1 psig, except for gasoline transported in accordance with Special Provision B33 in § 172.102(c)(3) of this subchapter.

(iv) For liquid hazardous materials not covered in paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, the sum of the vapor pressure of the lading at 115 &#xB0;F, plus the tank static head exerted by the lading, plus any pressure exerted by the gas padding, including air in the ullage space or dome.

(v) The pressure prescribed in subpart B, D, E, F, G, or H of this part, as applicable.

(vi) The maximum pressure in the tank during loading or unloading.

(2) Any Specification MC 300, MC 301, MC 302, MC 303, MC 305, MC 306 or MC 312, cargo tank motor vehicle with no marked design pressure or marked with a design pressure of 3 psig or less may be used for an authorized lading where the pressure derived from § 173.33(c)(1) is less than or equal to 3 psig. After December 31, 1990, a cargo tank may not be loaded and offered for transportation unless marked or remarked with an MAWP or design pressure in accordance with 49 CFR 180.405(k).

(3) Any Specification MC 310 or MC 311 cargo tank motor vehicle may be used for an authorized lading where the pressure derived from § 173.33(c)(1) is less than or equal to the MAWP or MWP, respectively, as marked on the specification plate.

(4) Any cargo tank marked or certified before August 31, 1995, marked with a design pressure rather than an MAWP may be used for an authorized lading where the largest pressure derived from § 173.33(c)(1) is less than or equal to the design pressure marked on the cargo tank.

(5) Any material that meets the definition of a Division 6.1, Packing Group I or II (poisonous liquid) material must be loaded in a cargo tank motor vehicle having a MAWP of 25 psig or greater.
