
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### ยง 173.36 Hazardous materials in Large Packagings.
######## Initial use and reuse of Large Packagings.

(c)A Large Packaging may be reused. If an inner packaging is constructed of paper or flexible plastic, the inner packaging must be replaced before each reuse. Before a Large Packaging is filled and offered for transportation, the Large Packaging must be given an external visual inspection, by the person filling the Large Packaging, to ensure:

(1) The Large Packaging is free from corrosion, contamination, cracks, cuts, or other damage which would render it unable to pass the prescribed design type test to which it is certified and marked; and

(2) The Large Packaging is marked in accordance with requirements in ยง 178.910 of this subchapter. Additional marking allowed for each design type may be present. Required markings that are missing, damaged or difficult to read must be restored or returned to original condition.

(d) During transportation-

(1) No hazardous material may remain on the outside of the Large Packaging; and

(2) Each Large Packaging must be securely fastened to or contained within the transport unit.

(e) Each Large Packaging used for transportation of solids which may become liquid at temperatures likely to be encountered during transportation may not be transported in paper or fiber inner packagings. The inner packagings must be capable of containing the substance in the liquid state.

(f) Liquid hazardous materials may only be offered for transportation in inner packagings appropriately resistant to an increase of internal pressure likely to develop during transportation.

(g) A Large Packaging used to transport hazardous materials may not exceed 3 cubic meters (106 cubic feet) capacity.
