
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart B - Preparation of Hazardous Materials for Transportation
####### ยง 173.40 General packaging requirements for toxic materials packaged in cylinders.
######## Additional handling protection.

(d)Each cylinder or cylinder overpack combination offered for transportation containing a Division 2.3 or 6.1 Hazard Zone A or B material must conform to the valve damage protection performance requirements of this section. In addition to the requirements of this section, overpacks must conform to the overpack provisions of ยง 173.25.

(1) DOT specification cylinders must conform to the following:

(i) Each cylinder with a wall thickness at any point of less than 2.03 mm (0.08 inch) and each cylinder that does not have fitted valve protection must be overpacked in a box. The box must conform to overpack provisions in ยง 173.25. Box and valve protection must be of sufficient strength to protect all parts of the cylinder and valve, if any, from deformation and breakage resulting from a drop of 2.0 m (7 ft) or more onto a non-yielding surface, such as concrete or steel, impacting at an orientation most likely to cause damage. "Deformation"means a cylinder or valve that is bent, distorted, mangled, misshapen, twisted, warped, or in a similar condition.

(ii) Each cylinder with a valve must be equipped with a protective metal or plastic cap, other valve protection device, or an overpack which is sufficient to protect the valve from breakage or leakage resulting from a drop of 2.0 m (7 ft) onto a non-yielding surface, such as concrete or steel. Impact must be at an orientation most likely to cause damage.

(2) Each UN cylinder containing a Hazard Zone A or Hazard Zone B material must have a minimum test pressure in accordance with P200 of the UN Recommendations (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). For Hazard Zone A gases, the cylinder must have a minimum wall thickness of 3.5 mm if made of aluminum alloy or 2 mm if made of steel or, alternatively, cylinders may be packed in a rigid outer packaging that meets the Packing Group I performance level when tested as prepared for transport, and that is designed and constructed to protect the cylinder and valve from puncture or damage that may result in release of the gas.
