
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Definitions, Classification and Packaging for Class 1
####### § 173.52 Classification codes and compatibility groups of explosives.

(a) The classification code for an explosive, which is assigned by the Associate Administrator in accordance with this subpart, consists of the division number followed by the compatibility group letter. Compatibility group letters are used to specify the controls for the transportation, and storage related thereto, of explosives and to prevent an increase in hazard that might result if certain types of explosives were stored or transported together. Transportation compatibility requirements for carriers are prescribed in §§ 174.81, 175.78. 176.83 and 177.848 of this subchapter for transportation by rail, air, vessel, and public highway, respectively, and storage incidental thereto.

(b) Compatibility groups and classification codes for the various types of explosives are set forth in the following tables. Table 1 sets forth compatibility groups and classification codes for substances and articles described in the first column of table 1. Table 2 shows the number of classification codes that are possible within each explosive division. Altogether, there are 35 possible classification codes for explosives.
