
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Definitions, Classification and Packaging for Class 1
####### § 173.58 Assignment of class and division for new explosives.
######## Division 1.5 explosive.

(b)Except for ANFO, a substance that has been examined in accordance with the provisions § 173.57(a) of this subchapter, must be subjected to the following additional tests: Cap Sensitivity Test, Princess Incendiary Spark Test, DDT Test, and External Fire Test, each as described in the Explosive Test Manual. A material may not be classed as a Division 1.5 explosive if any of the following occurs:

(1) Detonation occurs in the Cap Sensitivity Test (Test Method 5(a));

(2) Detonation occurs in the DDT Test (Test Method 5(b)(ii));

(3) An explosion, evidenced by a loud noise and projection of fragments, occurs in the External Fire Test (Test Method 5(c), or

(4) Ignition or explosion occurs in the Princess Incendiary Spark Test (Test Method 5(d)).

(c) Division 1.6 explosive. (1) In order to be classed as a 1.6 explosive, an article must pass all of the following tests, as prescribed in the Explosive Test Manual:

(i) The 1.6 Article External Fire Test;

(ii) The 1.6 Article Slow Cook-off Test;

(iii) The 1.6 Article Propagation Test; and

(iv) The 1.6 Article Bullet Impact Test.

(2) A substance intended for use as the explosive load in an article of Division 1.6 must be an extremely insensitive detonating substance (EIDS). In order to determine if a substance is an EIDS, it must be subjected to the tests in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(x) of this section, which are described in the Explosive Test Manual. The substance must be tested in the form (i.e., composition, granulation, density, etc.) in which it is to be used in the article. A substance is not an EIDS if it fails any of the following tests:

(i) The Drop Weight Impact Sensitivity Test;

(ii) The Friction Sensitivity Test;

(iii) The Thermal Sensitivity Test at 75 &#xB0;C (167 &#xB0;F);

(iv) The Small Scale Burning Test;

(v) The EIDS Cap Test;

(vi) The EIDS Gap Test;

(vii) The Susan Test;

(viii) The EIDS Bullet Impact Test;

(ix) The EIDS External Fire Test; and

(x) The EIDS Slow Cook-off Test.

(d) The Associate Administrator may waive or modify certain test(s) identified in §§ 173.57 and 173.58 of this subchapter, or require additional testing, if appropriate. In addition, the Associate Administrator may limit the quantity of explosive in a device.

(e) Each explosive is assigned a compatibility group letter by the Associate Administrator based on the criteria prescribed in § 173.52(b) of this subchapter.
