
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.38 Delegations to the Assistant Secretary for Administration.
####### Acquisition.

(a)(1) Exercise procurement authority with respect to requirements of the Office of the Secretary or an Operating Administration, if requested under an agreement with that Operating Administration.

(2) Make the required determinations with respect to mistakes in bids relative to sales of personal property conducted by the Office of the Secretary without power of redelegation.

(3) Except as delegated to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator by ยง 1.95, carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 3 of Executive Order 11912 ("Delegation of Authorities Relating to Energy Policy and Conservation"), as amended.

(4) Carry out the functions delegated to the Secretary from time to time by the Administrator of General Services to lease real property for Department use.

(5) Carry out the duties and responsibilities of agency head for departmental procurement within the meaning of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. This authority as agency head for departmental procurement excludes duties, responsibilities, and powers expressly reserved for the Secretary of Transportation.

(6) Serve as Deputy Chief Acquisition Officer.

(7) Provide departmental guidance on grants, cooperative agreements, and other financial assistance transactions, but not including loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, or insurance.

(8) Issue departmental procurement regulations, subject to coordination with the General Counsel and interested Operating Administrations. In commenting upon proposed provisions for the procurement regulations, the Operating Administrations will indicate the nature and purpose of any additional implementing or supplementing policy guidance which they propose to issue at the Operating Administration level.
