
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Definitions, Classification and Packaging for Class 1
####### ยง 173.60 General packaging requirements for explosives.

(a) Unless otherwise provided in this subpart and in ยง 173.7(a), packaging used for Class 1 (explosives) materials must meet Packing Group II requirements. Each packaging used for an explosive must be capable of meeting the test requirements of subpart M of part 178 of this subchapter, at the specified level of performance, and the applicable general packaging requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The general requirements for packaging of explosives are as follows:

(1) Nails, staples, and other closure devices, made of metal, having no protective covering may not penetrate to the inside of the outer packaging unless the inner packaging adequately protects the explosive against contact with the metal.

(2) The closure device of containers for liquid explosives must provide double protection against leakage, such as a screw cap secured in place with tape.

(3) Inner packagings, fittings, and cushioning materials, and the placing of explosive substances or articles in packages, must be such that the explosive substance is prevented from becoming loose in the outer packaging during transportation. Metallic components of articles must be prevented from making contact with metal packagings. Articles containing explosive substances not enclosed in an outer casing must be separated from each other in order to prevent friction and impact. Padding, trays, partitioning in the inner or outer packaging, molded plastics or receptacles may be used for this purpose.

(4) When the packaging includes water that could freeze during transportation, a sufficient amount of anti-freeze, such as denatured ethyl alcohol, must be added to the water to prevent freezing. If the anti-freeze creates a fire hazard, it may not be used. When a percentage of water in the substance is specified, the combined weight of water and anti-freeze may be substituted.

(5) If an article is fitted with its own means of ignition or initiation, it must be effectively protected from accidental actuation during normal conditions of transportation.

(6) The entry of explosive substances into the recesses of double-seamed metal packagings must be prevented.

(7) The closure device of a metal drum must include a suitable gasket; if the closure device includes metal-to-metal screw-threads, the ingress of explosive substances into the threading must be prevented.

(8) Whenever loose explosive substances or the explosive substance of an uncased or partly cased article may come into contact with the inner surface of metal packagings (1A2, 1B2, 4A, 4B and metal receptacles), the metal packaging should be provided with an inner liner or coating.
