
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Definitions, Classification and Packaging for Class 1
####### ยง 173.60 General packaging requirements for explosives.
######## see

(9) Packagings must be made of materials compatible with, and impermeable to, the explosives contained in the package, so that neither interaction between the explosives and the packaging materials, nor leakage, causes the explosive to become unsafe in transportation, or the hazard division or compatibility group to change (ยง 173.24(e)(2)).

(10) An explosive article containing an electrical means of initiation that is sensitive to external electromagnetic radiation, must have its means of initiation effectively protected from electromagnetic radiation sources (for example, radar or radio transmitters) through either design of the packaging or of the article, or both.

(11) Plastic packagings may not be able to generate or accumulate sufficient static electricity to cause the packaged explosive substances or articles to initiate, ignite or inadvertently function. Metal packagings must be compatible with the explosive substance they contain.

(12) Explosive substances may not be packed in inner or outer packagings where the differences in internal and external pressures, due to thermal or other effects, could cause an explosion or rupture of the package.

(13) Packagings for water soluble substances must be water resistant. Packagings for desensitized or phlegmatized substances must be closed to prevent changes in concentration during transport. When containing less alcohol, water, or phlegmatizer than specified in its proper shipping description, the substance is a "forbidden" material.

(14) Large and robust explosives articles, normally intended for military use, without their means of initiation or with their means of initiation containing at least two effective protective features, may be carried unpackaged provided that a negative result was obtained in Test Series 4 of the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria on an unpackaged article. When such articles have propelling charges or are self-propelled, their ignition systems must be protected against conditions encountered during normal transportation. Such unpackaged articles may be fixed to cradles or contained in crates or other suitable handling, storage or launching devices in such a way that they will not become loose during normal conditions of transport and are in accordance with DOD-approved procedures. When such large explosive articles, as part of their operational safety and suitability tests, are subjected to testing that meets the intentions of Test Series 4 of the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria with successful test results, they may be offered for transportation in accordance with the requirements prescribed in (b)(14) above subject to approval by the Associate Administrator.
