
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Definitions, Classification and Packaging for Class 1
####### ยง 173.61 Mixed packaging requirements.

(a) An explosive may not be packed in the same outside packaging with any other material that could, under normal conditions of transportation, adversely affect the explosive or its packaging unless packaged by DOD or DOE in accordance with ยง 173.7(a).

(b) Hardware necessary for assembly of explosive articles at the point-of-use may be packed in the same outside packaging with the explosive articles. The hardware must be securely packed in a separate inside packaging. Sufficient cushioning materials must be used to ensure that all inside packagings are securely packed in the outside packaging.

(c) The following explosives may not be packed together with other Class 1 explosives: UN 0029, UN 0030, UN 0073, UN 0106, UN 0107, UN 0255, UN 0257, UN 0267, UN 0350, UN 0360, UN 0361, UN 0364, UN 0365, UN 0366, UN 0367, UN 0408, UN 0409, UN 0410, UN 0455, UN 0456, and UN 0500. These explosives may be mix-packed with each other in accordance with the compatibility requirements prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section.

(d) Division 1.1 and 1.2 explosives may not be packed with the following explosives: UN 0333, UN 0334, UN 0335, UN 0336, and UN 0337.

(e) Except as prescribed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, different explosives may be packed in one outside packaging in accordance with the following compatibility requirements:

(1) Explosives of the same compatibility group and same division number may be packed together.

(2) Explosives of the same compatibility group or authorized combination of compatibility group but different division number may be packed together, provided that the whole package is treated as though its entire contents were comprised of the lower division number. For example, a mixed package of Division 1.2 explosives and Division 1.4 explosives, compatibility group D, must be treated as 1.2D explosives. However, when 1.5D explosives are packed together with 1.2D explosives, the whole package must be treated as 1.1D explosives.

(3) Explosives of compatibility group S may be packaged together with explosives of any other compatibility group except A or L, and the combined package may be treated as belonging to any of the packaged compatibility groups except S.

(4) Explosives of compatibility group L shall only be packed with an identical explosive.

(5) Explosives articles of compatibility groups C, D, or E may be packed together and the entire package shall be treated as belonging to compatibility group E.

(6) Explosives articles of compatibility groups C, D, E, or N may be packed together and the entire package shall be treated as belonging to compatibility group D.

(7) Explosives substances of compatibility groups C and D may be packaged together and the entire package shall be treated as belonging to compatibility group D.

(8) Explosive articles of compatibility group G, except for fireworks and articles requiring special packaging, may be packaged together with explosive articles of compatibility groups C, D or E and the combined package shall be treated as belonging to compatibility group E.
