
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Definitions, Classification and Packaging for Class 1
####### ยง 173.63 Packaging exceptions.
######## Limited quantities of Cartridges, small arms, Cartridges, power device, Cartridges for tools, blank, and Cases, cartridge, empty with primer.

(b)(1)(i) Cartridges, small arms, Cartridges, power device (used to project fastening devices), Cartridges for tools, blank, and Cases, cartridge, empty with primer that have been classed as Division 1.4S explosive may be offered for transportation and transported as limited quantities when packaged in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Packages containing such articles may be marked with either the marking prescribed in ยง 172.315(a) or (b) of this subchapter and offered for transportation and transported by any mode. For transportation by aircraft, the package must conform to the applicable requirements of ยง 173.27 of this part. In addition, packages containing such articles offered for transportation by aircraft must be marked with the proper shipping name as prescribed in the ยง 172.101 Hazardous Materials Table of this subchapter. Packages containing such articles are not subject to the shipping paper requirements of subpart C of part 172 of this subchapter unless the material meets the definition of a hazardous substance, hazardous waste, marine pollutant, or is offered for transportation and transported by aircraft or vessel. Additionally, packages containing such articles are excepted from the requirements of subparts E (Labeling) and F (Placarding) of part 172 of this subchapter.
