
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart D - Definitions Classification, Packing Group Assignments and Exceptions for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### § 173.115 Class 2, Divisions 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3 - Definitions.
######## see

(k) For Division 2.2 gases, the oxidizing ability shall be determined by tests or by calculation in accordance with ISO 10156:2017(E) (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter).

(l) The following applies to aerosols (see § 171.8 of this subchapter):

(1) An aerosol must be assigned to Division 2.1 if the contents include 85% by mass or more flammable components and the chemical heat of combustion is 30 kJ/g or more;

(2) An aerosol must be assigned to Division 2.2 if the contents contain 1% by mass or less flammable components and the heat of combustion is less than 20 kJ/g.

(3) Aerosols not meeting the provisions of paragraphs (l)(1) or (1)(2) of this section must be classed in accordance with the appropriate tests of the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). An aerosol which was tested in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter in effect on December 31, 2005, is not required to be retested.

(4) Division 2.3 gases may not be transported in an aerosol container.

(5) When the contents are classified as Division 6.1, PG III or Class 8, PG II or III, the aerosol must be assigned a subsidiary hazard of Division 6.1 or Class 8, as appropriate.

(6) Substances of Division 6.1, PG I or II, and substances of Class 8, PG I are forbidden from transportation in an aerosol container.

(7) Flammable components are Class 3 flammable liquids, Division 4.1 flammable solids, or Division 2.1 flammable gases. The chemical heat of combustion must be determined in accordance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).
