
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart D - Definitions Classification, Packing Group Assignments and Exceptions for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.120 Class 3 - Definitions.
######## combustible liquid

(b) Combustible liquid. (1) For the purpose of this subchapter, ameans any liquid that does not meet the definition of any other hazard class specified in this subchapter and has a flash point above 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F) and below 93 &#xB0;C (200 &#xB0;F).

(2) A flammable liquid with a flash point at or above 38 &#xB0;C (100 &#xB0;F) that does not meet the definition of any other hazard class may be reclassed as a combustible liquid. This provision does not apply to transportation by vessel or aircraft, except where other means of transportation is impracticable. An elevated temperature material that meets the definition of a Class 3 material because it is intentionally heated and offered for transportation or transported at or above its flash point may not be reclassed as a combustible liquid.

(3) A combustible liquid that does not sustain combustion is not subject to the requirements of this subchapter as a combustible liquid. Either the test method specified in ASTM D 4206 or the procedure in appendix H of this part may be used to determine if a material sustains combustion when heated under test conditions and exposed to an external source of flame.
