
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart D - Definitions Classification, Packing Group Assignments and Exceptions for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.120 Class 3 - Definitions.
######## see

(H) Determination of Flash Point-Abel Closed-Cup Method (ISO 13736) (IBR;ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(2) For a liquid that is a mixture of compounds that have different volatility and flash points, its flash point shall be determined as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, on the material in the form in which it is to be shipped. If it is determined by this test that the flash point is higher than -7 &#xB0;C (20 &#xB0;F) a second test shall be made as follows: a portion of the mixture shall be placed in an open beaker (or similar container) of such dimensions that the height of the liquid can be adjusted so that the ratio of the volume of the liquid to the exposed surface area is 6 to one. The liquid shall be allowed to evaporate under ambient pressure and temperature (20 to 25 &#xB0;C (68 to 77 &#xB0;F)) for a period of 4 hours or until 10 percent by volume has evaporated, whichever comes first. A flash point is then run on a portion of the liquid remaining in the evaporation container and the lower of the two flash points shall be the flash point of the material.

(3) For flash point determinations by Setaflash closed tester, the glass syringe specified need not be used as the method of measurement of the test sample if a minimum quantity of 2 mL (0.1 ounce) is assured in the test cup.

(d) If experience or other data indicate that the hazard of a material is greater or less than indicated by the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Associate Administrator may revise the classification or make the material subject or not subject to the requirements of parts 171 through 185 of this subchapter.
