
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.38 Delegations to the Assistant Secretary for Administration.
####### Personnel.

(b)(1) Conduct a personnel management program for the Office of the Secretary of Transportation, with authority to take, direct others to take, recommend or approve any personnel action with respect to such authority.

(2) Serve as Vice Chair of the Departmental Executive Resources Board.

(3) Exercise emergency authority to hire without the prior approval of the Deputy Secretary normally required by departmental procedures implementing general employment limitations when in the judgment of the Assistant Secretary immediate action is necessary to effect the hire and avoid the loss of a well-qualified job applicant, and for similar reasons.

(4) Review proposals of the Office of the Secretary for each new appointment or transfer to verify the essentiality of the position.

(5) Approve employment of experts and consultants in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109.

(6) Provide policy and overall direction in the execution of the DOT Labor-Management Relations Program.

(7) Develop and operate the Federal Employee Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Program in accordance with Executive Order 12564 and The Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991, Public Law 102-143, Title V.

(8) Serve as the Chief Human Capital Officer:
