
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart D - Definitions Classification, Packing Group Assignments and Exceptions for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.134 Class 6, Division 6.2 - Definitions and exceptions.
######## Exceptions.

(b)The following are not subject to the requirements of this subchapter as Division 6.2 materials:

(1) A material that does not contain an infectious substance or that is unlikely to cause disease in humans or animals.

(2) Non-infectious biological materials from humans, animals, or plants. Examples include non-infectious cells, tissue cultures, blood or plasma from individuals not suspected of having an infectious disease, DNA, RNA or other non-infectious genetic elements.

(3) A material containing micro-organisms that are non-pathogenic to humans or animals.

(4) A material containing pathogens that have been neutralized or inactivated such that they no longer pose a health risk.

(5) A material with a low probability of containing an infectious substance, or where the concentration of the infectious substance is at a level naturally occurring in the environment so it cannot cause disease when exposure to it occurs. Examples of these materials include: Foodstuffs; environmental samples, such as water or a sample of dust or mold; and substances that have been treated so that the pathogens have been neutralized or deactivated, such as a material treated by steam sterilization, chemical disinfection, or other appropriate method, so it no longer meets the definition of an infectious substance.

(6) A biological product, including an experimental or investigational product or component of a product, subject to Federal approval, permit, review, or licensing requirements, such as those required by the Food and Drug Administration of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services or the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
