
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart D - Definitions Classification, Packing Group Assignments and Exceptions for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### § 173.137 Class 8 - Assignment of packing group.
######## In Vitro,see,see,In Vitro,see,In Vitro,see

The packing group of a Class 8 material is indicated in Column 5 of the § 172.101 Table. When the § 172.101 Table provides more than one packing group for a Class 8 material, the packing group must be determined using data obtained from tests conducted in accordance with the OECD Guidelines for the Testing of Chemicals, Test No. 435, "Membrane Barrier Test Method for Skin Corrosion" (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter) or Test No. 404, "Acute Dermal Irritation/Corrosion" (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter). A material that is determined not to be corrosive in accordance with OECD Guideline for the Testing of Chemicals, Test No. 430, "Skin Corrosion: Transcutaneous Electrical Resistance Test (TER)" (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter) or Test No. 431, "Skin Corrosion: Reconstructed Human Epidermis (RHE) Test Method" (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter) may be considered not to be corrosive to human skin for the purposes of this subchapter without further testing. However, a material determined to be corrosive in accordance with Test No. 430 must be further tested using Test No. 435 or Test No. 404. If the in vitro test results indicate that the substance or mixture is corrosive, but the test method does not clearly distinguish between assignment of packing groups II and III, the material may be considered to be in packing group II without further testing. The packing group assignment using data obtained from tests conducted in accordance with OECD Guideline Test No. 404 or Test No. 435 must be as follows:
