
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart D - Definitions Classification, Packing Group Assignments and Exceptions for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### § 173.137 Class 8 - Assignment of packing group.
######## Calculation method based on the classification of the substances.

(2)Where a mixture has not been tested to determine its skin corrosion potential, nor is sufficient data available on similar mixtures, the corrosive properties of the substances in the mixture shall be considered to classify and assign a packing group. Applying the calculation method is only allowed if there are no synergistic effects that make the mixture more corrosive than the sum of its substances. This restriction applies only if Packing Group II or III would be assigned to the mixture.

(i) All Class 8 ingredients present at a concentration of ≥1% shall be taken into account, or <1% if these ingredients are still relevant for classifying the mixture to be corrosive to skin.

(ii) To determine whether a mixture containing corrosive substances must be considered a corrosive mixture and to assign a packing group, the calculation method in the flow chart in appendix I must be applied. For this calculation method, generic concentration limits apply where 1% is used in the first step for the assessment of the packing group I substances, and where 5% is used for the other steps respectively.

(iii) When a specific concentration limit (SCL) is assigned to a substance following its entry in the Hazardous Materials Table or in a special provision, this limit shall be used instead of the generic concentration limits (GCL).

(iv) The following formula must be used for each step of the calculation process. The criterion for a packing group is fulfilled when the result of the calculation is ≥ 1. The generic concentration limits to be used for the evaluation in each step of the calculation method are those found in appendix I of this part. Where applicable, the generic concentration limit shall be substituted by the specific concentration limit assigned to the substance(s) (SCLi), and the adapted formula is a weighted average of the different concentration limits assigned to the different substances in the mixture:
