
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart D - Definitions Classification, Packing Group Assignments and Exceptions for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.152 Exceptions for Division 5.1 (oxidizers) and Division 5.2 (organic peroxides).
######## Limited quantities.,e.g.,

(b)Limited quantities of oxidizers (Division 5.1) in Packing Group II and III and organic peroxides (Division 5.2) are excepted from labeling requirements, unless the material is offered for transportation or transported by aircraft, and are excepted from the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter when packaged in combination packagings according to this paragraph. For transportation by aircraft, the package must also conform to applicable requirements of ยง 173.27 of this part (authorized materials, inner packaging quantity limits and closure securement) and only hazardous material authorized aboard passenger-carrying aircraft may be transported as a limited quantity. A limited quantity package that conforms to the provisions of this section is not subject to the shipping paper requirements of subpart C of part 172 of this subchapter, unless the material meets the definition of a hazardous substance, hazardous waste, marine pollutant, or is offered for transportation and transported by aircraft or vessel, and is eligible for the exceptions provided in ยง 173.156 of this part. In addition, shipments of limited quantities are not subject to subpart F (Placarding) of part 172 of this subchapter. Each package must conform to the packaging requirements of subpart B of this part and may not exceed 30 kg (66 pounds) gross weight. Except for transportation by aircraft, the following combination packagings are authorized:

(1) For oxidizers in Packing Group II, inner packagings not over 1.0 L (0.3 gallon) net capacity each for liquids or not over 1.0 kg (2.2 pounds) net capacity each for solids, packed in a strong outer packaging.

(2) For oxidizers in Packing Group III, inner packagings not over 5 L (1.3 gallons) net capacity each for liquids or not over 5.0 kg (11 lbs) net capacity each for solids, packed in a strong outer packaging.

(3) For organic peroxides that do not require temperature control during transportation-

(i) Except for transportation by aircraft, for Type B or C organic peroxides, inner packagings not over 25 mL (0.845 ounces) net capacity each for liquids or 100 g (3.528 ounces) net capacity for solids, packed in a strong outer packaging.

(ii) For Type D, E, or F organic peroxides, inner packagings not over 125 mL (4.22 ounces) net capacity each for liquids or 500 g (17.64 ounces) net capacity for solids, packed in a strong outer packaging.

(c) [Reserved]
