
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.159 Batteries, wet.
######## e.g.

(2) Any battery-powered device, equipment or vehicle must be packaged for transport in a manner to prevent unintentional activation or must have an independent means of preventing unintentional activation (, packaging restricts access to activation switch, switch caps or locks, recessed switches, trigger locks, temperature sensitive circuit breakers, etc.).

(c) The following specification packagings are authorized for batteries packed without other materials provided all requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, and for transportation by aircraft, paragraph (b) of this section are met:

(1) Wooden box: 4C1, 4C2, 4D, or 4F.

(2) Fiberboard box: 4G.

(3) Plywood drum: 1D.

(4) Fiber drum: 1G.

(5) Plastic drum: 1H2.

(6) Plastic jerrican: 3H2.

(7) Plastic box: 4H2.

(d) The following non-specification packagings are authorized for batteries packed without other materials provided all requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, and for transportation by aircraft, paragraph (b) of this section are met:

(1) Electric storage batteries are firmly secured to skids or pallets capable of withstanding the shocks normally incident to transportation are authorized for transportation by rail, highway, or vessel. The height of the completed unit must not exceed 1times the width of the skid or pallet. The unit must be capable of withstanding, without damage, a superimposed weight equal to two times the weight of the unit or, if the weight of the unit exceeds 907 kg (2,000 pounds), a superimposed weight of 1,814 kg (4,000 pounds). Battery terminals must not be relied upon to support any part of the superimposed weight and must not short out if an electrically conductive material is placed in direct contact with them.

(2) Electric storage batteries weighing 225 kg (500 pounds) or more, consisting of carriers' equipment, may be shipped by rail when mounted on suitable skids. Such shipments may not be offered in interchange service.

(3) One to three batteries not over 11.3 kg (25 pounds) each, packed in strong outer boxes. The maximum authorized gross weight is 34 kg (75 pounds).

(4) Not more than four batteries not over 7 kg (15 pounds) each, packed in strong outer fiberboard or wooden boxes. The maximum authorized gross weight is 30 kg (65 pounds).

(5) Not more than five batteries not over 4.5 kg (10 pounds) each, packed in strong outer fiberboard or wooden boxes. The maximum authorized gross weight is 30 kg (65 pounds).

(6) Single batteries not exceeding 34 kg (75 pounds) each, packed in 5-sided slip covers or in completely closed fiberboard boxes. Slip covers and boxes must be of solid or double-faced corrugated fiberboard of at least 91 kg (200 pounds) Mullen test strength. The slip cover or fiberboard box must fit snugly and provide inside top clearance of at least 1.3 cm (0.5 inch) above battery terminals and filler caps with reinforcement in place. Assembled for shipment, the bottom edges of the slipcover must come to within 2.5 cm (1 inch) of the bottom of the battery. The completed package (battery and box or slip cover) must be capable of withstanding a top-to-bottom compression test of at least 225 kg (500 pounds) without damage to battery terminal caps, cell covers or filler caps.

(7) Single batteries exceeding 34 kg (75 pounds) each may be packed in completely closed fiberboard boxes. Boxes must be of double-wall corrugated fiberboard of at least 181 kg (400 pounds) test, or solid fiberboard testing at least 181 kg (400 pounds); a box may have hand holes in its ends provided that the hand holes will not materially weaken the box. Sides and ends of the box must have cushioning between the battery and walls of the box; combined thickness of cushioning material and walls of the box must not be less than 1.3 cm (0.5 inch); and cushioning must be excelsior pads, corrugated fiberboard, or other suitable cushioning material. The bottom of the battery must be protected by a minimum of one excelsior pad or by a double-wall corrugated fiberboard pad. The top of the battery must be protected by a wood frame, corrugated trays or scored sheets of corrugated fiberboard having minimum test of 91 kg (200 pounds), or other equally effective cushioning material. Top protection must bear evenly on connectors and/or edges of the battery cover to facilitate stacking of batteries. No more than one battery may be placed in one box. The maximum authorized gross weight is 91 kg (200 pounds).

(e) When transported by highway or rail, electric storage batteries containing electrolyte, acid, or alkaline corrosive battery fluid and electric storage batteries packed with electrolyte, acid, or alkaline corrosive battery fluid, are not subject to any other requirements of this subchapter, if all of the following are met:

(1) No other hazardous materials may be transported in the same vehicle;

(2) The batteries must be loaded or braced so as to prevent damage and short circuits in transit;

(3) Any other material loaded in the same vehicle must be blocked, braced, or otherwise secured to prevent contact with or damage to the batteries. In addition, batteries on pallets, must be stacked to not cause damage to another pallet in transportation;

(4) Except for the purpose of consolidating shipments of batteries for recycling, the transport vehicle may not carry material shipped by any person other than the shipper of the batteries; and

(5) Shipments made under this paragraph are subject to the incident reporting requirements in ยง 171.15.

(f) Batteries can be considered as non-spillable provided they are capable of withstanding the following two tests, without leakage of battery fluid from the battery:
