
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.159 Batteries, wet.
######## Pressure differential test.

(2)Following the vibration test, the battery must be stored for six hours at 24 &#xB0;C +/-4 &#xB0;C (75 &#xB0;F +/-7 &#xB0;F) while subjected to a pressure differential of at least 88 kPa (13 psig). The battery must be tested in three mutually perpendicular positions (to include testing with fill openings and vents, if any, in an inverted position) for at least six hours in each position.

(g) Electrolyte, acid or alkaline corrosive battery fluid, packed with batteries wet or dry, must be packed in one of the following specification packagings:

(1) In 4C1, 4C2, 4D, or 4F wooden boxes with inner receptacles of glass, not over 4.0 L (1 gallon) each with not over 8.0 L (2 gallons) total in each outside container. Inside containers must be well-cushioned and separated from batteries by a strong solid wooden partition. The completed package must conform to Packing Group III requirements.

(2) Electrolyte, acid, or alkaline corrosive battery fluid included with electric storage batteries and filling kits may be packed in strong rigid outer packagings when shipments are made by, for, or to the Departments of the Army, Navy, or Air Force of the United States. Packagings must conform to military specifications. The electrolyte, acid, or alkaline corrosive battery fluid must be packed in polyethylene bottles of not over 1.0 L (0.3 gallon) capacity each. Not more than 24 bottles, securely separated from electric storage batteries and kits, may be offered for transportation or transported in each package.

(3) In 4G fiberboard boxes with not more than 12 inside packagings of polyethylene or other material resistant to the lading, each not over 2.0 L (0.5 gallon) capacity each. Completed packages must conform to Packing Group III requirements. Inner packagings must be adequately separated from the storage battery. The maximum authorized gross weight is 29 kg (64 pounds). These packages are not authorized for transportation by aircraft.

(h)(1) Dry batteries or battery charger devices may be packaged in 4G fiberboard boxes with inner receptacles containing battery fluid. Completed packages must conform to the Packing Group III performance level. Not more than 12 inner receptacles may be packed in one outer box. The maximum authorized gross weight for the completed package is 34 kg (75 pounds).

(2) Battery fluid, acid (UN2796) may be packaged in a UN6HG2 composite packaging further packed in a UN4G fiberboard box with a dry storage battery. The UN6HG2 composite packaging may not exceed 8.0 liters in capacity. Completed packages must conform to the Packing Group III performance level. The maximum authorized gross weight for the completed package is 37.0 kg (82.0 lbs).

(i) When approved by the Associate Administrator, electric storage batteries, containing electrolyte or corrosive battery fluid in a separate reservoir from which fluid is injected into the battery cells by a power device cartridge assembled with the battery, and which meet the criteria of paragraph (f) are not subject to any other requirements of this subchapter.
