
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### § 173.161 Chemical kits and first aid kits.
######## Authorized materials.

(b)(1) The kits may only contain hazardous materials for which packaging exceptions are provided in column 8(A) of the § 172.101 Hazardous Materials Table in this subchapter. For transportation by aircraft, the kits may only contain quantities of hazardous materials authorized as excepted quantities or as limited quantities in §§ 173.4a and 173.27(f) of this part, respectively. Materials forbidden for transportation by passenger aircraft or cargo aircraft may not be included in the kits.

(2) The packing group assigned to the chemical kit and first aid kit as a whole must be the most stringent packing group assigned to any individual substance in the kit. The packing group must be shown on the shipping paper. Where the kit contains only hazardous materials to which no packing group is assigned, the packagings shall meet the Packing Group II performance level. Where the kit contains only hazardous materials to which no packing group is assigned, the packing group does not have to be indicated on the shipping paper.
