
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.161 Chemical kits and first aid kits.
######## Packaging.

(c)Except for transportation by aircraft or vessel, chemical kits and first aid kits must be packaged in combination packagings conforming to the packaging requirements of subpart B of this part. For transportation by aircraft or vessel, chemical kits and first aid kits must be packaged in specification combination packagings based on the performance level of the most stringent packing group of material contained within the kit. For transportation by aircraft, friction-type closures must be secured by secondary means and inner packagings intended to contain liquids must be capable of meeting the pressure differential requirements prescribed in ยง 173.27(c) of this subchapter. Inner and outer packaging quantity limits for packages are as follows:

(1) Except for liquids of Division 5.2 (organic peroxide), inner packagings containing not more than 250 mL. Except for transportation by aircraft, for Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) liquids of Type B and C, inner packagings containing not more than 25 mL and for Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) liquids of Type D, E and F, inner packagings containing not more than 125 mL. For transportation by aircraft, for Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) liquids of Type D, E and F (only), inner packagings containing not more than 125 mL;

(2) Except for solids of Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) of Type B and C, inner packagings containing not more than 250 g. Except for transportation by aircraft, for a Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) solid of Type B and C, inner packagings containing not more than 100 g. For transportation by aircraft, for a Division 5.2 (organic peroxide) solid of Type D, E and F (only), inner packagings containing not more than 250 g;

(3) No more than 10 L or 10 kg of hazardous material may be contained in one outer package (excluding dry ice). For transportation by aircraft, no more than 1 L or 1 kg of hazardous material may be contained in one kit (excluding dry ice);

(4) Each package must conform to the packaging requirements of subpart B of this part and may not exceed 30 kg (66 pounds) gross weight;

(5) Except for Carbon dioxide, solid (Dry ice), UN1845, no other hazardous materials may be packed within the same outer packaging as the kits. Dry ice must be packaged in accordance with ยง 173.217 of this subchapter;

(6) The kits must include sufficient absorbent material to completely absorb the contents of any liquid hazardous materials contained in the kits. The contents must be separated, placed, or packed, and closed with cushioning material to protect them from damage; and

(7) The contents of the kits must be packed so there will be no possibility of the mixture of contents causing dangerous evolution of heat or gas.
