
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### § 173.165 Polyester resin kits.
######## General requirements.

(a)Polyester resin kits consisting of a base material component (Class 3, Packing Group II or III) or (Division 4.1, Packing Group II or III) and an activator component (Type D, E, or F organic peroxide that does not require temperature control)-

(1) The organic peroxide component must be packed in inner packagings not over 125 mL (4.22 fluid ounces) net capacity each for liquids or 500 g (17.64 ounces) net capacity each for solids.

(2) Except for transportation by aircraft, the flammable liquid component must be packaged in suitable inner packagings.

(i) For transportation by aircraft, a Class 3 Packing Group II base material is limited to a quantity of 5 L (1.3 gallons) in metal or plastic inner packagings and 1 L (0.3 gallons) in glass inner packagings. A Class 3 Packing Group III base material is limited to a quantity of 10 L (2.6 gallons) in metal or plastic inner packagings and 2.5 L (0.66 gallons) in glass inner packagings.

(ii) For transportation by aircraft, a Division 4.1 Packing Group II base material is limited to a quantity of 5 kg (11 pounds) in metal or plastic inner packagings and 1 kg (2.2 pounds) in glass inner packagings. A Division 4.1 Packing Group III base material is limited to a quantity of 10 kg (22 lbs) in metal or plastic inner packagings and 2.5 kg (5.5 pounds) in glass inner packagings.

(3) If the flammable liquid or solid component and the organic peroxide component will not interact dangerously in the event of leakage, they may be packed in the same outer packaging.

(4) The Packing Group assigned will be II or III, according to the criteria for Class 3, or Division 4.1, as appropriate, applied to the base material. Additionally, polyester resin kits must be packaged in specification combination packagings, based on the performance level required of the base material (II or III) contained within the kit, as prescribed in § 173.202, § 173.203, § 173.212, or § 173.213, as appropriate.

(5) For transportation by aircraft, the following additional requirements apply:

(i) Closures on inner packagings containing liquids must be secured by secondary means;

(ii) Inner packagings containing liquids must be capable of meeting the pressure differential requirements prescribed in § 173.27(c); and
