
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.165 Polyester resin kits.
######## Limited quantities.

(c)Limited quantity packages of polyester resin kits are excepted from labeling requirements, unless the material is offered for transportation or transported by aircraft, and are excepted from the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter when packaged in combination packagings according to this paragraph (c). For transportation by aircraft, only hazardous material authorized aboard passenger-carrying aircraft may be transported as a limited quantity. A limited quantity package that conforms to the provisions of this section is not subject to the shipping paper requirements of subpart C of part 172 of this subchapter, unless the material meets the definition of a hazardous substance, hazardous waste, marine pollutant, or is offered for transportation and transported by aircraft or vessel, and is eligible for the exceptions provided in ยง 173.156. In addition, shipments of limited quantities are not subject to subpart F (Placarding) of part 172 of this subchapter. Each package must conform to the general packaging requirements of subpart B of this part and may not exceed 30 kg (66 pounds) gross weight.

(1) Except for transportation by aircraft, the organic peroxide component must be packed in inner packagings not over 125 mL (4.22 fluid ounces) net capacity each for liquids or 500 g (17.64 ounces) net capacity each for solids. For transportation by aircraft, the organic peroxide component must be packed in inner packagings not over 30 mL (1 fluid ounce) net capacity each for liquids or 100 g (3.5 ounces) net capacity each for solids.

(2) Except for transportation by aircraft, the flammable liquid component must be packed in inner packagings not over 5 L (1.3 gallons) net capacity each for a Packing Group II and Packing Group III liquid. For transportation by aircraft, the flammable liquid component must be packed in inner packagings not over 1 L (0.3 gallons) net capacity each for a Packing Group II material. For transportation by aircraft, the flammable liquid component must be packed in metal or plastic inner packagings not over 5.0 L (1.3 gallons) net capacity each or glass inner packagings not over 2.5 L (0.66 gallons) net capacity each for a Packing Group III material.

(3) Except for transportation by aircraft, the flammable solid component must be packed in inner packagings not over 5 kg (11 pounds) net capacity each for a Packing Group II and Packing Group III solid. For transportation by aircraft, the flammable solid component must be packed in inner packagings not over 1 kg (2.2 pounds) net capacity each for a Packing Group II material. For transportation by aircraft, the flammable solid component must be packed in metal or plastic inner packagings not over 5.0 kg (11 pounds) net capacity each or glass inner packagings not over 2.5 kg (5.5 pounds) net capacity each for a Packing Group III material.

(4) If the flammable liquid or solid component and the organic peroxide component will not interact dangerously in the event of leakage, they may be packed in the same outer packaging.

(5) For transportation by aircraft, the following additional requirements apply:

(i) Closures on inner packagings containing liquids must be secured by secondary means as prescribed in ยง 173.27(d);

(ii) Inner packagings containing liquids must be capable of meeting the pressure differential requirements prescribed in ยง 173.27(c); and
