
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.166 Safety devices.
######## Shipments to recycling or waste disposal facilities.

(4)When offered for domestic transportation by highway, rail freight, cargo vessel or cargo aircraft, a serviceable safety device classed as either Class 9 (UN3268) or Division 1.4G removed from a motor vehicle that was manufactured as required for use in the United States may be offered for transportation and transported without compliance with the shipping paper requirement prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. However, when these articles are shipped to a recycling facility, the word "Recycled" must be entered on the shipping paper immediately after the basic description prescribed in ยง 172.202 of this subchapter. No more than one device is authorized in the packaging prescribed in paragraphs (e)(1), (2) or (3) of this section. The device must be cushioned and secured within the package to prevent shifting during transportation.

(5) An air bag inflator, air bag module, or seat-belt pretensioner that was classed and approved for transportation prior to January 1, 2015 may continue to be transported under the terms of the existing approval, using the appropriate proper shipping name "Safety Devices" or "Safety Devices, Pyrotechnic" based on the classification of the device as assigned by PHMSA or the authorized person or agency that examined and tested the design type.

(6) Until January 1, 2016, for domestic transportation by highway, rail, and vessel, packages containing air bag inflators, air bag modules, or seat-belt pretensioners may be;

(i) Marked with either the appropriate proper shipping name, or an appropriate proper shipping name authorized by ยง 172.101 in effect on December 31, 2014; and

(ii) Described on a shipping paper with either the appropriate proper shipping name, or an appropriate proper shipping name authorized by ยง 172.101 in effect on December 31, 2014.
