
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.172 Aircraft hydraulic power unit fuel tank.

Aircraft hydraulic power unit fuel tanks containing a mixture of anhydrous hydrazine and monomethyl hydrazine (M86 fuel) and designed for installation as complete units in aircraft are excepted from the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter when they conform to either of the following conditions:

(a) The unit must consist of an aluminum pressure vessel made from tubing and having welded heads. Primary containment of the fuel within this vessel must consist of a welded aluminum bladder having a maximum internal volume of 46 L (12 gallons). The outer vessel must have a minimum design gauge pressure of 1,275 kPa (185 psig) and a minimum burst gauge pressure of 2,755 kPa (400 psig). Each vessel must be leak-checked during manufacture and before shipment and must be found leakproof. The complete inner unit must be securely packed in non-combustible cushioning material, such as vermiculite, in a strong outer tightly closed metal packaging which will adequately protect all fittings. Maximum quantity of fuel per primary containment and package is 42 L (11 gallons); or

(b) The unit must consist of an aluminum pressure vessel. Primary containment of the fuel within this vessel must consist of a welded hermetically sealed fuel compartment with an elastomeric bladder having a maximum internal volume of 46 L (12 gallons). The pressure vessel must have a minimum design gauge pressure of 5,170 kPa (750 psig). Each vessel must be leak-checked during manufacture and before shipment and must be found leakproof, and must be securely packed in non-combustible cushioning material, such as vermiculite, in a strong outer tightly closed metal packaging which will adequately protect all fittings. Maximum quantity of fuel per primary containment and package is 42 L (11 gallons).
