
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.175 Permeation devices.

Permeation devices that contain hazardous materials and that are used for calibrating air quality monitoring devices are not subject to the requirements of this subchapter provided the following requirements are met:

(a) Each device must be constructed of a material compatible with the hazardous materials it contains;

(b) The total contents of hazardous materials in each device is limited to 2 ml (0.07 ounces) and the device must not be liquid full at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F);

(c) Each permeation device must be placed in a sealed, high impact resistant, tubular inner packaging of plastic or equivalent material. Sufficient absorbent material must be contained in the inner packaging to completely absorb the contents of the device. The closure of the inner packaging must be securely held in place with wire, tape or other positive means;

(d) Each inner packaging must be contained in a secondary packaging constructed of metal, or plastic having a minimum thickness of 1.5 mm (0.06 inches). The secondary packaging must be hermetically sealed;

(e) The secondary packaging must be securely packed in strong outer packaging. The completed package must be capable of withstanding, without breakage or leakage of any inner packaging and without significant reduction in effectiveness:

(1) The following free drops onto a rigid, non resilient, flat and horizontal surface from a height of 1.8 m (5.9 feet):

(i) One drop flat on the bottom;

(ii) One drop flat on the top;

(iii) One drop flat on the long side;

(iv) One drop flat on the short side;

(v) One drop on a corner at the junction of three intersecting edges; and

(2) A force applied to the top surface for a duration of 24 hours, equivalent to the total weight of identical packages if stacked to a height of 3 m (10 feet) (including the test sample).

(3) Each of the above tests may be performed on different but identical packages.

(f) The gross mass of the completed package must not exceed 30 kg.

(g) For transportation by aircraft, permeation devices must be transported as cargo and may not be carried onboard an aircraft by passengers or crewmembers in carry-on baggage, checked baggage, or on their person unless specifically excepted by ยง 175.10.
