
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.185 Lithium cells and batteries.
######## Size limits.

(1)(i) The Watt-hour (Wh) rating may not exceed 20 Wh for a lithium ion cell or 100 Wh for a lithium ion battery. After December 31, 2015, each lithium ion battery subject to this provision must be marked with the Watt-hour rating on the outside case.

(ii) The lithium content may not exceed 1 g for a lithium metal cell or 2 g for a lithium metal battery.

(iii) Except when lithium cells or batteries are packed with or contained in equipment in quantities not exceeding 5 kg net weight, the outer package that contains lithium cells or batteries must be appropriately marked: "PRIMARY LITHIUM BATTERIES-FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT", "LITHIUM METAL BATTERIES-FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT", "LITHIUM ION BATTERIES-FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT", or "LITHIUM BATTERIES-FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT", or labeled with a "CARGO AIRCRAFT ONLY" label as specified in ยง 172.448 of this subchapter.

(iv) For transportation by highway or rail only, the lithium content of the cell and battery may be increased to 5 g for a lithium metal cell or 25 g for a lithium metal battery and 60 Wh for a lithium ion cell or 300 Wh for a lithium ion battery, provided the outer package is marked: "LITHIUM BATTERIES-FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD AIRCRAFT AND VESSEL." A package marked in accordance with this paragraph does not need to display the marking required in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.

(v) The marking specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section must have a background of contrasting color, and the letters in the marking must be:

(A) At least 6 mm (0.25 inch) in height on packages having a gross weight of 30 kg (66 pounds) or less, except that smaller font may be used as necessary when package dimensions so require.

(B) At least 12 mm (0.5 inch) in height on packages having a gross weight of more than 30 kg (66 pounds).

(vi) When a package marked or labeled in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iii) or (iv) of this section is placed in an overpack, the selected marking or label must either be clearly visible through the overpack, or the marking or label must also be affixed on the outside of the overpack.

(vii) Except when lithium cells or batteries are packed with, or contained in, equipment, each package must not exceed 30 kg (66 pounds) gross weight.
