
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.185 Lithium cells and batteries.
######## Lithium battery mark.

(3)Each package must display the lithium battery mark except when a package contains button cell batteries installed in equipment (including circuit boards), or no more than four lithium cells or two lithium batteries contained in equipment, where there are not more than two packages in the consignment.

(i) The mark must indicate the UN number: "UN3090" for lithium metal cells or batteries; or "UN3480" for lithium ion cells or batteries. Where the lithium cells or batteries are contained in, or packed with, equipment, the UN number "UN3091" or "UN3481," as appropriate, must be indicated. Where a package contains lithium cells or batteries assigned to different UN numbers, all applicable UN numbers must be indicated on one or more marks. The package must be of such size that there is adequate space to affix the mark on one side without the mark being folded.

(A) The mark must be in the form of a rectangle or a square with hatched edging. The mark must be not less than 100 mm (3.9 inches) wide by 100 mm (3.9 inches) high and the minimum width of the hatching must be 5 mm (0.2 inches), except marks of 100 mm (3.9 inches) wide by 70 mm (2.8 inches) high may be used on a package containing lithium batteries when the package is too small for the larger mark;

(B) The symbols and letters must be black on white or suitable contrasting background and the hatching must be red;

(C) The "*" must be replaced by the appropriate UN number(s) and the "**" must be replaced by a telephone number for additional information; and

(D) Where dimensions are not specified, all features shall be in approximate proportion to those shown.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) When packages are placed in an overpack, the lithium battery mark shall either be clearly visible through the overpack or be reproduced on the outside of the overpack and the overpack shall be marked with the word "OVERPACK". The lettering of the "OVERPACK" mark shall be at least 12 mm (0.47 inches) high.
