
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.185 Lithium cells and batteries.
######## Air transportation.

(4)(i) For transportation by aircraft, lithium cells and batteries may not exceed the limits in the following Table 1 to paragraph (c)(4)(i). The limits on the maximum number of batteries and maximum net quantity of batteries in the following table may not be combined in the same package. The limits in the following table do not apply to lithium cells and batteries packed with, or contained in, equipment.

(ii) Not more than one package prepared in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section may be placed into an overpack.

(iii) A shipper is not permitted to offer for transport more than one package prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section in any single consignment.

(iv) Each shipment with packages required to display the paragraph (c)(3)(i) lithium battery mark must include an indication on the air waybill of compliance with this paragraph (c)(4) (or the applicable ICAO Technical Instructions Packing Instruction), when an air waybill is used.

(v) Packages and overpacks of lithium batteries prepared in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section must be offered to the operator separately from cargo which is not subject to the requirements of this subchapter and must not be loaded into a unit load device before being offered to the operator.

(vi) For lithium batteries packed with, or contained in, equipment, the number of batteries in each package is limited to the minimum number required to power the piece of equipment, plus two spare sets, and the total net quantity (mass) of the lithium cells or batteries in the completed package must not exceed 5 kg. A "set" of cells or batteries is the number of individual cells or batteries that are required to power each piece of equipment.

(vii) Each person who prepares a package for transport containing lithium cells or batteries, including cells or batteries packed with, or contained in, equipment in accordance with the conditions and limitations of this paragraph (c)(4), must receive instruction on these conditions and limitations, corresponding to their functions.

(viii) Lithium cells and batteries must not be packed in the same outer packaging with other hazardous materials. Packages prepared in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section must not be placed into an overpack with packages containing hazardous materials and articles of Class 1 (explosives) other than Division 1.4S, Division 2.1 (flammable gases), Class 3 (flammable liquids), Division 4.1 (flammable solids), or Division 5.1 (oxidizers).

(5) For transportation by aircraft, a package that exceeds the number or quantity (mass) limits in the table shown in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the overpack limit described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, or the consignment limit described in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section is subject to all applicable requirements of this subchapter, except that a package containing no more than 2.5 kg lithium metal cells or batteries or 10 kg lithium ion cells or batteries is not subject to the UN performance packaging requirements in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section when the package displays both the lithium battery mark in paragraph (c)(3)(i) and the Class 9 Lithium Battery label specified in ยง 172.447 of this subchapter. This paragraph does not apply to batteries or cells packed with or contained in equipment.
