
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.193 Bromoacetone, methyl bromide, chloropicrin and methyl bromide or methyl chloride mixtures, etc.

(a) Bromoacetone must be packaged as follows in metal boxes (4A, 4B or 4N) or wooden boxes (4C1, 4C2, 4D or 4F) with inner glass receptacles or tubes in hermetically sealed metal receptacles in corrugated fiberboard cartons. Bottles may not contain over 500 g (17.6 ounces) of liquid each and must be cushioned in cans with at least 12.7 mm (0.5 inch) of absorbent material. Total amount of liquid in the outer box must not exceed 11 kg (24 pounds). Packagings must conform to the requirements of part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group I performance level.

(b) Bromoacetone, methyl bromide, chloropicrin and methyl bromide mixtures, chloropicrin and methyl chloride mixtures, and chloropicrin mixtures charged with non-flammable, non-liquefied compressed gas must be packed in Specification 3A, 3AA, 3B, 3C, 3E, 4A, 4B, 4BA, 4BW, or 4C cylinders having not over 113 kg (250 pounds) water capacity (nominal) except:

(1) DOT Specification 4BW cylinders containing chloropicrin and methyl bromide mixtures may not exceed 453 kg (1000 pounds); and

(2) The capacity limit of this paragraph does not apply to shipments of methyl bromide.

(c) Methyl bromide mixtures containing up to 2% chloropicrin must be packaged in 4G fiberboard boxes with inside metal cans containing not over one pound each, or inside metal cans with a minimum wall thickness of 0.007 inch containing not over 1pounds each. The one-pound can must be capable of withstanding an internal pressure of 130 psig without leakage or permanent distortion. Vapor pressure of the contents must not exceed 130 psig at 55 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F). The 1-pound can must be capable of withstanding an internal pressure of 140 psig without leakage or permanent distortion. Vapor pressure of the contents must not exceed 140 psig at 55 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F). Cans must not be liquid full at 130 &#xB0;F. Cans must be constructed of tinplate or lined with suitable material and must have concave or pressure ends.

(d) Cylinders, except those containing methyl bromide, must conform to ยง 173.40 of this part.
