
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.196 Category A infectious substances.
######## Category A infectious substances packaging.

(a)A packaging for a Division 6.2 material that is a Category A infectious substance must meet the test standards of ยง 178.609 of this subchapter and must be marked in conformance with ยง 178.503(f) of this subchapter. A packaging for a Category A infectious substance is a triple packaging consisting of the following components:

(1) A leakproof primary receptacle.

(2) A leakproof secondary packaging. If multiple fragile primary receptacles are placed in a single secondary packaging, they must be either wrapped individually or separated to prevent contact between them.

(3) A rigid outer packaging of adequate strength for its capacity, mass and intended use; including, drums (1A1, 1A2, 1B1, 1B2, 1N1, 1N2, 1H1, 1H2, 1D, 1G); boxes (4A, 4B, 4N, 4C1, 4C2, 4D, 4F, 4G, 4H1, 4H2); or jerricans (3A1, 3A2, 3B1, 3B2, 3H1, 3H2). The outer packaging must measure not less than 100 mm (3.9 inches) at its smallest overall external dimension.

(4) For a liquid infectious substance, an absorbent material placed between the primary receptacle and the secondary packaging. The absorbent material must be sufficient to absorb the entire contents of all primary receptacles.

(5) An itemized list of contents enclosed between the secondary packaging and the outer packaging.

(6) The primary receptacle or secondary packaging used for infectious substances must be capable of withstanding, without leakage, an internal pressure producing a pressure differential of not less than 95 kPa (0.95 bar, 14 psi).

(7) The primary receptacle or secondary packaging used for infectious substances must be capable of withstanding without leakage temperatures in the range of -40 &#xB0;C to + 55 &#xB0;C (-40 &#xB0;F to + 131 &#xB0;F).
