
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.199 Category B infectious substances.
######## i.e.,

(7) The name and telephone number of a person who is either knowledgeable about the material being shipped and has comprehensive emergency response and incident mitigation information for the material, or has immediate access to a person who possesses such knowledge and information, must be included on a written document (such as an air waybill or bill of lading) or on the outer packaging. The telephone number must be monitored during a company's administrative hours (company's operational business hours).

(8) For transportation by aircraft, each package, overpack, pallet, or unit load device containing a Category B infectious substance must be inspected for leakage when it is unloaded from the aircraft. If evidence of leakage is found, the cargo compartment in which the package, overpack, pallet, or unit load device was transported must be disinfected. Disinfection may be by any means that will make the material released ineffective at transmitting disease.

(9) A packaging containing inner packagings of Category B infectious substances may not contain other hazardous materials except-

(i) Refrigerants, such as dry ice or liquid nitrogen, as authorized under paragraph (d) of this section;

(ii) Anticoagulants used to stabilize blood or plasma; or

(iii) Small quantities of Class 3, Class 8, Class 9, or other materials in Packing Groups II and III used to stabilize or prevent degradation of the sample, provided the quantity of such materials does not exceed 30 mL (1 ounce) or 30 g (1 ounce) in each inner packaging. Such preservatives are not subject to the requirements of this subchapter.

(10) Clear instructions on filling and closing a packaging used to transport a Category B infectious substance must be provided by the packaging manufacturer and subsequent distributors to the consignor or person who prepares the package to enable the package to be correctly prepared for transport. A copy or electronic image of these instructions must be retained by the manufacturer and subsequent distributors for at least one year from the date of issuance, and made available for inspection by a Federal or state government representative upon request. Packagings must be filled and closed in accordance with the information provided by the packaging manufacturer or subsequent distributor.
