
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.199 Category B infectious substances.
######## Liquid Category B infectious substances.

(b)Liquid Category B infectious substances must be packaged in conformance with the following provisions:

(1) The primary receptacle must be leakproof.

(2) Absorbent material must be placed between the primary receptacle and secondary packaging. If several fragile primary receptacles are placed in a single secondary packaging, they must be either individually wrapped or separated to prevent contact between them. The absorbent material must be of sufficient quantity to absorb the entire contents of the primary receptacles and not compromise the integrity of the cushioning material or the outer packaging.

(3) The secondary packaging must be leakproof.

(4) For shipments by aircraft, the primary receptacle or the secondary packaging must be capable of withstanding without leakage an internal pressure producing a pressure differential of not less than 95 kPa (0.95 bar, 14 psi).

(5) For shipments by aircraft, the maximum quantity contained in each primary receptacle, including any material used to stabilize or prevent degradation of the sample, may not exceed 1 L (34 ounces), and the maximum quantity contained in each outer packaging, including any material used to stabilize or prevent degradation of the samples, may not exceed 4 L (1 gallon). The outer packaging limitation does not include ice, dry ice, or liquid nitrogen when used to maintain the integrity of the material.
