
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.199 Category B infectious substances.
######## Solid Category B infectious substances.

(c)Solid Category B infectious substances must be packaged in a triple packaging, consisting of a primary receptacle, secondary packaging, and outer packaging, conforming to the following provisions:

(1) The primary receptacle must be siftproof.

(2) If several fragile primary receptacles are placed in a single secondary packaging, they must be either individually wrapped or separated to prevent contact between them.

(3) The secondary packaging must be siftproof.

(4) If residual liquid may be present in the primary receptacle during transportation, then the material must be transported in accordance with requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. A solid material that may become liquid during transportation must be transported in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) Except for packages containing body parts, organs, or whole bodies, for shipment by aircraft, the outer packaging may not contain more than 4 kg (8.8 pounds), including any material used to stabilize or prevent degradation of the samples. The outer packaging limitation does not include ice, dry ice, or liquid nitrogen when used to maintain the integrity of the material.
