
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.199 Category B infectious substances.
######## Refrigerated or frozen specimens (ice, dry ice, and liquid nitrogen).

(d)In addition to complying with the requirements in this paragraph (d), dry ice and liquid nitrogen must be offered for transportation or transported in accordance with the applicable requirements of this subchapter.

(1) Ice or dry ice must be placed outside the secondary packaging or in an overpack. Interior supports must be provided to secure the secondary packagings in the original position. If ice is used, the outside packaging must be leakproof or must have a leakproof liner. If dry ice is used, the outside packaging must permit the release of carbon dioxide gas and otherwise meet the provisions in ยง 173.217. The primary receptacle and secondary packaging must maintain their integrity at the temperature of the refrigerant used, as well as the temperatures and pressures of transport by aircraft they could be subjected to if refrigeration were lost, and sufficient absorbent material must be provided to absorb all liquid, including melted ice.

(2) The package is marked "Carbon dioxide, solid" or "Dry ice" and an indication that the material being refrigerated is used for diagnostic or treatment purposes (e.g., frozen medical specimens).
