
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### § 173.222 Dangerous goods in articles, machinery, or apparatus.

Hazardous materials in articles, machinery, or apparatus are excepted from the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter when packaged according to this section. Hazardous materials in articles, machinery, or apparatus must be packaged in strong outer packagings, unless the receptacles containing the hazardous materials are afforded adequate protection by the construction of the article, machinery, or apparatus. Each package must conform to the packaging requirements of subpart B of this part, except for the requirements in §§ 173.24(a)(1) and 173.27(e), and the following requirements:

(a) If the article, machinery, or apparatus contains more than one hazardous material, the materials must not be capable of reacting dangerously together.

(b) The nature of the containment must be as follows-

(1) Damage to the receptacles containing the hazardous materials during transport is unlikely. However, in the event of damage to the receptacles containing the hazardous materials, no leakage of the hazardous materials from the article, machinery, or apparatus is possible. A leakproof liner may be used to satisfy this requirement.

(2) Receptacles containing hazardous materials must be secured and cushioned so as to prevent their breakage or leakage and so as to control their shifting within the article, machinery, or apparatus during normal conditions of transportation. Cushioning material must not react dangerously with the content of the receptacles. Any leakage of the contents must not substantially impair the protective properties of the cushioning material.

(3) Receptacles for gases, their contents and filling densities must conform to the applicable requirements of this subchapter, unless otherwise approved by the Associate Administrator.

(c)(1) Except for transportation by aircraft, the total net quantity of hazardous materials contained in one item of an article, machinery, or apparatus must not exceed the following:

(i) In the case of solids or liquids, the limited quantity amount specified in the corresponding section referenced in Column (8A) of the § 172.101 Table;

(ii) 0.5 kg (1.1 pounds) in the case of Division 2.2 gases.

(iii) When an article, machinery, or apparatus contains multiple hazardous materials, the quantity of each hazardous material must not exceed the quantity specified in the corresponding section referenced in Column (8A) of the § 172.101 Table, or for gases, paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) For transportation by aircraft, the total net quantity of hazardous materials contained in one item of an article, machinery, or apparatus must not exceed the following:

(i) 1 kg (2.2 pounds) in the case of solids;

(ii) 0.5 L (0.1 gallons) in the case of liquids;

(iii) 0.5 kg (1.1 pounds) in the case of Division 2.2 gases. Division 2.2 gases with subsidiary risks and refrigerated liquefied gases are not authorized;

(iv) A total quantity of not more than the aggregate of that permitted in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, for each category of material in the package, when a package contains hazardous materials in two or more of the categories in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section; and

(d) Except for transportation by aircraft, when a package contains hazardous materials in two or more of the categories listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section the total quantity required by § 172.202(c) of this subchapter to be entered on the shipping paper must be either the aggregate quantity, or the estimated quantity, of all hazardous materials, expressed as net mass.
