
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.225 Packaging requirements and other provisions for organic peroxides.
######## Concentration of diluents.

(4)The fourth column specifies the type and concentration (mass percent) of diluent or inert solid, when required. Other types and concentrations of diluents may be used if approved by the Associate Administrator.

(i) The required mass percent of "Diluent type A" is specified in column 4a. A diluent type A is an organic liquid that does not detrimentally affect the thermal stability or increase the hazard of the organic peroxide and with a boiling point not less than 150 &#xB0;C at atmospheric pressure. Type A diluents may be used for desensitizing all organic peroxides.

(ii) The required mass percent of "Diluent type B" is specified in column 4b. A diluent type B is an organic liquid which is compatible with the organic peroxide and which has a boiling point, at atmospheric pressure, of less than 150 &#xB0;C (302 &#xB0;F) but at least 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F), and a flash point greater than 5 &#xB0;C (41 &#xB0;F). Type B diluents may be used for desensitizing all organic peroxides, when specified in the organic peroxide tables, provided that the boiling point is at least 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F) above the SADT of the peroxide in a 50 kg (110 lbs) package. A type A diluent may be used to replace a type B diluent in equal concentration.

(iii) The required mass percent of "Inert solid" is specified in column 4c. An inert solid is a solid that does not detrimentally affect the thermal stability or hazard of the organic peroxide.
