
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.225 Packaging requirements and other provisions for organic peroxides.
######## Packing Method Table.

(d)Packagings for organic peroxides and self-reactive substances are listed in the Maximum Quantity per Packing Method Table. The packing methods are designated OP1 to OP8. The quantities specified for each packing method represent the maximum that is authorized.

(1) The following types of packagings are authorized:

(i) Drums: 1A1, 1A2, 1B1, 1B2, 1D, 1G, 1H1, 1H2;

(ii) Jerricans: 3A1, 3A2, 3B1, 3B2, 3H1, 3H2;

(iii) Boxes: 4C1, 4C2, 4D, 4F, 4G, 4H1, 4H2, 4A, 4B; or

(iv) Composite packagings with a plastic inner receptacle: 6HA1, 6HA2, 6HB1, 6HB2, 6HC, 6HD1, 6HD2, 6HG1, 6HG2, 6HH1, 6HH2.

(2) Metal packaging (including inner packagings of combination packagings and outer packagings of combination or composite packagings) are used only for packing methods OP7 and OP8.

(3) In combination packagings, glass receptacles are used only as inner packagings with a maximum content of 0.5 kg for solids or 0.5 L for liquids.

(4) The maximum quantity per packaging or package for Packing Methods OP1-OP8 must be as follows:
