
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.225 Packaging requirements and other provisions for organic peroxides.
######## IBCs.

(f)IBCs are authorized subject to the conditions and limitations of this section if the IBC type is authorized according to paragraph (e) of this section, as applicable, and the IBC conforms to the requirements in subpart O of part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group II performance level. Type F organic peroxides or self-reactive substances are not authorized for transportation in IBCs other than those specified, unless approved by the Associate Administrator.

(1) IBCs shall be provided with a device to allow venting during transportation. The inlet to the pressure relief device shall be sited in the vapor space of the IBC under maximum filling conditions during transportation.

(2) To prevent explosive rupture of metal IBCs or composite IBCs with a complete metal casing, the emergency-relief devices shall be designed to vent all the decomposition products and vapors evolved during self-accelerating decomposition or during a period of not less than one hour of complete fire-engulfment as calculated by the formula in paragraph (h)(3)(v) of this section. The control and emergency temperatures specified in the Organic Peroxide IBC Table are based on a non-insulated IBC.
