
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.225 Packaging requirements and other provisions for organic peroxides.
######## Portable tanks.

(3)The following requirements apply to portable tanks intended for the transport of organic peroxides or self-reactive substances. DOT 51, 57, IM 101 portable tanks, and UN portable tanks that conform to the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section, are authorized. Type F organic peroxide or self-reactive substance formulations other than those indicated in the Organic Peroxide Portable Tank Table may be transported in portable tanks if approved by the Associate Administrator. The following conditions also apply:

(i) The portable tank must be designed for a test pressure of at least 0.4 MPa (4 bar).

(ii) The portable tank must be fitted with temperature-sensing devices.

(iii) The portable tank must be fitted with pressure relief devices and emergency-relief devices. Vacuum-relief devices may also be used. Pressure relief devices must operate at pressures determined according to both the properties of the hazardous material and the construction characteristics of the portable tank. Fusible elements are not allowed in the shell.

(iv) The pressure relief devices must consist of reclosing devices fitted to prevent significant build-up within the portable tank of the decomposition products and vapors released at a temperature of 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F). The capacity and start-to-discharge pressure of the relief devices must be in accordance with the applicable requirements of this subchapter specified for the portable tank. The pressure relief devices must not allow liquid to escape in the event the portable tank is overturned in a loaded condition.

(v)(A) The emergency-relief devices may be of the reclosing or frangible types, or a combination of the two, designed to vent all the decomposition products and vapors evolved during a period of not less than one hour of complete fire engulfment as calculated by the following formula:

(B) Insulation factor (F) in the formula in paragraph (h)(3)(v)(A) of this section equals 1 for non-insulated vessels and for insulated vessels F is calculated using the following formula:

(vi) The start-to-discharge pressure of emergency-relief devices must be higher than that specified for the pressure relief devices in paragraph (h)(3)(iv) of this section. The emergency-relief devices must be sized and designed in such a way that the maximum pressure in the shell never exceeds the test pressure of the portable tank.

(vii) For insulated portable tanks, the capacity and setting of emergency-relief devices must be determined assuming a loss of insulation from 1% of the surface area.

(viii) Vacuum-relief devices and reclosing devices on portable tanks used for flammable hazardous materials must be provided with flame arresters. Any reduction of the relief capacity caused by the flame arrester must be taken into account and the appropriate relief capacity must be provided.

(ix) Service equipment such as devices and external piping must be designed and constructed so that no hazardous material remains in them after filling the portable tank.

(x) Portable tanks may be either insulated or protected by a sun-shield. If the SADT of the hazardous material in the portable tank is 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) or less, the portable tank must be completely insulated. The outer surface must be finished in white or bright metal.

(xi) The degree of filling must not exceed 90% at 15 &#xB0;C (59 &#xB0;F).

(xii) DOT 57 metal portable tanks are authorized only for those materials or mixtures of two or more materials that are provided with a reference to Note 9 in Column 8 of the Organic Peroxide Table, found in paragraph (c) of this section. DOT 57 portable tanks must conform to the venting requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. These portable tanks are not subject to any other requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.

(4) For tertiary butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP), each tank car, cargo tank or portable tank must contain 7.6 cm (3.0 inches) low density polyethylene (PE) saddles having a melt index of at least 0.2 grams per 10 minutes (for example see, ASTM D1238, condition E) as part of the lading, with a ratio of PE to TBHP over a range of 0.008 to 0.012 by mass. Alternatively, plastic or metal containers equipped with fusible plugs having a melting point between 69 &#xB0;C (156 &#xB0;F) and 71 &#xB0;C (160 &#xB0;F) and filled with a sufficient quantity of water to dilute the TBHP to 65% or less by mass may be used. The PE saddles must be visually inspected after each trip and, at a minimum, once every 12 months, and replaced when discoloration, fracture, severe deformation, or other indication of change is noted.
