
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### § 173.226 Materials poisonous by inhalation, Division 6.1, Packing Group I, Hazard Zone A.

Division 6.1, Packing Group I, Zone A poisonous by inhalation (see § 173.133) must be packed in non-bulk packagings in accordance with the following paragraphs:

(a) In seamless specification or UN cylinders conforming to the requirements of § 173.40.

(b) In 1A1, 1B1, 1H1, 1N1, or 6HA1 drums further packed in a 1A2 or 1H2 drum. Both inner and outer drums must conform to the performance test requirements of subpart M of part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group I performance level. The outer drums may be tested either as a package intended to contain inner packagings (combination package) or as a single packaging intended to contain solids or liquids at a mass corresponding to the mass of the assembled packaging system. All outer drums, even those tested to contain inner packaging or as single packagings for solids, must withstand a hydrostatic test pressure of 100 kPa (15 psig). The outer drum must have a minimum thickness of 1.35 mm (0.053 inch) for a 1A2 outer drum or 6.3 mm (0.248 inch) for a 1H2 outer drum. In addition, the inner drum must-

(1) Be capable of satisfactorily withstanding the hydrostatic pressure test in § 178.605 of this subchapter at a test pressure of 300 kPa (45 psig);

(2) Satisfactorily withstand the leakproofness test in § 178.604 of this subchapter using an internal air pressure of at least twice the vapor pressure at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) of the material to be packaged;

(3) Have screw-type closures that are-

(i) Closed and tightened to a torque prescribed by the closure manufacturer, using a properly calibrated device that is capable of measuring torque;

(ii) Physically held in place by any means capable of preventing back-off or loosening of the closure by impact or vibration during transportation; and

(iii) Provided with a cap seal that is properly applied in accordance with the cap seal manufacturer's recommendations and is capable of withstanding an internal pressure of at least 100 kPa (15 psig).

(4) Have a minimum thickness as follows:

(i) For a 1A1 or 1N1 drum, 1.3 mm (0.051 inch);

(ii) For a 1B1 drum, 3.9 mm (0.154 inch);

(iii) For a 1H1 drum, 3.16 mm (0.124 inch); and

(iv) For a 6HA1 drum, the plastic inner container shall be 1.58 mm (0.0622 inch) and the outer steel drum shall be 0.96 mm (0.0378 inch).

(5) Be isolated from the outer drum by a shock-mitigating, non-reactive material, which completely surrounds the inner packaging on all sides.

(c) In combination packagings, consisting of an inner packaging system and an outer packaging, as follows:

(1) Outer packagings:

(2) Inner packaging system. The inner packaging system consists of two packagings:

(i) an impact-resistant receptacle of glass, earthenware, plastic or metal securely cushioned with a non-reactive, absorbent material, and

(A) Capacity of each inner receptacle may not exceed 4 L (1 gallon).

(B) An inner receptacle that has a closure must have a closure which is physically held in place by any means capable of preventing back-off or loosening of the closure by impact or vibration during transportation.

(ii) Packed within a leak-tight packaging of metal or plastic.

(iii) This combination packaging in turn is packed within the outer packaging.

(3) Additional requirements:

(i) The total amount of liquid contained in the outer packaging must not exceed 16 L (4 gallons).

(ii) The inner packaging system must conform to the performance test requirements of subpart M of part 178 of this subchapter, at the Packaging Group I performance level when subjected to the following tests:

(A) § 178.603-Drop Test

(B) § 178.604-Leakproofness Test

(C) § 178.605-Hydrostatic Pressure Test

(iii) The inner packaging system must meet the above tests without the benefit of the outer packaging.

(iv) The leakproofness and hydrostatic pressure test may be conducted on either the inner receptacle or the outer packaging of the inner packaging system.

(v) The outer package must conform to the performance test requirements of subpart M of part 178 of this subchapter, at the Packaging Group I performance level as applicable for the type of package being used.

(d) If approved by the Associate Administrator, 1A1, 1B1, 1H1, 1N1, 6HA1 or 6HH1 drums described in paragraph (b) of this section may be used without being further packed in a 1A2 or 1H2 drum if the shipper loads the material, palletizes the drums, blocks and braces the drums within the transport vehicle and seals the transport vehicle used. Drums may not be stacked (double decked) within the transport vehicle. Shipments must be from one origin to one destination only without any intermediate pickup or delivery.

(e) Prior to reuse, all authorized inner drums must be leakproofness tested and marked in accordance with § 173.28 using a minimum test pressure as indicated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(f) Liquid hazardous materials in Division 6.1, PG I, Hazard Zone A, are excepted from the segregation requirements of §§ 174.81, 176.83, and 177.848(d) of this subchapter when packaged as follows:
