
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### § 173.227 Materials poisonous by inhalation, Division 6.1, Packing Group I, Hazard Zone B.

(a) In packagings as authorized in § 173.226 and seamless and welded specification cylinders or UN seamless cylinders conforming to the requirements of § 173.40.

(b) 1A1, 1B1, 1H1, 1N1, 6HA1, or 6HH1 drums further packed in a 1A2 or 1H2 drum. Both the inner and outer drums must conform to the performance test requirements of subpart M of part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group I performance level. Both the inner and outer drums must conform to the performance test requirements of subpart M of part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group I performance level. The outer drums may be tested either as a package intended to contain inner packagings (combination package) or as a single packaging intended to contain solids or liquids at a mass corresponding to the mass of the assembled packaging system. The outer drum must have a minimum thickness of 1.35 mm (0.053 inches) for a 1A2 outer drum or 6.30 mm (0.248 inches) for a 1H2 outer drum. Outer 1A2 and 1H2 drums must withstand a hydrostatic test pressure of 100 kPa (15 psig). Capacity of the inner drum may not exceed 220 liters. In addition, the inner drum must conform to all of the following requirements:

(1) Satisfactorily withstand the leakproofness test in § 178.604 of this subchapter using an internal air pressure of at least two times the vapor pressure at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) of the material to be packaged;

(2) Have screw closures that are-

(i) Closed and tightened to a torque prescribed by the closure manufacturer, using a properly calibrated device that is capable of measuring torque;

(ii) Physically held in place by any means capable of preventing back-off or loosening of the closure by impact or vibration during transportation; and

(iii) Provided with a cap seal that is properly applied in accordance with the cap seal manufacturer's recommendations and is capable of withstanding an internal pressure of at least 100 kPa (15 psig).

(3) Have a minimum thickness as follows:

(i) For a 1A1 drum, 0.69 mm (0.027 inch);

(ii) For a 1B1 drum, 2.79 mm (0.110 inch);

(iii) For a 1H1 drum, 1.14 mm (0.045 inch); or

(iv) For a 6HA1 drum, the plastic inner container shall be 1.58 mm (0.0625 inch), the outer steel drum shall be 0.70 mm (0.027 inch).

(4) Be isolated from the outer drum by a shock-mitigating, non-reactive material which completely surrounds the inner packaging on all sides.

(5) Prior to reuse, all authorized inner drums must be leakproofness tested and marked in accordance with § 173.28 using a minimum test pressure as indicated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(c) 1A1, 1B1, 1H1, 1N1, 6HA1 or 6HH1 drums described in paragraph (b) of this section may be used without being further packed in a 1A2 or 1H2 drum if the shipper loads the material, blocks and braces the drums within the transport vehicle and seals the transport vehicle used. Drums may not be stacked (double decked) within the transport vehicle. Shipments must be from one origin to one destination only without any intermediate pickup or delivery.
