
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.230 Fuel cell cartridges containing hazardous material.
######## Requirements for Fuel Cell Cartridges.

(a)Fuel cell cartridges, including when contained in or packed with equipment, must be designed and constructed to prevent fuel leakage under normal conditions of transportation. Fuel cell cartridge design types using liquids as fuels must pass an internal pressure test at a gauge pressure of 100 kPa (15 psig) without leakage. Except for fuel cell cartridges containing hydrogen in metal hydride which must be in conformance with paragraph (d) of this section, each fuel cell cartridge design type including when contained in or packed with equipment, must pass a 1.2 meter (3.9 feet) drop test onto an unyielding surface in the orientation most likely to result in the failure of the containment system with no loss of contents. Fuel cell cartridges installed in or integral to a fuel cell system are regarded as contained in equipment. Fuel cell cartridges containing a Division 2.1, Division 4.3 or Class 8 material must meet the following additional requirements.

(b) A fuel cell cartridge designed to contain a Division 4.3 or a Class 8 material may contain an activator provided it is fitted with two independent means of preventing unintended mixing with the fuel during transport.

(c) Each fuel cell cartridge designed to contain a liquefied flammable gas must:

(1) Be capable of withstanding, without leakage or bursting, a pressure of at least two times the equilibrium pressure of the contents at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F);

(2) Contain no more than 200 mL of liquefied flammable gas with a vapor pressure not exceeding 1,000 kPa (150 psig) at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F); and

(3) Pass the hot water bath test prescribed in accordance with ยง 173.306(a)(3)(v).

(d) Each fuel cell cartridge designed to contain hydrogen in a metal hydride must conform to the following:

(1) Each fuel cell cartridge must have a water capacity less than or equal to 120 mL (4 fluid ounces).

(2) Each fuel cell cartridge must be a design type that has been subjected, without leakage or bursting, a pressure of at least two times the design pressure of the cartridge at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) or 200 kPa (30 psig) more than the design pressure of the cartridge at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F), whichever is greater. The pressure at which the test is conducted is referred to as the "minimum shell burst pressure." The pressure within the fuel cell cartridge must not exceed 5 MPa (725 psig) at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F).

(3) Each fuel cell cartridge must be filled in accordance with the procedure provided by the manufacturer. The manufacturer must provide the following information with each fuel cell cartridge:

(i) Inspection procedures to be carried out before initial filling and before refilling of the fuel cell cartridge;

(ii) Safety precautions and potential hazards to be aware of;

(iii) A method of determining when the rated capacity has been achieved;

(iv) Minimum and maximum pressure range;

(v) Minimum and maximum temperature range; and

(vi) Any other requirements to be met for initial filling and refilling including the type of equipment to be used.

(4) Each fuel cell cartridge must be permanently marked with the following information:

(i) The rated charging pressure in megapascals (MPa);

(ii) The manufacturer's serial number of the fuel cell cartridges or unique identification number; and

(iii) The expiration date based on the maximum service life (yyyy/mm).
