
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Non-bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.230 Fuel cell cartridges containing hazardous material.
######## Production leak test.

(6)Each fuel cell cartridge must be tested for leaks at 15 &#xB0;C +/-5 &#xB0;C (59 &#xB0;F +/-9 &#xB0;F) while pressurized to its rated charging pressure. There must be no leakage. Leakage must be determined using a soap bubble solution or other equivalent means on all possible leak locations.

(e) The following packagings are authorized provided the general packaging requirements subpart B of part 173 of this subchapter are met:

(1) For fuel cell cartridges, rigid packagings conforming to the requirements of part 178 of this subchapter at the packing group II performance level; and

(2) Strong outer packagings for fuel cell cartridges contained in equipment or packed with equipment. Large equipment containing fuel cell cartridges may be transported unpackaged if the equipment provides an equivalent level of protection.

(i) Fuel cell cartridges packed with equipment must be packed with cushioning material or divider(s) or inner packagings so that the fuel cell cartridges are protected against damage that may be caused by the shifting or placement of the equipment and cartridges within the packaging.

(ii) For fuel cell cartridges contained in equipment, the entire fuel cell system must be protected against short circuits and unintentional activation. The equipment must be securely cushioned in the outer packaging.

(f) For transportation by aircraft, the following additional provisions apply:

(1) The package must comply with the applicable provisions of ยง 173.27 of this subchapter;

(2) For fuel cell cartridges contained in equipment, fuel cell systems must not charge batteries during transport;

(3) For transportation aboard passenger aircraft, for fuel cell cartridges contained in equipment, each fuel cell system and fuel cell cartridge must conform to IEC 62282-6-100 and IEC 62282-6-100 Amend. 1 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter) or a standard approved by the Associate Administrator;

(4) When packed with equipment, fuel cell cartridges must be packed in an intermediate packaging along with the equipment they are capable of powering, and the intermediate packagings packed in a strong outer packaging. The maximum number of fuel cell cartridges in the intermediate packaging may not be more than the number required to power the equipment, plus two spares;

(5) Large robust articles containing fuel cells may be transported unpackaged when approved by the Associate Administrator; and

(6) The mass of a fuel cell cartridge containing a Division 4.3 or Class 8 materials must be not more than 1 kg (2.2 lbs).

(7) Fuel cell cartridges intended for transportation in carry-on baggage on board passenger aircraft must comply with paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) in this section and the applicable provisions prescribed in ยง 175.10 of this subchapter.
