
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart F - Bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.244 Bulk packaging for certain pyrophoric liquids (Division 4.2), dangerous when wet (Division 4.3) materials, and poisonous liquids with inhalation hazards (Division 6.1).
######## Rail cars:

(a)(1) Class DOT 105, 109, 112, 114, or 120 fusion-welded tank car tanks; and Class 106 or 110 multi-unit tank car tanks. For tank car tanks built prior to March 16, 2009, the following conditions apply:

(i) Division 6.1 Hazard Zone A materials must be transported in tank cars having a test pressure of 34.47 Bar (500 psig) or greater and conform to Classes 105J, 106 or 110.

(ii) Division 6.1 Hazard Zone B materials must be transported in tank cars having a test pressure of 20.68 Bar (300 psig) or greater and conform to Classes 105S, 106, 110, 112J, 114J or 120S.

(iii) Hydrogen fluoride, anhydrous must be transported in tank cars having a test pressure of 20.68 Bar (300 psig) or greater and conform to Classes 105, 112, 114 or 120.

(2) For materials poisonous by inhalation, until December 31, 2027, single unit tank car tanks built prior to March 16, 2009, and approved by the Tank Car Committee for transportation of the specified material. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, tank cars built on or after March 16, 2009, used for the transportation of the PIH materials listed below, must meet the applicable authorized tank car specification listed in the following table:

(3) As an alternative to the authorized tank car specification listed in the table in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a car of the same authorized tank car specification but of the next lower test pressure, as prescribed in column 5 of the table at ยง 179.101-1 of this subchapter, may be used provided that both of the following conditions are met:

(i) The difference between the alternative and the required minimum plate thicknesses, based on the calculation prescribed in ยง 179.100-6 of this subchapter, must be added to the alternative tank car jacket and head shield. When the jacket and head shield are made from steel with a minimum tensile strength from 70,000 p.s.i. to 80,000 p.s.i., but the required minimum plate thickness calculation is based on steel with a minimum tensile strength of 81,000 p.s.i., the thickness to be added to the jacket and head shield must be increased by a factor of 1.157. Forming allowances for heads are not required to be considered when calculating thickness differences.

(ii) The tank car jacket and head shield are manufactured from carbon steel plate as prescribed in ยง 179.100-7(a) of this subchapter.
