
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart F - Bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### ยง 173.247 Bulk packaging for certain elevated temperature materials.
######## Pressure and vacuum control equipment.

(1)When pressure or vacuum control equipment is required on a packaging authorized in this section, such equipment must be of a self-reclosing design, must prevent package rupture or collapse due to pressure, must prevent significant release of lading due to packaging overturn or splashing or surging during normal transport conditions, and may be external to the packaging.

(i) Pressure control equipment is not required if pressure in the packaging would increase less than 10 percent as a result of heating the lading from the lowest design operating temperature to a temperature likely to be encountered if the packaging were engulfed in a fire. When pressure control equipment is required, it must prevent rupture of the packaging from heating, including fire engulfment.

(ii) Vacuum control equipment is not required if the packaging is designed to withstand an external pressure of 100 kPa (14.5 psig) or if pressure in the packaging would decrease less than 10 percent as a result of the lading cooling from the highest design operating temperature to the lowest temperature incurred in transport. When vacuum control equipment is required, it must prevent collapse of the packaging from a cooling-induced pressure differential.

(iii) When the regulations require a reclosing pressure relief device, the lading must not render the devices inoperable (i.e. from clogging, freezing, or fouling). If the lading affects the proper operation of the device, the packaging must have:

(A) A safety relief device incorporating a frangible disc or a permanent opening, each having a maximum effective area of 22 cm(3.4 in.), for transportation by highway;

(B) For transportation of asphalt by highway, a safety relief device incorporating a frangible disc or a permanent opening, each having a maximum effective area of 48 cm(7.4 in); or

(C) For transportation by rail, a non-reclosing pressure relief device incorporating a rupture disc conforming to the requirements of ยง 179.15 of this subchapter.

(iv) Reclosing pressure relief devices, rupture discs or permanent openings must not allow the release of lading during normal transportation conditions (i.e., due to splashing or surging).
