
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart F - Bulk Packaging for Hazardous Materials Other Than Class 1 and Class 7
####### § 173.249 Bromine.

When § 172.101 of this subchapter specifies that a hazardous material be packaged under this section, only the following bulk packagings are authorized, subject to the requirements of subparts A and B of part 173 of this subchapter and the special provisions specified in column 7 of the § 172.101 table.

(a) Class DOT 105A300W or 105A500W tank cars. Class 105A500W tank cars may be equipped with manway cover plates, pressure relief valves, vent valves, and loading/unloading valves that are required on Class 105A-300W tank cars. Tank cars must conform to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.

(b) Specification MC 310, MC 311, MC 312 or DOT 412 cargo tank motor vehicles conforming with paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. Except when transported as a residue, the total quantity in one tank may not be less than 88 percent or more than 96 percent of the volume of the tank. Cargo tanks in bromine service built prior to August 31, 1991, may continue in service under the requirements contained in § 173.252(a)(4) of this part in effect on September 30, 1991.

(c) UN portable tanks conforming to tank code T22 (see § 172.102 of this subchapter) or specification IM 101 portable tanks conforming with paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. Except when transported as a residue, the total quantity in one tank may not be less than 88% nor more than 92% of the volume of the tank.

(d) The tank must be made from nickel-clad or lead-lined steel plate. Nickel cladding or lead lining must be on the inside of the tank. Nickel cladding must comprise at least 20 percent of the required minimum total thickness. Nickel cladding must conform to ASTM B 162 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Lead lining must be at least 4.763 mm (0.188 inch) thick. All tank equipment and appurtenances in contact with the lading must be lined or made from metal not subject to deterioration by contact with lading.

(e) Maximum filling density is 300 percent of the tank's water capacity. Minimum filling density is 287 percent of the tank's water capacity. Maximum water capacity is 9,253 kg (20,400 pounds) for DOT 105A300W tank cars. Maximum quantity of lading in DOT 105A300W tank cars is 27,216 kg (60,000 pounds). Maximum water capacity is 16,964 kg (37,400 pounds) for DOT 105A500W tank cars and DOT 105A500W tank cars equipped as described in paragraph (a) of this section. Maximum quantity of lading in DOT 105A500W tank cars is 49,895 kg (110,000 pounds).

(f) Tank shell and head thickness for cargo tank motor vehicles and portable tanks must be at least 9.5 mm (0.375 inch) excluding lead lining.

(g) Except as provided in § 173.244(a)(3), tank cars built on or after March 16, 2009 and used for the transportation of bromine must meet the applicable authorized tank car specification listed in the table in § 173.244(a)(2).
