
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.301 General requirements for shipment of compressed gases and other hazardous materials in cylinders, UN pressure receptacles and spherical pressure vessels.
######## Pressure relief device systems.

(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(5) through (f)(7) and (j) of this section, and § 171.23(a) of this subchapter, a cylinder filled with a gas and offered for transportation must be equipped with one or more pressure relief devices sized and selected as to type, location, and quantity, and tested in accordance with CGA S-1.1 (compliance with paragraph 9.1.1 is not required) and CGA Pamphlet S-7 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). The pressure relief device must be capable of preventing rupture of the normally filled cylinder when subjected to a fire test conducted in accordance with CGA C-14 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), or, in the case of an acetylene cylinder, CGA C-12 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(2) A pressure relief device, when installed, must be in communication with the vapor space of a cylinder containing a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material. This requirement does not apply to DOT Specification 39 cylinders of 1.2L (75 cubic inches) or less in volume filled with a Liquefied petroleum gas, Methyl acetylene and Propadiene mixtures, stabilized, Propylene, Propane or Butane.

(3) For a specification 3, 3A, 3AA, 3AL, 3AX, 3AAX, 3B, 3BN, or 3T cylinder filled with gases in other than Division 2.2 (except oxygen and oxidizing gases transported by aircraft, see §§ 173.302(f) and 173.304(f)), the burst pressure of a CG-1, CG-4, or CG-5 pressure relief device must be at test pressure with a tolerance of plus zero to minus 10 percent. An additional 5 percent tolerance is allowed when a combined rupture disk is placed inside a holder. This requirement does not apply if a CG-2, CG-3, or CG-9 thermally activated relief device or a CG-7 reclosing pressure valve is used on the cylinder.

(4)(i) A pressure relief device is required on a DOT 39 cylinder regardless of cylinder size or filled pressure.

(ii) A DOT 39 cylinder used for liquefied Division 2.1 materials must be equipped with a metal pressure relief device.

(iii) Fusible pressure relief devices are not authorized on a DOT 39 cylinder containing a liquefied gas.

(iv) A pressure relief device for oxidizing gases transported by air in a DOT 39 cylinder must meet the requirements of § 173.302(f)(2)(iii) of this subpart for permanent gases and § 173.304(f)(2)(iii) for liquefied compressed gases.

(5) A pressure relief device is not required on-

(i) A cylinder 305 mm (12 inches) or less in length, exclusive of neck, and 114 mm (4.5 inches) or less in outside diameter, except when the cylinder is filled with a liquefied gas for which this part requires a service pressure of 1800 psig or higher or a nonliquefied gas to a pressure of 1800 psig or higher at 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F);

(ii) A cylinder with a water capacity of less than 454 kg (1000 lbs.) filled with a nonliquefied gas to a pressure of 300 psig or less at 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F), except for a DOT 39 cylinder or a cylinder used for acetylene in solution;

(iii) A cylinder containing a Class 3 or a Class 8 material without pressurization, unless otherwise specified for the hazardous material; or

(iv) A UN pressure receptacle transported in accordance with paragraph (k) or (l) of this section.

(6) A pressure relief device is prohibited on a cylinder filled with a Division 2.3 or 6.1 material in Hazard Zone A.

(7) A pressure relief device is not required on a DOT Specification 3E cylinder measuring up to 50mm (2 inches) in diameter by 305mm (12 inches) in length for the following specified gases and maximum weight limits:

(i) Carbon Dioxide 0.24L (8 oz.)

(ii) Ethane 0.12L (4 oz.)

(iii) Ethylene 0.12L (4 oz.)

(iv) Hydrogen Chloride, anhydrous 0.24L (8 oz.)

(v) Monochlorotrifluoromethane 0.35L (12 oz.)

(vi) Nitrous oxide, 0.24L (8 oz.)

(vii) Vinyl fluoride, stabilized 0.24L (8 oz.)
