
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.301 General requirements for shipment of compressed gases and other hazardous materials in cylinders, UN pressure receptacles and spherical pressure vessels.
######## Cylinder valve protection.

(h)UN pressure receptacles must meet the valve protection requirements in ยง 173.301b(c). A DOT specification cylinder used to transport a hazardous material must meet the requirements specified in this paragraph (h).

(1) The following specification cylinders are not subject to the cylinder valve protection requirements in this paragraph (h):

(i) A cylinder containing only a Division 2.2 material without a Division 5.1 subsidiary hazard;

(ii) A cylinder containing a Class 8 liquid corrosive only to metal;

(iii) A cylinder with a water capacity of 4.8 liters (293 in) or less containing oxygen, compressed;

(iv) A cylinder containing oxygen, refrigerated liquid (cryogenic liquid);

(v) A Medical E cylinder with a water capacity of 4.9 liters (300 in) or less;

(vi) A fire extinguisher; or

(vii) A "B" style cylinder with a capacity of 40 ft(1.13 m) or an "MC" style cylinder with a capacity of 10 ft(0.28m) containing acetylene.

(2) For cylinders manufactured before October 1, 2007, a cylinder must have its valves protected by one of the following methods:

(i) By equipping the cylinder with securely attached metal or plastic caps of sufficient strength to protect valves from damage during transportation;

(ii) By boxing or crating the cylinders so as to protect valves from damage during transportation;

(iii) By constructing the cylinder so that the valve is recessed into the cylinder or otherwise protected to the extent that it will not be subjected to a blow when the container is dropped onto a flat surface; or

(iv) By loading the cylinders in an upright position and securely bracing the cylinders in rail cars or motor vehicles, when loaded by the consignor and unloaded by the consignee.

(3) For cylinders manufactured on or after October 1, 2007, each cylinder valve assembly must be of sufficient strength or protected such that no leakage occurs when a cylinder with the valve installed is dropped 1.8 m (6 ft.) or more onto a non-yielding surface, such as concrete or steel, impacting the valve assembly or protection device at an orientation most likely to cause damage. The cylinder valve assembly protection may be provided by any method meeting the performance requirement in this paragraph (h)(3). Examples include:

(i) Equipping the cylinder with a securely attached metal cap.

(ii) Packaging the cylinder in a box, crate, or other strong outer packaging conforming to the requirements of ยง 173.25.

(iii) Constructing the cylinder such that the valve is recessed into the cylinder or otherwise protected.
