
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.301 General requirements for shipment of compressed gases and other hazardous materials in cylinders, UN pressure receptacles and spherical pressure vessels.
######## Cylinders mounted in motor vehicles or in frames.

(i)(1) MEGCs must conform to the requirements in ยง 173.312. DOT specification cylinders mounted on motor vehicles or in frames must conform to the requirements specified in this paragraph (i).

(2) Seamless DOT specification cylinders longer than 2 m (6.5 feet) are authorized for transportation only when horizontally mounted on a motor vehicle or in an ISO framework or other framework of equivalent structural integrity in accordance with CGA TB-25 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). The pressure relief device must be arranged to discharge unobstructed to the open air. In addition, for Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material, the pressure relief devices must be arranged to discharge upward to prevent any escaping gas from contacting personnel or any adjacent cylinders.

(3) Cylinders may not be transported by rail in container on freight car (COFC) or trailer on flat car (TOFC) service except under conditions approved by the Associate Administrator for Safety, Federal Railroad Administration.
