
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.38 Delegations to the Assistant Secretary for Administration.
####### Security.

(e)(1) Serves as the agency representative appointed by the Secretary of Transportation to participate on the Interagency Security Committee in accordance with Executive Order 12977, to establish policies for the security in and protection of Federal facilities.

(2) Represents the department on the White House Communications Agency Principal Communications Working Group and the Department of State Overseas Security Policy Board.

(3) Conducts an internal security management program for the Department of Transportation with authority to take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve security actions with respect to such authorities related to personnel security, physical security, technical security, and classified and sensitive information management.

(4) Issues identification media as directed by Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12, "Policy for Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors" and other identification media (including credentials, passports and visas) by direction of the Secretary.

(5) Manages the Department's classified information program as directed by Executive Order 13526 ("Classified National Security Information").

(6) Takes certain classified actions on behalf of the Department in connection with technical counter-surveillance programs as required by Executive Order 13526 ("Classified National Security Information").

(7) In conjunction with the Office of Security, Intelligence and Emergency Response, and the Office of the General Counsel, carries out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 40119(b), as implemented by 49 CFR part 15, related to the protection of information designated as Sensitive Security Information.

(8) Ensure Department-wide compliance with Executive Orders 12968 as amended, 13467, 13488, 13526, 13556, and related regulations and issuances.
