
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.302 Filling of cylinders with nonliquefied (permanent) compressed gases or adsorbed gases.
######## Aluminum cylinders in oxygen service.

(b)Each aluminum cylinder filled with oxygen must meet all of the following conditions:

(1) Metallic portions of a valve that may come into contact with the oxygen in the cylinder must be constructed of brass or stainless steel.

(2) Except for UN cylinders, each cylinder opening must be configured with straight threads only.

(3) Each UN pressure receptacle must be cleaned in accordance with the requirements of ISO 11621 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 or this subchapter). Each DOT cylinder must be cleaned in accordance with the requirements of GSA Federal Specification RR-C-901D, paragraphs 3.3.1 and 3.3.2 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). Cleaning agents equivalent to those specified in Federal Specification RR-C-901D may be used provided they do not react with oxygen. One cylinder selected at random from a group of 200 or fewer and cleaned at the same time must be tested for oil contamination in accordance with Federal Specification RR-C-901D, paragraph 4.3.2, and meet the specified standard of cleanliness.

(4) The pressure in each cylinder may not exceed 3000 psig at 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 173.24(b)(1) and paragraph (f) of this section, an authorized cylinder containing oxygen continuously fed to tanks containing live fish may be offered for transportation and transported.

(d) Shipment of Division 2.1 materials in aluminum cylinders is authorized for transportation only by motor vehicle, rail car, or cargo-only aircraft.
