
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.302a Additional requirements for shipment of nonliquefied (permanent) compressed gases in specification cylinders.
######## Detailed filling requirements.

(a)Nonliquefied compressed gases (except gas in solution) for which filling requirements are not specifically prescribed in § 173.304a must be shipped subject to the requirements in this section and §§ 173.301, 173.301a, 173.302, and 173.305 in specification cylinders, as follows:

(1) DOT 3, 3A, 3AA, 3AL, 3B, 3E, 4B, 4BA, 4BW, and 4E cylinders.

(2) DOT 3HT cylinders. These cylinders are authorized for aircraft use only and only for nonflammable gases. They have a maximum service life of 24 years from the date of manufacture. The cylinders must be equipped with frangible disc type pressure relief devices that meet the requirements of § 173.301(f). Each frangible disc must have a rated bursting pressure not exceeding 90 percent of the minimum required test pressure of the cylinder. Discs with fusible metal backing are not permitted. Specification 3HT cylinders may be offered for transportation only when packaged in accordance with § 173.301(a)(9).

(3) DOT 39 cylinders. When the cylinder is filled with a Division 2.1 flammable gas, the internal volume of the cylinder may not exceed 1.23 L (75 in). For chemical under pressure (see § 172.102 of this subchapter (special provision 362)), the internal volume may not exceed the size limits of the specification as provided in § 178.65(a)(1) of this subchapter.

(4) DOT 3AX, 3AAX, and 3T cylinders are authorized for Division 2.1 and 2.2 materials and for carbon monoxide. DOT 3T cylinders are not authorized for hydrogen. When used in methane service, the methane must be a nonliquefied gas with a minimum purity of 98.0 percent methane and commercially free of corroding components.

(5) Aluminum cylinders manufactured in conformance with specifications DOT 39, 3AL and 4E are authorized for oxygen only under the conditions specified in § 173.302(b).

(6) DOT 4E cylinders- DOT 4E cylinders with a maximum capacity of 43L (11 gal) must have a minimum rating of 240 psig and be filled to no more than 200 psig at 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F).
