
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.302a Additional requirements for shipment of nonliquefied (permanent) compressed gases in specification cylinders.
######## Special filling limits for DOT 3A, 3AX, 3AA, and 3AAX cylinders containing Division 2.1 gases.

(c)Except for transportation by aircraft, a DOT specification 3A, 3AX, 3AA, and 3AAX cylinder may be filled with hydrogen and mixtures of hydrogen with helium, argon or nitrogen, to a pressure 10% in excess of its marked service pressure subject to the following conditions:

(1) The cylinder must conform to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section;

(2) The cylinder was manufactured after December 31, 1945;

(3) DOT specification 3A and 3AX cylinders are limited to those having an intermediate manganese composition.

(i) Cylinders manufactured with intermediate manganese steel must have been normalized, not quench and tempered. Quench and temper treatment of intermediate steel is not authorized.

(ii) Cylinders manufactured with chrome moly steel must have been quenched and tempered, not normalized. Use of normalized chrome moly steel cylinders is not permitted.

(4) Cylinders must be equipped with pressure relief devices as follows:

(i) Cylinders less than 1.7 m (65 inches) in length must be equipped with fusible metal backed frangible disc devices;

(ii) Cylinders 1.7 m (65 inches) or greater in length and 24.5 cm (9.63 inches) in diameter or larger must be equipped with fusible metal backed frangible disc devices or frangible disc devices, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section. Cylinders with a diameter of 0.56 m (22 inches) or larger must be equipped with frangible disc devices except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.

(iii) Cylinders greater than 3.66 m (144 inches) in length that are horizontally mounted on a motor vehicle, in an ISO framework, or other framework of equivalent structural integrity are not required to be equipped with pressure relief devices. If such devices are installed, they must be selected in accordance with ยง 173.301(f).
