
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.304 Filling of cylinders with liquefied compressed gases.
######## Engine starting fluid.

(e)Engine starting fluid containing a flammable compressed gas or gases must be shipped in a cylinder as prescribed in ยง 173.304a or as follows:

(1) Inside non-refillable metal containers having a capacity not greater than 500 mL (32 in). The containers must be packaged in strong, tight outer packagings. The pressure in the container may not exceed 145 psia at 54 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F). If the pressure exceeds 145 psia at 54 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F), a DOT 2P container must be used. In either case, the metal container must be capable of withstanding, without bursting, a pressure of 1.5 times the pressure of the contents at 54 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F). The liquid content of the material and gas may not completely fill the container at 54 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F). Each container filled for shipment must have been heated until its contents reach a minimum temperature of 54 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F), without evidence of leakage, distortion, or other defect. Each outside shipping container must be plainly marked, "INSIDE CONTAINERS COMPLY WITH PRESCRIBED SPECIFICATIONS".

(2) [Reserved]
