
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.304a Additional requirements for shipment of liquefied compressed gases in specification cylinders.
######## Verification of content.

(4)A cylinder with a water capacity of 90.72 kg (200 lb) or more and for use with a liquefied petroleum gas with a specific gravity of 0.504 or greater at 16 &#xB0;C (60 &#xB0;F) may have the quantity of its contents determined by using a fixed length dip tube gauging device. The length of the dip tube must be such that when a liquefied petroleum gas, with a specific volume of 0.03051 cu. ft./lb. at a temperature of 40 &#xB0;F, is filled into the container, the liquid just reaches the bottom of the tube. The weight of this liquid may not exceed 42 percent of the water capacity of the container, which must be stamped on the cylinder. The length of the dip tube, expressed in inches carried out to one decimal place and prefixed with the letters "DT", must be stamped on the container and on the exterior of removable type dip tube. For the purpose of this requirement, the marked length must be expressed as the distance measured along the axis of a straight tube from the top of the boss through which the tube is inserted to the proper level of the liquid in the container. The length of each dip tube must be checked when installed by weighing each container after filling except when installed in groups of substantially identical containers, in which case one of each 25 containers must be weighed. The quantity of liquefied gas in each container must be checked by means of the dip tube after disconnecting from the filling line. The outlet from the dip tube may not be larger than 0.1016 centimeters (0.040 inch; No. 54 drill bit size orifice). A container representative of each day's filling at each filling plant must have its contents checked by weighing after disconnecting from the filling line.
