
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.304b Additional requirements for shipment of liquefied compressed gases in UN pressure receptacles.
######## UN pressure receptacle filling limits.

(b)A UN pressure receptacle is authorized for the transportation of liquefied compressed gases and gas mixtures as specified in this section. When a liquefied compressed gas or gas mixture is transported in a UN pressure receptacle, the filling ratio may not exceed the maximum filling ratio prescribed in this section and the applicable ISO standard. Compliance with the filling limits may be determined by referencing the numerical values and data in Table 2 of P200 of the UN Recommendations (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). Alternatively, the maximum allowable filling limits may be determined as follows:

(1) For high pressure liquefied gases, in no case may the filling ratio of the settled pressure at 65 &#xB0;C (149 &#xB0;F) exceed the test pressure of the UN pressure receptacle.

(2) For low pressure liquefied gases, the maximum mass in kilograms of contents per liter of water capacity must be less than or equal to 95 percent of the liquid phase at 50 &#xB0;C. In addition, the UN pressure receptacle may not be liquid full at 60 &#xB0;C. The test pressure of the pressure receptacle must be equal to or greater than the vapor pressure of the liquid at 65 &#xB0;C.

(3) For high pressure liquefied gases or gas mixtures, the maximum filling ratio may be determined using the formulas in (3)(b) of P200 of the UN Recommendations.

(4) For low pressure liquefied gases or gas mixtures, the maximum filling ratio may be determined using the formulas in (3)(c) of P200 of the UN Recommendations.

(5) For liquefied gases charged with compressed gases, both components-the liquefied gas and the compressed gas-must be taken into consideration in the calculation of the internal pressure in the pressure receptacle. The maximum mass of contents per liter of water capacity shall not exceed 95 percent of the density of the liquid phase at 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F); in addition, the liquid phase shall not completely fill the pressure receptacle at any temperature up to 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F). When filled, the internal pressure at 65 &#xB0;C (149 &#xB0;F) shall not exceed the test pressure of the pressure receptacles. The vapor pressures and volumetric expansions of all substances in the pressure receptacles shall be considered. The maximum filling limits may be determined using the procedure in (3)(e) of P200 of the UN Recommendations.

(c) Tetraflouroethylene, stabilized, UN1081 must be packaged in a pressure receptacle with a minimum test pressure of 200 bar and a working pressure not exceeding 5 bar.

(d) Fertilizer ammoniating solution with free ammonia, UN1043 is not authorized in UN tubes or MEGCs.
