
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.306 Limited quantities of compressed gases.

(a) Limited quantities of compressed gases for which exceptions are permitted as noted by reference to this section in § 172.101 of this subchapter are excepted from labeling, except when offered for transportation or transported by air, and, unless required as a condition of the exception, specification packaging requirements of this subchapter when packaged in accordance with the following paragraphs. For transportation by aircraft, the package must conform to the applicable requirements of § 173.27 and only packages of hazardous materials authorized aboard passenger-carrying aircraft may be transported as a limited quantity. In addition, shipments are not subject to subpart F (Placarding) of part 172 of this subchapter, to part 174 of this subchapter except § 174.24, and to part 177 of this subchapter except § 177.817. Except as otherwise provided in this section, each package may not exceed 30 kg (66 lbs.) gross weight.

(1) When in containers of not more than 4 fluid ounces capacity (7.22 cubic inches or less) except cigarette lighters. Additional exceptions for certain compressed gases in limited quantities are provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(2) When in refillable metal containers filled with a material that is not classed as a hazardous material to not more than 90% of capacity at 21.1 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F) and then charged with nonflammable, nonliquefied gas. Each container must be tested to three times the pressure at 21.1 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F) and, when refilled, be retested to three times the pressure of the gas at 21.1 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F). Also, one of the following conditions must be met:

(i) The container is not over 0.95 L (1 quart) capacity and charged to not more than 170 psig (1172.1 kPa) at 21.1 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F), and must be packed in a strong outer packaging; or

(ii) The container is not over 114 L (30 gallons) capacity and charged to not more than 75 psig (517.1 kPa) at 21.1 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F).
