
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.306 Limited quantities of compressed gases.
######## 2

() Testing after filling. The person filling each container must ensure that the crimping equipment is set appropriately and the specified propellant is used before filling a container. Once filled, each container must be weighed and leak tested. The leak detection equipment must be sufficiently sensitive to detect at least a leak rate of 2.0 x 10mbar L/s at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F). Any filled container which shows evidence of leakage, deformation, or overfilling must be rejected.

(vi) Each outer packaging must be marked "INSIDE CONTAINERS COMPLY WITH PRESCRIBED REGULATIONS."

(4) Gas samples must be transported under the following conditions:

(i) A gas sample may only be transported as non-pressurized gas when its pressure corresponding to ambient atmospheric pressure in the container is not more than 105 kPa absolute (15.22 psia).

(ii) Non-pressurized gases, toxic (or toxic and flammable) must be packed in hermetically sealed glass or metal inner packagings of not more than one L (0.3 gallons) overpacked in a strong outer packaging.

(iii) Non-pressurized gases, flammable must be packed in hermetically sealed glass or metal inner packagings of not more than 5 L (1.3 gallons) and overpacked in a strong outer packaging.

(5) For limited quantities of Division 2.2 gases with no subsidiary risk, when in a non-DOT specification or a specification DOT 2S (ยง 178.33b of this subchapter) plastic aerosol container (see ยง 171.8 of this subchapter for the definition of aerosol) provided all of the following conditions are met. Additional exceptions for aerosols conforming to this paragraph (a)(5) are provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
