
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.306 Limited quantities of compressed gases.
######## Leakage test.

(vi)As an alternative to the hot water bath test in paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, testing may be performed as follows:

(A) Pressure and leak testing before filling. Each empty container must be subjected to a pressure equal to or in excess of the maximum expected in the filled containers at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) or 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) if the liquid phase does not exceed 95% of the capacity of the container at 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F). This must be at least two-thirds of the design pressure of the container. If any container shows evidence of leakage at a rate equal to or greater than 3.3 x 10mbar L/s at the test pressure, distortion or other defect, it must be rejected; and

(B) Testing after filling. Prior to filling, the filler must ensure that the crimping equipment is set appropriately and the specified propellant is used before filling the container. Once filled, each container must be weighed and leak tested. The leak detection equipment must be sufficiently sensitive to detect at least a leak rate of 2.0 x 10mbar L/s at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F). Any filled container that shows evidence of leakage, deformation, or excessive weight must be rejected.

(vii) Each outer packaging must be marked "INSIDE CONTAINERS COMPLY WITH PRESCRIBED REGULATIONS."
