
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.306 Limited quantities of compressed gases.
######## Exceptions for foodstuffs, soap, biologicals, electronic tubes, and audible fire alarm systems.

(b)Limited quantities of compressed gases (except Division 2.3 gases) for which exceptions are provided as indicated by reference to this section in § 172.101 of this subchapter, when in conformance with one of the following paragraphs, are excepted from labeling, except when offered for transportation or transported by aircraft, and the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter. For transportation by aircraft, the package must conform to the applicable requirements of § 173.27 and only packages of hazardous materials authorized aboard passenger-carrying aircraft may be transported as a limited quantity. In addition, shipments are not subject to subpart F (Placarding) of part 172 of this subchapter, to part 174 of this subchapter, except § 174.24, and to part 177 of this subchapter, except § 177.817. Additional exceptions for certain compressed gases in limited quantities are provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(1) Foodstuffs or soaps with soluble or emulsified compressed gas are authorized in non-refillable metal or plastic containers not to exceed 1 L (61.0 cubic inches) capacity provided the pressure in each container does not exceed 140 psig at 54.4 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F) unless authorized by variation of a container type. For pressures ranging from greater than 140 psig to 160 psig, a variation DOT 2P1 or DOT 2Q2 (§§ 178.33(c) and (d) of this subchapter, respectively) container must be used. However, the pressure of the contents in the container may not be greater than 150 psig at 23.9 &#xB0;C (75 &#xB0;F). Plastic containers may only contain Division 2.2 non-flammable soluble or emulsified compressed gas. Metal or plastic containers must be capable of withstanding, without bursting, a pressure of at least one and one-half times the equilibrium pressure of the contents at 54.4 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F).

(i) Containers must be packed in strong outer packagings.

(ii) Liquid content of the material and the gas must not completely fill the container at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F).

(iii) Each outer packaging must be marked "INSIDE CONTAINERS COMPLY WITH PRESCRIBED REGULATIONS."

(2) Cream in refillable metal or plastic containers with soluble or emulsified compressed gas. Plastic containers must only contain Division 2.2 non-flammable soluble or emulsified compressed gas. Containers must be of such design that they will hold pressure without permanent deformation up to 375 psig and must be equipped with a device designed so as to release pressure without bursting of the container or dangerous projection of its parts at higher pressures. This exception applies to shipments offered for transportation by refrigerated motor vehicles only.

(3) Nonrefillable metal or plastic containers charged with a Division 6.1 PG III or nonflammable solution containing biological products or a medical preparation that could be deteriorated by heat, and compressed gas or gases. Plastic containers may only contain 2.2 non-flammable soluble or emulsified compressed gas. The capacity of each container may not exceed 35 cubic inches (19.3 fluid ounces). The pressure in the container may not exceed 140 psig at 54.4 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F), and the liquid content of the product and gas must not completely fill the containers at 54.4 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F). One completed container out of each lot of 500 or less, filled for shipment, must be heated, until the pressure in the container is equivalent to equilibrium pressure of the contents at 54.4 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F). There must be no evidence of leakage, distortion, or other defect. The container must be packed in strong outer packagings.

(4) Electronic tubes, each having a volume of not more than 30 cubic inches and charged with gas to a pressure of not more than 35 psig and packed in strong outer packagings are authorized.

(5) Audible fire alarm systems powered by a compressed gas contained in an inside metal container when shipped are authorized under the following conditions:

(i) Each inside container must have contents that are not flammable, poisonous, or corrosive as defined under this part,

(ii) Each inside container may not have a capacity exceeding 35 cubic inches (19.3 fluid ounces),

(iii) Each inside container may not have a pressure exceeding 70 psig at 21.1 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F) and the liquid portion of the gas may not completely fill the inside container at 54.4 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F), and

(iv) Each nonrefillable inside container must be designed and fabricated with a burst pressure of not less than four times its charged pressure at 54.4 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F). Each refillable inside container must be designed and fabricated with a burst pressure of not less than five times its charged pressure at 54.4 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F).

(c)-(d) [Reserved]
