
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.306 Limited quantities of compressed gases.
######## Refrigerating machines.

(e)(1) New (unused) refrigerating machines or components thereof are excepted from the specification packaging requirements of this part if they meet the following conditions. In addition, shipments are not subject to subpart F of part 172 of this subchapter, to part 174 of this subchapter except § 174.24 and to part 177 of this subchapter except § 177.817.

(i) Each pressure vessel may not contain more than 5,000 pounds of Group A1 refrigerant as classified in ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 15 or not more than 50 pounds of refrigerant other than Group A1.

(ii) Machines or components having two or more charged vessels may not contain an aggregate of more than 2,000 pounds of Group I refrigerant or more than 100 pounds of refrigerant other than Group I.

(iii) Each pressure vessel must be equipped with a safety device meeting the requirements of ANSI/ASHRAE 15 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(iv) Each pressure vessel must be equipped with a shut-off valve at each opening except openings used for safety devices and with no other connection. These valves must be closed prior to and during transportation.

(v) Pressure vessels must be manufactured, inspected and tested in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 15, or when over 6 inches internal diameter, in accordance with Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(vi) All parts subject to refrigerant pressure during shipment must be tested in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 15.

(vii) The liquid portion of the refrigerant, if any, may not completely fill any pressure vessel at 130 &#xB0;F.

(viii) The amount of refrigerant, if liquefied, may not exceed the filling density prescribed in § 173.304.
