
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.306 Limited quantities of compressed gases.
######## Water pump system tank.

(g)Water pump system tanks pre-charged at time of manufacture with compressed air or limited quantities of nitrogen or helium to not over 275.79 kPa gauge pressure (40 psig) for single-trip shipment to installation sites are excepted from labeling, and the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter when shipped under the following conditions. In addition, shipments of these tanks are not subject to the placarding requirements of subpart F of part 172 of this subchapter, and not subject to parts 174 (except ยง 174.24) and 177 (except ยง 177.817) of this subchapter.

(1) The tank must be of steel or composite construction, with heads concave to pressure, having a rated water capacity not exceeding 455 L (120 gallons) and with an outside diameter not exceeding 61 cm (24 inches). These tanks may be operated in ambient air temperatures of up to 49 &#xB0;C (120 &#xB0;F) with a maximum working pressure not less than 75 psig and not greater than 150 psig. Safety relief devices are not required.

(2) Each tank must be pneumatically tested to the manufacturer's specified maximum working pressure. The test pressure must be permanently marked on the tank. In any case, the pneumatic test must not be conducted to a pressure exceeding 150 psig.

(3) The stress at prescribed pressure for steel tanks must not exceed 20,000 psig (or 25,000 psig for deep-draw steel), using the formula:

(4) For steel and composite tanks, the burst pressure must be at least six (6) times the pre-charge pressure at 21.1 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F) or three (3) times the manufacturer's specified maximum working pressure, whichever is greater.

(5) Each tank must be over-packed in a strong outer packaging in conformance with ยง 173.301(h).

(6) Transportation is limited to motor vehicle, railcar, and vessel. Transportation by aircraft is not authorized.
