
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.308 Lighters.
######## General requirements.

(a)No person may offer for transportation or transport a lighter (see ยง 171.8 of this subchapter) containing a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material except under the following conditions:

(1) The lighter must contain a fuel reservoir not exceeding 4 fluid ounces capacity (7.22 cubic inches), and must contain not more than 10 grams (0.35 ounce) of flammable gas.

(2) The maximum filling density may not exceed 85 percent of the volumetric capacity of each fluid reservoir at 15 &#xB0;C (59 &#xB0;F).

(3) Each lighter design, including closures, must be capable of withstanding, without leakage or rupture, an internal pressure of at least two times the pressure of the flammable gas at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F).

(4) Each appropriate lighter design must be examined and successfully tested by a person or agency (authorized testing agency) who is authorized by the Associate Administrator to perform such examination and testing under the provisions of subpart E of part 107 of this chapter and who-

(i) Has the equipment necessary to perform the testing required to the level of accuracy required;

(ii) Is able to demonstrate, upon request, the knowledge of the testing procedures and requirements of the HMR relative to lighters;

(iii) Does not manufacture or market lighters, is not financially dependent or owned in whole or in part, by any entity that manufactures or markets lighters;

(iv) Is a resident of the United States; and

(v) Performs all examination and testing in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) and (4) of this section.

(5) The Associate Administrator will assign an identification code to each person who is authorized to examine and test lighters. This identification code must be incorporated into a unique test report identifier for each successfully tested lighter design.
