
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.308 Lighters.
######## Examination and testing of sample lighters by an authorized testing agency.

(3)Each sample lighter must be examined for conformance with paragraph (a) of this section by a person authorized by the Associate Administrator. In addition, lighters must be subjected to the following leakage test:

(i) A minimum of six lighters must be examined and tested at one time. Store the lighters in a desiccator for 24 hours. After drying, weigh each lighter on an analytical balance capable of accurately measuring to withinof a milligram (0.0001 grams).

(ii) After weighing, place the lighters together in an explosion-proof, controlled-temperature laboratory oven capable of maintaining 38 +/-1 &#xB0;C (100 +/-2 &#xB0;F) for 96 continuous hours (4 days). At the end of 96 hours, remove the lighters from the oven and place them in the same desiccator and allow the lighters to cool to ambient temperature.

(iii) After cooling, weigh each lighter and determine the net weight differences for each lighter tested (subtract the mass after oven exposure from the original mass before oven exposure).

(iv) Weight losses must be assessed to determine the quantity of gas that leaked from the lighters and from the weight change as a result of absorbed moisture. If the net weight has increased, the test facility must run the required test using six empty lighters in parallel with the six filled lighters. The parallel tests are conducted to determine the weight of moisture absorbed in the plastic in order to determine the weight loss of the lighters from gas leakage.

(v) If the net weight loss for any one of the six lighters exceeds 20 milligrams (0.020 grams), the design must be rejected.

(vi) Lighters manufactured to a rejected lighter design may not be offered for transportation or transported in commerce unless approved in writing by the Associate Administrator.
