
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.308 Lighters.
######## Recordkeeping requirements.

(4)(i) Following the examination of each new lighter design, the person or agency that conducted the examination and test must prepare a test report and make that test report available to the manufacturer. At a minimum, the test report must contain the following information:

(A) Name and address of test facility;

(B) Name and address of applicant;

(C) A test report identifier, that is, the authorized person or agency identifier code immediately followed by an alpha/numeric identifier of four or more characters assigned to the specific lighter design by the authorized person or agency (e.g., "LAA****," where, "LAA" is the identification code assigned to the authorized person or agency by the Associate Administrator and "****" is replaced with the unique test report identifier assigned to the specific lighter design by the authorized person or agency);

(D) Manufacturer of the lighter. For a foreign manufacturer, the U.S. agent or importer must be identified;

(E) Description of the lighter design type (e.g., model, dimensions, ignition mechanism, reservoir capacity, lot/batch number) in sufficient detail to ensure conformance with paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section; and

(F) A certification by the authorized testing agency that the lighter design conforms to paragraph (a) of this section and passes or does not pass the required leakage test in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) For as long as any lighter design is in production and for at least three years thereafter, a copy of each lighter's test report must be maintained by the authorized testing agency that performed the examination and testing and the manufacturer of the design. For a foreign manufacturer, each test report must be maintained in accordance with this paragraph by the foreign manufacturer's U.S. agent or importer.

(iii) Test reports must be traceable to a specific lighter design and must be made available to a representative of the Department upon request.
