
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.308 Lighters.
######## Exceptions,Common or contract carriage.,i.e.,

(e)-(1)For highway transportation by common or contract carrier, when no more than 1,500 lighters covered by this section are transported in one motor vehicle, the requirements of subparts C through H of part 172, and part 177 of this subchapter do not apply. Lighters transported in accordance with this paragraph are also excepted from the specification packaging, shipping paper, and marking requirements specified in ยง 173.308(c) and (d). Inner packagings must conform to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Lighters must be further packaged in rigid, strong outer packagings meeting the general packaging requirements of subpart B of part 173. Outer packagings must be plainly and durably marked, on two opposing sides or ends, with the word "LIGHTERS" and the number of devices contained therein in letters measuring at least 20 mm (0.79 in) in height. In addition, the package must include the test report identifier for each lighter design as specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) of this section or, if applicable, the previously issued approval number (T***). The test report identifier or approval number must be durable, legible, in English, and located in, attached to, or marked directly on the package. No person may offer for transportation or transport the lighters or prepare the lighters for shipment unless that person has been specifically informed of the requirements of this section.
