
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.312 Requirements for shipment of MEGCs.
######## General requirements.

(a)(1) Unless otherwise specified, a MEGC is authorized for the shipment of liquefied and non-liquefied compressed gases. Each pressure receptacle contained in a MEGC must meet the requirements in §§ 173.301, 173.301b, 173.302b and 173.304b, as applicable.

(2) The MEGC must conform to the design, construction, inspection and testing requirements prescribed in § 178.75 of this subchapter.

(3) No person may offer or accept a hazardous material for transportation in a MEGC that is damaged to such an extent that the integrity of the pressure receptacles or the MEGC's structural or service equipment may be affected.

(4) No person may fill or offer for transportation a pressure receptacle in a MEGC if the pressure receptacle or the MEGC is due for periodic requalification, as prescribed in subpart C to part 180 of this subchapter. However, this restriction does not preclude transportation of pressure receptacles filled and offered for transportation prior to the requalification due date.

(5) Prior to filling and offering a MEGC for transportation, the MEGC's structural and service equipment must be visually inspected. Any unsafe condition must be corrected before the MEGC is offered for transportation. All required markings must be legible.

(6) Except for Division 2.2 permanent gases, each pressure receptacle must be equipped with an individual shutoff valve that must be tightly closed while in transit. For Division 2.1, Division 2.2 liquefied gases and 2.3 gases, the manifold must be designed so that each pressure receptacle can be filled separately and be kept isolated by a valve capable of being closed during transit. For Division 2.1 gases, the pressure receptacles must be isolated by a valve into assemblies of not more than 3,000 L.
