
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.314 Compressed gases in tank cars and multi-unit tank cars.
######## General requirements.

(b)(1) Tank car tanks containing compressed gases must not be shipped unless they were loaded by or with the consent of the owner thereof.

(2) Tank car tanks must not contain gases capable of combining chemically and must not be loaded with any gas which combines chemically with the gas previously loaded therein, until all residue has been removed and interior of tank thoroughly cleaned.

(3) For tanks of the DOT-106A and 110A class, the tanks must be placed in position and attached to car structure by the shipper.

(4) Wherever the word "approved" is used in this part of the regulations, it means approval by the Association of American Railroads Committee on Tank Cars as prescribed in ยง 179.3 of this subchapter.

(5) Each tank car used for the transportation of anhydrous ammonia or any material that meets the criteria of Division 2.1 or 2.3 must have gaskets for manway cover plates and for mounting of fittings designed (for temperature, application, media, pressure, and size) to create a positive seal so that, under conditions normally incident to transportation, there will not be an identifiable release of the material to the environment. The use of sealants to install gaskets is prohibited.
