
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.314 Compressed gases in tank cars and multi-unit tank cars.
######## Metering device.

(2)(i) Tank cars loaded with anhydrous ammonia or ammonia solution through the use of a metering device in conformance with this section are not required to be weighed, but must have their outage measured with a magnetic gauging device to determine that the tank car is properly loaded in conformance with this paragraph. Written procedures for loading a tank car using a metering device must be developed and made available at each location where such loading takes place. Certification in writing of the inspection and completion of these loading and/or unloading procedures must be maintained for each tank car and maintained in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, and all necessary records must be completed. At a minimum, these procedures will specify:

(A) The tank car must be offered for transportation in conformance with all applicable government regulations.

(B) Any defects found when the tank car is examined before shipping must be recorded, and the tank must not be loaded until the repairs to eliminate each defect are completed.

(C) The tank car must be allowed to sit undisturbed for at least 10 minutes after loading to allow material within the tank to settle. After this has occurred a final check for leaks must be conducted prior to offering the tank car for transportation.

(ii) One out of every 10 tank cars loaded by the use of the metering device must be gauged utilizing the fixed gauging equipment on the tank car to verify by calculation the amount of anhydrous ammonia or ammonia solution contained in the tank car.
