
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.315 Compressed gases in cargo tanks and portable tanks.
######## A tank containing ethane, refrigerated liquid; ethane-propane mixture, refrigerated liquid; or hydrogen chloride, refrigerated liquid.

(2)Such tank must be filled to allow at least two percent outage below the inlet of the pressure relief valve or pressure control valve under conditions of incipient opening, with the tank in a level attitude.

(d) If the loading of cargo tanks and portable tank containers with liquefied gases is to be determined by weight, the gross weight shall be checked after the filling line is disconnected in each instance. The gross weight shall be calculated from the tank capacity and tare weight set forth on the metal plate required by the specification, and the maximum filling density permitted for the material being loaded into the tank as set forth in the table, paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) If the loading of cargo tanks and portable tank containers with liquefied gases is to be determined by adjustable liquid level device, each tank and each compartment thereof shall have a thermometer well, so that the internal liquid temperature can easily be determined, and the amount of liquid in the tank shall be corrected to a 60 &#xB0;F. basis. Liquid levels shall not exceed a level corresponding to the maximum filling density permitted for the material being loaded into the tank as set forth in the table in paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) When the loading of cargo tanks and portable tank containers with liquefied gases is determined only by fixed length dip tube or other fixed maximum liquid level indicator, the device shall be arranged to function at a level not to exceed the maximum permitted volume prescribed by the table, paragraph (a) of this section. Loading shall be stopped when the device functions.

(g) Containers, the liquid level of which has been determined by means of a fixed length dip tube gauging device, shall not be acceptable for stowage as cargo on vessels in commerce subject to the jurisdiction of the United States Coast Guard. Nothing contained in this section shall be so construed as to prohibit the transportation on car floats or car ferries of motor vehicles laden with containers nor cargo tanks the liquid level of either of which has been determined by means of fixed length dip tube devices.

(h) Each cargo tank and portable tank, except a tank filled by weight, must be equipped with one or more of the gauging devices described in the following table which indicate accurately the maximum permitted liquid level (for purposes of the following table, a column entry with "do" indicates "same as above"). Additional gauging devices may be installed but may not be used as primary controls for filling of cargo tanks and portable tanks. Gauge glasses are not permitted on any cargo tank or portable tank. Primary gauging devices used on cargo tanks of less than 3500 gallons water capacity are exempt from the longitudinal location requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section provided: The tank length does not exceed three times the tank diameter; and the cargo tank is unloaded within 24 hours after each filling of the tank.

(1) The design pressure of the liquid level gauging devices shall be at least equal to the design pressure of the tank.

(2) If the primary gauging device is adjustable, it must be capable of adjustment so that the end of the tube will be in the location specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section for at least one of the ladings to be transported, at the filling level corresponding to an average loading temperature. Exterior means must be provided to indicate this adjustment. The gauging device must be legibly and permanently marked in increments not exceeding 20 Fahrenheit degrees (or not exceeding 25 p.s.i.g. on tanks for carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid), to indicate the maximum levels to which the tank may be filled with liquid at temperatures above 20 &#xB0;F. However, if it is not practicable to so mark the gauging device, this information must be legibly and permanently marked on a plate affixed to the tank adjacent to the gauging device.

(3) A dip tube gauging device consists of a pipe or tube with a valve at its outer end with its intake limited by an orifice not larger than 0.060 inch in diameter. If a fixed length dip tube is used, the intake must be located midway of the tank both longitudinally and laterally and at maximum permitted filling level. In tanks for liquefied petroleum gases, the intake must be located at the level reached by the lading when the tank is loaded to maximum filling density at 40 &#xB0;F.

(4) Except on a tank used exclusively for the transportation of carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid, each opening for a pressure gauge must be restricted at or inside the tank by an orifice no larger than 0.060 inch in diameter. For carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid service, the pressure gauge need only be used during the filling operation.

(i) Each tank must be provided with one or more pressure relief devices which, unless otherwise specified in this part, must be of the spring-loaded type. Each valve must be arranged to discharge upward and unobstructed to the outside of the protective housing to prevent any impingement of escaping gas upon the tank. For each chlorine tank the protective housing must be in compliance with the requirements set forth in the applicable specification.

(1) The safety relief valves on each tank must meet the following conditions:

(i) The total relieving capacity, as determined by the flow formulas contained in Section 5 of CGA S-1.2 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), must be sufficient to prevent a maximum pressure in the tank of more than 120 percent of the design pressure;

(ii) The flow capacity rating, testing and marking must be in accordance with Sections 5, 6 and 7 of CGA Pamphlet S-1.2.

(iii) For an insulated tank, the required relieving capacity of the relief devices must be the same as for an uninsulated tank, unless the insulation will remain in place and will be effective under fire conditions. In this case, except for UN portable tanks, each insulated tank must be covered by a sheet metal jacket of not less than 16 gauge thickness. For UN portable tanks where the relieving capacity of the valves has been reduced on the basis of the insulation system, the insulation system must remain effective at all temperatures less than 649 &#xB0;C (1200.2 &#xB0;F) and be jacketed with a material having a melting point of 700 &#xB0;C (1292.0 &#xB0;F) or greater.

(iv) An MC 330 cargo tank that has relief valves sized by Fetterly's formula dated November 27, 1928, may be continued in service.

(2) Each safety relief valve must be arranged to minimize the possibility of tampering. If the pressure setting or adjustment is external to the valve, the safety relief valve must be provided with means for sealing the adjustment and it must be sealed.

(3) Each safety relief valve on a portable tank, other than a UN portable tank, must be set to start-to-discharge at pressure no higher than 110% of the tank design pressure and no lower than the design pressure specified in paragraph (a) of this section for the gas transported. For UN portable tanks used for liquefied compressed gases and constructed in accordance with the requirements of § 178.276 of this subchapter, the pressure relief device(s) must conform to § 178.276(e) of this subchapter.

(4) Except for UN portable tanks, each safety relief valve must be plainly and permanently marked with the pressure in p.s.i.g. at which it is set to discharge, with the actual rate of discharge of the device in cubic feet per minute of the gas or of air at 60 &#xB0;F (15.6 &#xB0;C) and 14.7 p.s.i.a., and with the manufacturer's name or trade name and catalog number. The start-to-discharge valve marking must be visible after the valve is installed. The rated discharge capacity of the device must be determined at a pressure of 120% of the design pressure of the tank. For UN portable tanks, each pressure relief device must be clearly and permanently marked as specified in § 178.274(f)(1) of this subchapter.

(5) Each safety relief valve must have direct communication with the vapor space in the tank.

(6) Each connection to a safety relief valve must be of sufficient size to provide the required rate of discharge through the safety relief valve.

(7) [Reserved]

(8) Each pressure relief valve outlet must be provided with a protective device to prevent the entrance and accumulation of dirt and water. This device must not impede flow through the valve. Pressure relief devices must be designed to prevent the entry of foreign matter, the leakage of liquid and the development of any dangerous excess pressure.

(9) On tanks for carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid or nitrous oxide, refrigerated liquid each safety relief device must be installed and located so that the cooling effect of the contents will not prevent the effective operation of the device. In addition to the required safety relief valves, these tanks may be equipped with one or more pressure controlling devices.

(10) Each tank for carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid also may be equipped with one or more non-reclosing pressure relief devices set to function at a pressure not over two times nor less than 1.5 times the design pressure of the tank.

(11) Each portion of connected liquid piping or hose that can be closed at both ends must be provided with a safety relief valve without an intervening shut-off valve to prevent excessive hydrostatic pressure that could burst the piping or hose.

(12) Subject to conditions of paragraph (a) of this section for the methyl chloride and sulfur dioxide optional portable tanks, one or more fusible plugs examined by the Bureau of Explosives and approved by the Associate Administrator may be used on these tanks in place of safety relief valves of the spring-loaded type. The fusible plug or plugs must be in accordance with CGA Pamphlet S-1.2, to prevent a pressure rise in the tank of more than 120 percent of the design pressure. If the tank is over 30 inches long, each end must have the total specified safety discharge area.

(13) A safety relief valve on a chlorine cargo tank must conform to one of the following standards of The Chlorine Institute, Inc.: Type 1JQ225, Dwg. H51970 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter); or Type 1JQ225, Dwg. H50155 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).
