
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.315 Compressed gases in cargo tanks and portable tanks.
######## Consumer storage containers.

(j)(1) Storage containers for liquefied petroleum gas or propane charged to five percent of their capacity or less and intended for permanent installation on consumer premises may be shipped by private motor carrier under the following conditions:

(i) Each container must be constructed in compliance with the requirements in Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) and must be marked to indicate compliance in the manner specified by the respective Code. Containers built in compliance with earlier editions starting with 1943 are authorized.

(ii) Each container must be equipped with safety devices in compliance with the requirements for safety devices on containers as specified in NFPA 58, Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(iii) The containers must be braced or otherwise secured on the vehicle to prevent relative motion while in transit. Valves or other fittings must be adequately protected against damage during transportation. (See § 177.834(a) of this subchapter).

(iv) Storage containers of less than 1,042 pounds water capacity (125 gallons) may be shipped when charged with liquefied petroleum gas in compliance with DOT filling density.

(2) Storage containers with a water capacity not exceeding 500 gallons charged with liquefied petroleum gas to more than five percent of their capacity and intended for permanent installation on consumer premises may be transported by private motor carrier one-way only from the consumer's premises to the container owner's nearest facility under the following conditions:

(i) Each container must be constructed in compliance with the requirements in Section VIII of the ASME Code and must be marked to indicate compliance in the manner specified by the respective Code.

(ii) Maximum permitted filling density may not exceed that specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(iii) Prior to loading on a motor vehicle, the container must be inspected by a trained and qualified person for leaks, corroded or abraded areas, dents, distortions, weld defects, or other condition that may render the container unsafe for transportation. A record of the inspection must be legibly signed and dated by the person performing the inspection and retained by the container owner for two years. The signature on the inspection record represents a certification that the container has been inspected and has no defects that would render it unsafe for transportation under the HMR. The record of inspection must include the date of inspection, the inspector's contact information (such as a telephone number), the container's serial number and container size (water capacity), estimated amount of hazardous material, and the origin and destination of shipment.

(iv) Only one storage container may be transported on a motor vehicle.

(v) For loading on a motor vehicle, the container must be lifted by slings, which must be completely wrapped around the container. Lifting lugs may not be used. The slings must be rated to a weight sufficient to accommodate the container and its lading and shall comply with ASME B30.9 on slings used for lifting purposes, and must be visually inspected prior to each use. A sling showing evidence of tears, fraying, or other signs of excessive wear may not be used.

(vi) The storage container must be secured on a motor vehicle so that the container is completely within the envelope of the vehicle and does not extend beyond the vehicle frame.

(vii) The storage container must be placed on the vehicle in a manner, such as in a cradle, which ensures that no weight is placed on the supporting legs during transportation.

(viii) The storage container must be secured against shifting during transportation. Bracing must conform with the requirements of paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section and § 177.834(a) of this subchapter and with Section 6-5.2 of NFPA 58, Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code. Straps or chains used as tie-downs must be rated to exceed the maximum load to be transported and conform to the requirements in §§ 393.100 through 393.106 of this title.

(ix) Tow trailers used to transport storage containers in accordance with this paragraph (j)(2) must provide rear end protection that conforms to requirements in § 393.86 of this title.

(k) A nonspecification cargo tank meeting, and marked in conformance with, the edition of Section VIII of the ASME Code in effect when it was fabricated may be used for the transportation of liquefied petroleum gas provided it meets all of the following conditions:

(1) It must have a minimum design pressure no lower than 250 psig.

(2) It must have a capacity of 13,247.5 L (3,500 water gallons) or less.

(3) It must have been manufactured in conformance with Section VIII of the ASME Code prior to January 1, 1981, according to its ASME name plate and manufacturer's data report.

(4) It must conform to the applicable provisions of NFPA 58, except to the extent that provisions in NFPA 58 are inconsistent with requirements in parts 178 and 180 of this subchapter.

(5) It must be inspected, tested, and equipped in accordance with subpart E of part 180 of this subchapter as specified for MC 331 cargo tank motor vehicles.

(6) Except as provided in this paragraph (k), it must be operated exclusively in intrastate commerce, including its operation by a motor carrier otherwise engaged in interstate commerce, in a state where its operation was permitted by law (not including the incorporation of this subchapter) prior to January 1, 1981. A cargo tank motor vehicle operating under authority of this section may cross state lines to travel to and from a qualified assembly, repair, maintenance, or requalification facility. The cargo tank need not be cleaned and purged, but it may not contain liquefied petroleum gas in excess of five percent of the water capacity of the cargo tank. If the vehicle engine is supplied fuel from the cargo tank, enough fuel in excess of five percent of the cargo tank's water capacity may be carried for the trip to or from the facility.

(7) It must have been used to transport liquefied petroleum gas prior to January 1, 1981.

(8) It must be operated in conformance with all other requirements of this subchapter.

(l) Anhydrous ammonia must not be offered for transportation or transported in specification MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tanks constructed of quenched and tempered ("QT") steel except as provided in this paragraph.

(1) The ammonia must have a minimum water content of 0.2 percent by weight. Any addition of water must be made using steam condensate, deionized, or distilled water.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, each person offering for transportation or transporting anhydrous ammonia shall perform a periodic analysis for prescribed water content in the ammonia. The analysis must be performed:

(i) From a sample of the ammonia in storage taken at least once every 7 days, or each time ammonia is added to the storage tanks, whichever is less frequent; or

(ii) At the time the cargo tanks are loaded, then a sample of the ammonia taken from at least one loaded cargo tank out of each 10 loads, or from one cargo tank every 24 hours, whichever is less frequent; or

(iii) At the same frequency as described in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, from a sample taken from the loading line to the cargo tank.

(3) If water is added at the time of loading:

(i) The sample for analysis must be taken from a point in the loading line between the water injection equipment and the cargo tank; and

(ii) Positive provisions must be made to assure water injection equipment is operating.

(4) If water injection equipment becomes inoperative, suitable corrective maintenance must be performed after which a sample from the first loaded cargo tank must be analyzed for prescribed water content.

(5) The analysis method for water content must be as prescribed in CGA G-2.2, "Tentative Standard Method for Determining Minimum of 0.2 percent water in Anhydrous Ammonia," (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(6) Records indicating the results of the analysis taken, as required by this paragraph, must be retained for 2 years and must be open to inspection by a representative of the Department.

(7) Each person receiving anhydrous ammonia containing 0.2 per cent water by weight may offer for transportation or transport that ammonia without performing the prescribed analysis for water content provided:

(i) The ammonia received was certified as containing 0.2 percent water as prescribed in §§ 172.203(h)(l)(i) and 177.817(a) of this subchapter; and

(ii) The amount of water in the ammonia has not been reduced by any means.
