
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.315 Compressed gases in cargo tanks and portable tanks.
######## Nurse tanks with missing or illegible ASME plates.

(2)Nurse tanks with missing or illegible ASME plates may continue to be operated provided they conform to the following requirements:

(i) Each nurse tank must undergo an external visual inspection and testing in accordance with § 180.407(d) of this subchapter.

(ii) Each nurse tank must be thickness tested in accordance with § 180.407(i) of this subchapter. A nurse tank with a capacity of less than 1,500 gallons must have a minimum head thickness of 0.203 inch and a minimum shell thickness of 0.239 inch. A nurse tank with a capacity of 1,500 gallons or more must have a minimum thickness of 0.250 inch. Any nurse tank with a thickness test reading of less than that specified in this paragraph at any point must be removed from hazardous materials service.

(iii) Each nurse tank must be pressure tested in accordance with § 180.407(g) of this subchapter. The minimum test pressure is 375 psig. Pneumatic testing is not authorized.

(iv) Each nurse tank must be inspected and tested by a person meeting the requirements of § 180.409(d) of this subchapter. Furthermore, each nurse tank must have the tests performed at least once every five years after the completion of the initial tests.

(v) After each nurse tank has successfully passed the visual, thickness, and pressure tests, welded repairs on the tank are prohibited.

(vi) After the nurse tank has successfully passed the visual, thickness, and pressure tests, it must be marked in accordance with § 180.415(b), and permanently marked near the test and inspection markings with a unique owner's identification number in letters and numbers at leastinch in height and width.

(vii) Each nurse tank owner must maintain a copy of the test inspection report prepared by the inspector. The test report must contain the results of the test and meet the requirements in § 180.417(b) and be made available to a DOT representative upon request.
