
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.315 Compressed gases in cargo tanks and portable tanks.
######## Cargo tank motor vehicles in other than metered delivery service.

(2)A cargo tank motor vehicle in other than metered delivery service must have a means to automatically shut off the flow of product without the need for human intervention within 20 seconds of an unintentional release caused by a complete separation of a liquid delivery hose (passive shut-down capability).

(i) Designed flow of product through a bypass in the valve is acceptable when authorized by this subchapter.

(ii) The design for the means to automatically shut off product flow must be certified by a Design Certifying Engineer. The certification must consider any specifications of the original component manufacturer and must explain how the passive means to shut off the flow of product operates. It must also outline the parameters (e.g., temperature, pressure, types of product) within which the passive means to shut off the flow of product is designed to operate. All components of the discharge system that are integral to the design must be included in the certification. A copy of the design certification must be provided to the owner of the cargo tank motor vehicle on which the equipment will be installed.

(iii) Installation must be performed under the supervision of a Registered Inspector unless the equipment is installed and removed as part of regular operation (e.g., a hose). The Registered Inspector must certify that the equipment is installed and tested, if it is possible to do so without damaging the equipment, in accordance with the Design Certifying Engineer's certification. The Registered Inspector must provide the certification to the owner of the cargo tank motor vehicle.
