
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.315 Compressed gases in cargo tanks and portable tanks.
######## Cargo tank motor vehicles in metered delivery service.

(3)When required by the table in paragraph (n)(1) of this section, a cargo tank motor vehicle must have an off-truck remote means to close the internal self-closing stop valve and shut off all motive and auxiliary power equipment upon activation by a qualified person attending the unloading of the cargo tank motor vehicle (off-truck remote shut-off). It must function reliably at a distance of 45.72 m (150 feet). The off-truck remote shut-off activation device must not be capable of reopening the internal self-closing stop valve after emergency activation.

(i) The emergency discharge control equipment must be installed under the supervision of a Registered Inspector. Each wireless transmitter/receiver must be tested to demonstrate that it will close the internal self-closing stop valve and shut off all motive and auxiliary power equipment at a distance of 91.44 m (300 feet) under optimum conditions. Emergency discharge control equipment that does not employ a wireless transmitter/receiver must be tested to demonstrate its functioning at the maximum length of the delivery hose.

(ii) The Registered Inspector must certify that the remote control equipment is installed in accordance with the original component manufacturer's specifications and is tested in accordance with paragraph (n)(3)(i) of this section. The Registered Inspector must provide the owner of the cargo tank motor vehicle with this certification.
