
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.315 Compressed gases in cargo tanks and portable tanks.
######## Chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles.

(o)Each cargo tank motor vehicle used for the transportation of chlorine must meet the requirements in the following:

(1) Any hose, piping, or tubing used for loading or unloading that is mounted or carried on the motor vehicle may not be attached to any valve and must be capped at all ends to prevent the entry of moisture, except at the time of loading or unloading. Except at the time of loading and unloading, the pipe connection of each angle valve must be closed with a screw plug which is chained or otherwise fastened to prevent misplacement.

(2) Each chlorine cargo tank motor vehicle angle valve must be tested to be leak free at not less than 225 psig using dry air or inert gas before installation and thereafter every 2 years when performing the required periodic retest in ยง 180.407(c) of this subchapter. Prior to each loading, the cargo tank motor vehicle must be inspected and the angle valves and gasketed joints must be examined and tested at a pressure of not less than 50 psig to determine that they are not leaking and are in proper condition for transportation. Any leaks must be corrected before the cargo tank motor vehicle is offered for transportation.

(3) Excess flow valves on the cargo tank motor vehicle must meet the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section.
