
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.316 Cryogenic liquids in cylinders.
######## General requirements.

(a)(1) A cylinder may not be loaded with a cryogenic liquid colder than the design service temperature of the packaging.

(2) A cylinder may not be loaded with any material which may combine chemically with any residue in the packaging to produce an unsafe condition.

(3) The jacket covering the insulation on a cylinder used to transport any flammable cryogenic liquid must be made of steel.

(4) A valve or fitting made of aluminum with internal rubbing or abrading aluminum parts that may come in contact with oxygen in the cryogenic liquid form may not be installed on any cylinder used to transport oxygen, cryogenic liquid unless the parts are anodized in accordance with ASTM Standard B 580 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(5) An aluminum valve, pipe or fitting may not be installed on any cylinder used to transport any flammable cryogenic liquid.

(6) Each cylinder must be provided with one or more pressure relief devices, which must be installed and maintained in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.

(7) Each pressure relief device must be installed and located so that the cooling effect of the contents during venting will not prevent effective operation of the device.

(8) All pressure relief device inlets must under maximum filling conditions be situated in the vapor space of the closed cryogenic receptacle and the devices must be arranged to ensure that the escaping vapor is discharged unobstructed.

(9) The maximum weight of the contents in a cylinder with a design service temperature colder than -320 &#xB0;F. may not exceed the design weight marked on the cylinder (see ยง 178.35 of this subchapter).
