
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.318 Cryogenic liquids in cargo tanks.
######## General requirements.

(a)(1) A cargo tank may not be loaded with a cryogenic liquid colder than the design service temperature of the packaging.

(2) A cargo tank may not be loaded with any material that may combine chemically with any residue in the packaging to produce an unsafe condition (see § 178.338-15).

(3) The jacket covering the insulation on a tank used to transport a cryogenic liquid must be made of steel if the cryogenic liquid:

(i) Is to be transported by vessel (see § 176.76(g) of this subchapter); or

(ii) Is oxygen or a flammable material.

(4) A valve or fitting made of aluminum with internal rubbing or abrading aluminum parts that may come in contact with oxygen in the cryogenic liquid form may not be installed on any cargo tank used to transport oxygen, cryogenic liquid unless the parts are anodized in accordance with ASTM Standard B 580 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(5) An aluminum valve, pipe or fitting, external to the jacket that retains lading during transportation may not be installed on any cargo tank used to transport oxygen, cryogenic liquid or any flammable cryogenic liquid.

(6) A cargo tank used to transport oxygen, cryogenic liquid must be provided with a manhole (see § 178.338-6 of this subchapter).
