
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.318 Cryogenic liquids in cargo tanks.
######## Arrangement and location of pressure relief devices.

(7)(i) The discharge from any pressure relief system must be directed upward and be unobstructed to the outside of the protective housing in such a manner as to prevent impingement of gas upon the jacket or any structural part of the vehicle.

(ii) Each pressure relief valve must be arranged or protected to prevent the accumulation of foreign material between the relief valve and the atmospheric discharge opening in any relief piping. The arrangement must not impede flow through the device.

(iii) Each pressure relief valve must be designed and located to minimize the possibility of tampering. If the pressure setting or adjustment is external to the valve, the valve adjustment must be sealed.

(iv) Each pressure relief device must have direct communication with the vapor space of the tank at the midlength of the top centerline.

(v) Each pressure relief device must be installed and located so that the cooling effect of the contents during venting will not prevent the effective operation of the device.

(vi) All pressure relief device inlets must under maximum filling conditions be situated in the vapor space of the closed cryogenic receptacle and the devices must be arranged to ensure that the escaping vapor is discharged unobstructed.
