
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.318 Cryogenic liquids in cargo tanks.
######## One-way travel time; marking.

(g)The jacket of a cargo tank to be used to transport a flammable cryogenic liquid must be marked on its right side near the front, in letters and numbers at least two inches high, "One-Way-Travel-Time __ hrs.", with the blank filled in with a number indicating the one-way travel time (OWTT), in hours, of the cargo tank for the flammable cryogenic liquid to be transported. A cargo tank that is partially unloaded at one or more locations must have additional marking "One-Way-Travel-Time __ hrs. __ psig to __ psig at __ percent filling density," with the second blank filled in with the pressure existing after partial unloading and the third blank filled in with the set-to-discharge pressure of the control valve or pressure relief valve, and the fourth blank with the filling density following partial unloading. Multiple OWTT markings for different pressure levels are permitted. The abbreviation "OWTT" may be used in place of the words "One-way-travel-time" in the marking required by this paragraph.

(1) OWTT is based on the marked rated holding time (MRHT) of the cargo tank for the cryogenic liquid to be transported in the cargo tank. If the MRHT for the flammable cryogenic liquid is not displayed on or adjacent to the specification plate, this MRHT may be derived.

(2) The MRHT is converted to OWTT, in hours, as follows:

(i) For a tank with an MRHT of 72 hours or less,

(ii) For a tank with an MRHT greater than 72 hours,

(3) Each cargo tank motor vehicle used to transport a flammable cryogenic liquid must be examined after each shipment to determine its actual holding time. The record required by ยง 177.840(h) of this subchapter may be used for this determination. If the examination indicates that the actual holding time of the cargo tank, after adjustment to reflect an average ambient temperature of 85 &#xB0;F, is less than 90 percent of the marked rated holding time (MRHT) for the cryogenic liquid marked on the specification plate or adjacent thereto (see ยง 178.338-18(b) of this subchapter), the tank may not be refilled with any flammable cryogenic liquid until it is restored to its marked rated holding time value or it is re-marked with the actual marked rated holding time determined by this examination. If the name of the flammable cryogenic liquid that was transported and its marked rated holding time is not displayed on or adjacent to the specification plate, this requirement may be met by deriving the MRHT of the cargo tank for that flammable cryogenic liquid and comparing that derived MRHT with the actual holding time after adjustment.
