
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.319 Cryogenic liquids in tank cars.
######## Calculated heat transfer rate test.

(ii)The insulation system must be performance tested as prescribed in § 179.400-4 of this subchapter. When the calculated heat transfer rate test is performed, the absolute pressure in the annular space of the loaded tank car may not exceed 75 microns of mercury at the beginning of the test and may not increase more than 25 microns during the 24-hour period. The calculated heat transfer rate in 24 hours may not exceed:

(A) 120 percent of the appropriate standard heat transfer rate specified in § 179.401-1 of this subchapter, for DOT-113A60W and DOT-113C120W tank cars;

(B) 122.808 joules (0.1164 Btu/day/lb.) of inner tank car water capacity, for DOT-113A175W tank cars;

(C) 345.215 joules (0.3272 Btu/day/lb.) of inner tank car water capacity, for DOT-113C60W and 113D60W tank cars; or

(D) 500.09 joules (0.4740 Btu/day/lb.) of inner tank car water capacity, for DOT-113D120W tank cars.

(3) A tank car that fails a test prescribed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section must be removed from hazardous materials service. A tank car removed from hazardous materials service because it failed a test prescribed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section may not be used to transport a hazardous material unless the tank car conforms to all applicable requirements of this subchapter.

(4) Each rupture disc must be replaced every 12 months, and the replacement date must be marked on the car near the pressure relief valve information.

(5) Pressure relief valves and alternate pressure relief valves must be tested every five years. The start-to-discharge pressure and vapor tight pressure requirements for the pressure relief valves must be as specified in § 179.401-1 of this subchapter. The alternate pressure relief device values specified in § 179.401-1 of this subchapter for a DOT-113C120W tank car apply to a DOT-113D120W tank car.
