
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.323 Ethylene oxide.
######## Portable tanks.

(3)DOT 51 portable tanks.

(d) The pressure relief devices must be set to function at 517 kPa (75 psig). Portable tanks fitted with non-reclosing devices made and in use prior to December 31, 1987, may continue to be used in ethylene oxide service.

(e) In determining outage, consideration must be given to the lading temperature and solubility of inert gas padding in ethylene oxide as well as the partial pressure exerted by the gas padding.

(f) Each tank, loaded or empty, must be padded with dry nitrogen or other suitable inert gas of sufficient quantity to render the vapor space of the tank nonflammable up to 41 &#xB0;C (105 &#xB0;F). The gas used for padding must be free of impurities which may cause the ethylene oxide to polymerize, decompose or undergo other violent chemical reaction.

(g) Copper, silver, mercury, magnesium or their alloys may not be used in any part of the tank or appurtenances that are normally in contact with the lading.

(h) Neoprene, natural rubber and asbestos gaskets are prohibited. All packing and gaskets must be made of materials which do not react with or lower the autoignition temperature of the lading.

(i) Each tank must be insulated with cork (at least 10 cm (4 inches) thick), or mineral wool, fiberglass or other suitable insulation material of sufficient thickness so that the thermal conductance at 16 &#xB0;C (60 &#xB0;F) is not more than 0.075 Btu per hour per square foot per degree F. temperature differential. Portable tanks made and in use prior to December 31, 1987 equipped with fusible plugs instead of a pressure relief valve or rupture disc, must have sufficient insulation so that the tank as filled for shipment will not rupture in a fire. The insulation on portable tanks or cargo tank motor vehicles must be protected with a steel jacket at least 2.54 mm (0.100 inch) thick, or as required by the specification.

(j) Tank car tanks built after December 30, 1971 must be equipped with a thermometer well.
