
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.334 Organic phosphates mixed with compressed gas.

Hexaethyl tetraphosphate, parathion, tetraethyl dithio pyrophosphate, tetraethyl pyrophosphate, or other Division 6.1 organic phosphates (including a compound or mixture), may be mixed with a non-flammable compressed gas. This mixture may not contain more than 20 percent by weight of organic phosphate and must be packaged in DOT 3A240, 3AA240, 3B240, 4B240, 4BA240, 4BW240 or UN cylinders meeting all of the following requirements:

(a) Each cylinder may be filled with not more than 5 kg (11.0 lb) of the mixture, to a maximum filling density of not more than 80 percent of the water capacity.

(b) No cylinder may be equipped with an eduction tube or a fusible plug.

(c) No cylinder may be equipped with any valve unless the valve is a type approved by the Associate Administrator.

(d) Cylinders must be overpacked in a box, crate, or other strong outer packaging conforming to the requirements of ยง 173.25 and arranged to protect each valve or other closing device from damage. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, no more than four cylinders may be packed in a strong outer packaging. Each strong outer packaging with its closing device protection must be sufficiently strong to protect all parts of each cylinder from deformation or leakage if the completed package is dropped 1.8 m (6 feet) onto a non-yielding surface, such as concrete or steel, impacting at the packaging's weakest point.

(e) Cylinders may be packed in strong wooden boxes with valves or other closing devices protected from damage, with not more than twelve cylinders in one outside wooden box. An outer fiberboard box may be used when not more than four such cylinders are to be shipped in one packaging. Valves must be adequately protected. Box and valve protection must be of sufficient strength to protect all parts of inner packagings and valves from deformation or breakage resulting from a drop of at least 1.8 m (6 feet) onto a non-yielding surface, such as concrete or steel, impacting at the weakest point.
