
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### § 173.336 Nitrogen dioxide, liquefied, or dinitrogen tetroxide, liquefied.

(a) Nitrogen dioxide, liquefied, or dinitrogen tetroxide, liquefied, must be packaged in specification or UN cylinders as prescribed in § 173.192, except valves are not authorized. UN tubes and MEGCs are not authorized for use. Cylinders must be equipped with a stainless steel valve and valve seat that will not deteriorate in contact with nitrogen dioxide. Each valve opening must be closed by a solid metal plug with tapered thread properly luted to prevent leakage. Transportation in DOT 3AL cylinders is authorized only by highway and rail.

(b) Each UN pressure receptacle must be cleaned in accordance with the requirements of ISO 11621 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Each DOT specification cylinder must be cleaned according to the requirements of GSA Federal Specification RR-C-901D, paragraphs 3.3.1 and 3.3.2 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Cleaning agents equivalent to those specified in RR-C-901D may be used; however, any cleaning agent must not be capable of reacting with oxygen. One cylinder selected at random from a group of 200 or fewer and cleaned at the same time must be tested for oil contamination in accordance with Specification RR-C-901D, paragraph 4.3.2 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) and meet the standard of cleanliness specified therein.
