
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Gases; Preparation and Packaging
####### ยง 173.340 Tear gas devices.

(a) Packagings for tear gas devices must be approved prior to initial transportation by the Associate Administrator.

(b) Tear gas devices may not be assembled with, or packed in the same packaging with, mechanically- or manually-operated firing, igniting, bursting, or other functioning elements unless of a type and design which has been approved by the Associate Administrator.

(c) Tear gas grenades, tear gas candles, and similar devices must be packaged in one of the following packagings conforming to the requirements of part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group II performance level:

(1) In UN 4A, 4B, or 4N metal boxes or UN 4C1, 4C2, 4D, or 4F metal-strapped wooden boxes. Functioning elements not assembled in grenades or devices must be in a separate compartment of these boxes, or in inner or separate outer boxes, UN 4C1, 4C2, 4D, or 4F, and must be packed and cushioned so that they may not come in contact with each other or with the walls of the box during transportation. Not more than 50 tear gas devices and 50 functioning elements must be packed in one box, and the gross weight of the outer box may not exceed 35 kg (77 pounds).

(2) In UN 1A2, 1B2, 1N2 or 1H2 drums. Functioning elements must be packed in a separate inner packaging or compartment. Not more than 24 tear gas devices and 24 functioning elements must be packed in one outer drum, and the gross weight of the drum may not exceed 35 kg (77 pounds).

(3) In a UN 4G fiberboard box with inside tear gas devices meeting Specifications 2P or 2Q. Each inside packaging must be placed in fiberboard tubes fitted with metal ends or a fiber box with suitable padding. Not more than 30 inner packagings must be packed in one outer box, and the gross weight of the outer box may not exceed 16 kg (35 pounds).

(4) In other packagings of a type or design which has been approved by the Associate Administrator.

(d) Tear gas devices may be shipped completely assembled when offered by or consigned to the U.S. Department of Defense, provided the functioning elements are packed so that they cannot accidentally function. Outer packagings must be UN 4A, 4B, or 4N metal boxes or UN 4C1, 4C2, 4D, or 4F metal-strapped wooden boxes.
