
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart I - Class 7 (Radioactive) Materials
####### ยง 173.401 Scope.

(a) This subpart sets forth requirements for the packaging and transportation of Class 7 (radioactive) materials by offerors and carriers subject to this subchapter. The requirements prescribed in this subpart are in addition to, not in place of, other requirements set forth in this subchapter for Class 7 (radioactive) materials and those of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 10 CFR part 71.

(b) This subpart does not apply to:

(1) Class 7 (radioactive) materials produced, used, transported, or stored within an establishment other than during the course of transportation, including storage in transportation.

(2) Class 7 (radioactive) materials that have been implanted or incorporated into, and are still in, a person or live animal for diagnosis or treatment.

(3) Class 7 (radioactive) material that is an integral part of the means of transport.

(4) Natural material and ores containing naturally occurring radionuclides which are either in their natural state, or which have only been processed for purposes other than for extraction of the radionuclides, and which are not intended to be processed for the use of these radionuclides, provided the activity concentration of the material does not exceed 10 times the exempt material activity concentration values specified in ยง 173.436, or determined in accordance with the requirements of ยง 173.433.

(5) Non-radioactive solid objects with radioactive substances present on any surfaces in quantities not exceeding the threshold limits set forth in the definition of contamination in ยง 173.403.
