
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart I - Class 7 (Radioactive) Materials
####### § 173.410 General design requirements.

In addition to the requirements of subparts A and B of this part, each package used for the shipment of Class 7 (radioactive) materials must be designed so that-

(a) The package can be easily handled and properly secured in or on a conveyance during transport.

(b) Each lifting attachment that is a structural part of the package must be designed with a minimum safety factor of three against yielding when used to lift the package in the intended manner, and it must be designed so that failure of any lifting attachment under excessive load would not impair the ability of the package to meet other requirements of this subpart. Any other structural part of the package which could be used to lift the package must be capable of being rendered inoperable for lifting the package during transport or must be designed with strength equivalent to that required for lifting attachments.

(c) The external surface, as far as practicable, will be free from protruding features and will be easily decontaminated.

(d) The outer layer of packaging will avoid, as far as practicable, pockets or crevices where water might collect.

(e) Each feature that is added to the package will not reduce the safety of the package.

(f) The package will be capable of withstanding the effects of any acceleration, vibration or vibration resonance that may arise under normal conditions of transport without any deterioration in the effectiveness of the closing devices on the various receptacles or in the integrity of the package as a whole and without loosening or unintentionally releasing the nuts, bolts, or other securing devices even after repeated use (see §§ 173.24, 173.24a, and 173.24b).

(g) The materials of construction of the packaging and any components or structure will be physically and chemically compatible with each other and with the package contents. The behavior of the packaging and the package contents under irradiation will be taken into account.

(h) All valves through which the package contents could escape will be protected against unauthorized operation.

(i) For transport by air-

(1) The temperature of the accessible surfaces of the package will not exceed 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) at an ambient temperature of 38 &#xB0;C (100 &#xB0;F) with no account taken for insulation;

(2) The integrity of containment will not be impaired if the package is exposed to ambient temperatures ranging from -40 &#xB0;C (-40 &#xB0;F) to + 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F); and

(3) A package containing liquid contents must be capable of withstanding, without leakage, an internal pressure that produces a pressure differential of not less than the maximum normal operating pressure plus 95 kPa (13.8 psi).
