
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart I - Class 7 (Radioactive) Materials
####### ยง 173.469 Tests for special form Class 7 (radioactive) materials.
######## Leaching assessment methods.

(c)(1) For indispersible solid material-

(i) The specimen shall be immersed for seven days in water at ambient temperature. The volume of water to be used in the test shall be sufficient to ensure that at the end of the seven day test period the free volume of the unabsorbed and unreacted water remaining shall be at least 10% of the volume of the solid test sample itself. The water shall have an initial pH of 6-8 and a maximum conductivity of 1 mS/m (10 micromho/cm) at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F).

(ii) The water with specimen must then be heated to a temperature of 50 &#xB0;C +/-5&#xB0; (122 &#xB0;F +/-9&#xB0;) and maintained at this temperature for four hours.

(iii) The activity of the water must then be determined.

(iv) The specimen shall then be kept for at least seven days in still air at not less than 30 &#xB0;C (86 &#xB0;F) and relative humidity not less than 90%.

(v) The specimen must then be immersed in water under the same conditions as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, and the water with specimen must be heated to 50 C +/-5&#xB0; (122 &#xB0;F +/-9&#xB0;) and maintained at that temperature for four hours.

(vi) The activity of the water must then be determined. The activities determined in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section and this paragraph, (c)(1)(vi), may not exceed 2 kilobecquerels (0.05 microcurie).

(2) For encapsulated material-

(i) The specimen shall be immersed in water at ambient temperature. The water shall have an initial pH of 6-8 and a maximum conductivity of 1 mS/m (10 micromho/cm) at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F).

(ii) The water and specimen must be heated to a temperature of 50 &#xB0;C +/-5&#xB0; (122 &#xB0;F +/-9&#xB0;) and maintained at this temperature for four hours.

(iii) The activity of the water must then be determined.

(iv) The specimen shall then be kept for at least seven days in still air at not less than 30 &#xB0;C (86 &#xB0;F) and relative humidity not less than 90%.

(v) The process in paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(iii) of this section must be repeated.

(vi) The activity determined in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section may not exceed 2 kilobecquerels (0.05 microcurie).

(d) A specimen that comprises or simulates Class 7 (radioactive) material contained in a sealed capsule need not be subjected to-

(1) The impact test and the percussion test of this section provided that the mass of the special form material is-

(i) Less than 200 g and it is alternatively subjected to the Class 4 impact test prescribed in ISO 2919 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter), or

(ii) Less than 500 g and it is alternatively subjected to the Class 5 impact test prescribed in ISO 2919 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter); and

(2) The heat test of this section, provided the specimen is alternatively subjected to the Class 6 temperature test specified in the International Organization for Standardization document ISO 2919 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(e) Special form materials that were successfully tested prior to October 1, 2014 in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section in effect prior to October 1, 2014 may continue to be offered for transportation and transported without additional testing under this section.
