
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart I - Class 7 (Radioactive) Materials
####### ยง 173.472 Requirements for exporting DOT Specification Type B and fissile packages.

(a) Any offeror who exports a DOT Specification Type B or fissile material package authorized by ยง 173.416 or ยง 173.417 shall comply with paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.

(b) The shipment must be made in accordance with the conditions of the U.S. Certificate of Competent Authority.

(c) The outside of each package must be durably and legibly marked with the package identification marking indicated in the U.S. Competent Authority Certificate.

(d) Each shipping paper related to the shipment of the package must bear the package identification marking indicated in the U.S. Competent Authority Certificate.

(e) Before export of the package, the offeror shall obtain a U.S. Competent Authority Certificate for that package design, or if one has already been issued, the offeror shall register in writing (including a description of the quality assurance program required by 10 CFR part 71, subpart H, or 49 CFR 173.474 and 173.475) with the U.S. Competent Authority as a user of the certificate. Upon registration, the offeror will be furnished with a copy of the certificate. The offeror shall then submit a copy of the U.S. Competent Authority Certificate applying to that package design to the national competent authority of each country into or through which the package will be transported, unless the offeror has documentary evidence that a copy has already been furnished.
