
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart I - Class 7 (Radioactive) Materials
####### ยง 173.472 Requirements for exporting DOT Specification Type B and fissile packages.
######## ramcert@dot.gov.

(f) Each request for a U.S. Competent Authority Certificate as required by the IAEA regulations must be submitted in writing to the Associate Administrator. The request must be in triplicate and must include a description of the quality assurance program required by 10 CFR part 71, subpart H, or 49 CFR 173.474 and 173.475, and a reproducible 22 cm x 30 cm (8.5&#x2033; x 11&#x2033;) drawing showing the make-up of the package. A copy of the USNRC quality assurance program approval will satisfy the requirement for describing the quality assurance program. The request and accompanying documentation may be sent by mail or other delivery service. Alternatively, the request with any attached supporting documentation submitted in an appropriate format may be sent by facsimile (fax) to (202) 366-3753 or (202) 366-3650, or by electronic mail (e-mail) to "" Each request is considered in the order in which it is received. To allow sufficient time for consideration, requests must be received at least 90 days before the requested effective date.
