
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart I - Class 7 (Radioactive) Materials
####### ยง 173.473 Requirements for foreign-made packages.
######## ramcert@dot.gov.

(2) Register in writing with the U.S. Competent Authority as a user of the package covered by the foreign competent authority certificate and its U.S. revalidation. Alternatively, the registration request with any attached supporting documentation submitted in an appropriate format may be sent by facsimile (fax) to (202) 366-3753 or (202) 366-3650, or by electronic mail (e-mail) to "" If the offeror is requesting the revalidation, registration is automatic; and

(3) Supply to the carrier, upon request, the applicable competent authority certificates. However, the competent authority certificates are not required to accompany the packages to which they apply.

(b) The outside of each package must be durably and legibly marked with the competent authority identification marking indicated on the Competent Authority Certificate and revalidation.

(c) Each shipping paper for a shipment of Class 7 (radioactive) materials must bear a notation of the package identification marking indicated on the competent authority certificate or revalidation.

(d) All requirements of the foreign competent authority certificate and the U.S. Competent Authority revalidation must be fulfilled.
