
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Appendix H to Part 173 - Method of Testing for Sustained Combustibility

The method describes a procedure for determining if the material when heated under the test conditions and exposed to an external source of flame applied in a standard manner sustains combustion.

A metal block with a concave depression (test portion well) is heated to a specified temperature. A specified volume of the material under test is transferred to the well, and its ability to sustain combustion is noted after application and subsequent removal of a standard flame under specified conditions.

A combustibility tester consisting of a block of aluminum alloy or other corrosion-resistant metal of high thermal conductivity is used. The block has a concave well and a pocket drilled to take a thermometer. A small gas jet assembly on a swivel is attached to the block. The handle and gas inlet for the gas jet may be fitted at any convenient angle to the gas jet. A suitable apparatus is shown in Figure 32.5.2.1 of the UN Manual of Test and Criteria (IBR, see (171.7 of this subchapter), and the essential dimensions are given in Figures 32.5.2.1 and 32.5.2.2 of the UN Manual and Tests and Criteria. The following equipment is needed:
