
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 173 - SHIPPERS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPMENTS AND PACKAGINGS
###### Appendix H to Part 173 - Method of Testing for Sustained Combustibility
####### Fuel source,

(f)butane test fuel.

The sample must be representative of the material to be tested and must be supplied and kept in a tightly closed container prior to test. Because of the possibility of loss of volatile constituents, the sample must receive only the minimum treatment necessary to ensure its homogeneity. After removing each test portion, the sample container must be immediately closed tightly to ensure that no volatile components escape from the container; if this closure is incomplete, an entirely new sample must be taken.

Carry out the determination in triplicate.

-Do not carry out the test in a small confined area (for example a glove box) because of the hazard of explosions.

(a) It is essential that the apparatus be set up in a completely draft-free area (see warning) and in the absence of strong light to facilitate observation of flash, flame, etc.

(b) Place the metal block on the hotplate or heat the metal block by other suitable means so that its temperature, as indicated by the thermometer placed in the metal block, is maintained at the specified temperature within a tolerance of +/-1 &#xB0;C. For the appropriate test temperature, see paragraph 5.(h) of this appendix. Correct this temperature for the difference in barometric pressure from the standard atmospheric pressure (101.3 kPa) by raising the test temperature for a higher pressure or lowering the test temperature for a lower pressure by 1.0 &#xB0;C for each 4 kPa difference. Ensure that the top of the metal block is exactly horizontal. Use the gauge to check that the jet is 2.2 mm above the top of the well when in the test position.

(c) Light the butane test fuel with the jet away from the test position (i.e. in the "off" position, away from the well). Adjust the size of the flame so that it is 8 mm to 9 mm high and approximately 5 mm wide.

(d) Using the syringe, take from the sample container at least 2 mL of the sample and rapidly transfer a test portion of 2 mL +/-0.1 mL to the well of the combustibility tester and immediately start the timing device.

(e) After a heating time of 60 seconds (s), by which time the test portion is deemed to have reached its equilibrium temperature, and if the test fluid has not ignited, swing the test flame into the test position over the edge of the pool of liquid. Maintain it in this position for 15 s and then return it to the "off" position while observing the behavior of the test portion. The test flame must remain lighted throughout the test.

(f) For each test observe and record:

(i) whether there is ignition and sustained combustion or flashing, or neither, of the test portion before the test flame is moved into the test position;

(ii) whether the test portion ignites while the test flame is in the test position, and, if so, how long combustion is sustained after the test flame is returned to the "off" position.

(g) If sustained combustion interpreted in accordance with paragraph 6. of this appendix is not found, repeat the complete procedure with new test portions, but with a heating time of 30 s.

(h) If sustained combustion interpreted in accordance with paragraph 6. of this appendix is not found at a test temperature of 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F), repeat the complete procedure with new test portions, but at a test temperature of 75 &#xB0;C (167 &#xB0;F). In the case of a material which has a flash point above 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F) and below 93 &#xB0;C (200 &#xB0;F), if sustained combustion interpreted in accordance with paragraph 6. of this appendix is not found at a test temperature of 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) above its flash point, repeat the complete procedure with new test portions, but at a test temperature of 20 &#xB0;C (36 &#xB0;F) above its flash point.

The material must be assessed either as not sustaining combustion or as sustaining combustion. Sustained combustion must be reported at either of the heating times if one of the following occurs with either of the test portions:

(a) When the test flame is in the "off" position, the test portion ignites and sustains combustion;

(b) The test portion ignites while the test flame is in the test position for 15 s, and sustains combustion for more than 15 s after the test flame has been returned to the "off" position.
