
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 174 - CARRIAGE BY RAIL
###### Subpart C - General Handling and Loading Requirements
####### ยง 174.67 Tank car unloading.
######## General requirements.

(a)(1) Unloading operations must be performed by hazmat employees properly instructed in unloading hazardous materials and made responsible for compliance with this section.

(2) Each hazmat employee who is responsible for unloading must apply the handbrake and block at least one wheel to prevent motion in any direction. If multiple tank cars are coupled together, sufficient hand brakes must be set and wheels blocked to prevent motion in both directions.

(3) Each hazmat employee who is responsible for unloading must secure access to the track to prevent entry by other rail equipment, including motorized service vehicles. This requirement may be satisfied by lining each switch providing access to the unloading area against motion and securing each switch with an effective locking device, or by using derails, portable bumper blocks, or other equipment that provides an equivalent level of safety.

(4) Each hazmat employee who is responsible for unloading must display caution signs on the track or on the tank cars to warn persons approaching the cars from the open end of the track and must be left up until after all closures are secured and the cars are in proper condition for transportation. The caution signs must be of metal or other durable material, rectangular, at 30.48 cm (12 inches) high by 38.10 cm (15 inches) wide, and bear the word "STOP." The word "STOP" must appear in letters at least 10.16 cm (4 inches) high. The letters must be white on a blue background. Additional words, such as "Tank Car Connected" or "Crew at Work," may also appear in white letters under the word "STOP."

(5) The transloading facility operator must maintain written safety procedures (such as those it may already be required to maintain pursuant to the Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements in 29 CFR 1910.119 and 1910.120) in a location where they are immediately available to hazmat employees responsible for the transloading operation.

(6) Before a manhole cover or outlet valve cap is removed from a tank car, the car must be relieved of all interior pressure by cooling the tank with water or by venting the tank by raising the safety valve or opening the dome vent at short intervals. However, if venting to relieve pressure will cause a dangerous amount of vapor to collect outside the car, venting and unloading must be deferred until the pressure is reduced by allowing the car to stand overnight, otherwise cooling the contents, or venting to a closed collection system. These precautions are not necessary when the car is equipped with a manhole cover which hinges inward or with an inner manhole cover which does not have to be removed to unload the car, and when pressure is relieved by piping vapor into a condenser or storage tank.

(b) After the pressure is released, for unloading processes that require the removal of the manhole cover, the seal must be broken and the manhole cover removed as follows:
