
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 174 - CARRIAGE BY RAIL
###### Subpart C - General Handling and Loading Requirements
####### ยง 174.67 Tank car unloading.
######## Interior type.

(3)The screw must be tightened up in the yoke so that the cover is brought up within one-half inch of the closed position.

(d) When unloading through the bottom outlet of a car equipped with an interior manhole type cover, and in each case where unloading is done through the manhole (unless a special cover with a safety vent opening and a tight connection for the discharge outlet is used), the manhole must be protected by asbestos or metal covers against the entrance of sparks or other sources of ignition of vapor, or by being covered and surrounded with wet burlap or similar cloth material. The burlap or other cloth must be kept damp by the replacement or the application of water as needed.

(e) Seals or other substances must not be thrown into the tank and the contents may not be spilled over the car or tank.

(f) The valve rod handle or control in the dome must be operated several times to see that outlet valve in bottom of tank is on its seat before valve cap is removed.

(g) The valve cap, or the reducer when a large outlet is to be used, must be removed with a suitable wrench after the set screws are loosened and a pail must be placed in position to catch any liquid that may be in the outlet chamber. If the valve cap or reducer does not unscrew easily, it may be tapped lightly with a mallet or wooden block in an upward direction. If leakage shows upon starting the removal, the cap or reducer may not be entirely unscrewed. Sufficient threads must be left engaged and sufficient time allowed to permit the controlled escape of any accumulation of liquid in the outlet chamber. If the leakage stops or the rate of leakage diminishes materially, the cap or reducer may be entirely removed. If the initial rate of leakage continues, further efforts must be made to seat the outlet valve (see paragraph (f) of this section). If this fails, the cap or reducer must be screwed up tight and the tank must be unloaded through the dome. If upon removal of the outlet cap the outlet chamber is found to be blocked with frozen liquid or any other matter, the cap must be replaced immediately and a careful examination must be made to determine whether the outlet casting has been cracked. If the obstruction is not frozen liquid, the car must be unloaded through the dome. If the obstruction is frozen liquid and no crack has been found in the outlet casting, the car may, if circumstances require it, be unloaded from the bottom by removing the cap and attaching unloading connections immediately. Before opening the valve inside the tank car with a frozen liquid blockage:

(1) Steam must be applied to the outside of the outlet casting or the outlet casting must be wrapped with burlap or other rags and hot water applied to the wrapped casting to melt the frozen liquid; or

(2) For combustible liquid or Class 3 liquid petroleum distillate fuels, the blockage may be cleared by attaching a fitting to the outlet line and applying nitrogen at a pressure not to exceed 100 psig.

(h) Unloading connections must be securely attached to unloading pipes on the dome or to the bottom discharge outlets before any discharge valves are opened.

(i) Throughout the entire period of unloading and while a tank car has unloading equipment attached, the facility operator must assure that the tank car is:

(1) Attended by a designated hazmat employee who is physically present and who has an unobstructed view of the unloading operation; or
