
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 174 - CARRIAGE BY RAIL
###### Subpart C - General Handling and Loading Requirements
####### ยง 174.67 Tank car unloading.
######## e.g.,

(2) Monitored by a signaling system (video system, sensing equipment, or mechanical equipment) that is observed by a designated hazmat employee located either in the immediate area of the tank car or at a remote location within the facility, such as a control room. The signaling system must-

(i) Provide a level of surveillance equivalent to that provided in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (i); and

(ii) Provide immediate notification to a designated hazmat employee of any system malfunction or other emergency so that, if warranted, responsive actions may be initiated immediately.

(j) Attendance is not required when piping is attached to a top outlet of a tank car, equipped with a protective housing required under ยง 179.100-12 of this subchapter, for discharge of lading under the following conditions:

(1) All valves are tightly closed.

(2) The piping is not connected to hose or other unloading equipment and is fitted with a cap or plug of appropriate material and construction.

(3) The piping extends no more than 15.24 centimeters (6 inches) from the outer edge of the protective housing.

(k) In the absence of the unloader, a tank car may stand with unloading connections attached when no product is being transferred under the following conditions:

(1) The facility operator must designate a hazmat employee responsible for on-site monitoring of the transfer facility. The designated hazmat employee must be made familiar with the nature and properties of the product contained in the tank car; procedures to be followed in the event of an emergency; and, in the event of an emergency, have the ability and authority to take responsible actions.

(2) When a signaling system is used in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section, the system must be capable of alerting the designated hazmat employee in the event of an emergency and providing immediate notification of any monitoring system malfunction. If the monitoring system does not have self-monitoring capability, the designated hazmat employee must check the monitoring system hourly for proper operation.

(3) The tank car and facility shutoff valves must be secured in the closed position.

(4) Brakes must be set and wheels locked in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(5) Access to the track must be secured in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(l) As soon as a tank car is completely unloaded, all valves must be made tight by the use of a bar, wrench or other suitable tool, the unloading connections must be removed and all other closures made tight.

(m) Railroad defect cards may not be removed.

(n) If oil or gasoline has been spilled on the ground around connections, it must be covered with fresh, dry sand or dirt.

(o) All tools and implements used in connection with unloading must be kept free of oil, dirt, and grit.
