
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 175 - CARRIAGE BY AIRCRAFT
###### Subpart A - General Information and Regulations
####### ยง 175.10 Exceptions for passengers, crewmembers, and air operators.
######## e.g.,

(3) Medical devices that contain radioactive materials (cardiac pacemaker) implanted or externally fitted in humans or animals and radiopharmaceuticals that have been injected or ingested as the result of medical treatment.

(4) Alcoholic beverages containing:

(i) Not more than 24% alcohol by volume; or

(ii) More than 24% and not more than 70% alcohol by volume when in unopened retail packagings not exceeding 5 liters (1.3 gallons) carried in carry-on or checked baggage, with a total net quantity per person of 5 liters (1.3) gallons for such beverages.

(5) Perfumes and colognes purchased through duty-free sales and carried on one's person or in carry-on baggage.

(6) Hair curlers (curling irons) containing a hydrocarbon gas such as butane, no more than one per person, in carry-on baggage only. The safety cover must be securely fitted over the heating element. Gas refills for such curlers are not permitted in carry-on or checked baggage.

(7) A small medical or clinical mercury thermometer for personal use, when carried in a protective case in checked baggage.

(8) Small arms ammunition for personal use carried by a crewmember or passenger in checked baggage only, if securely packed in boxes or other packagings specifically designed to carry small amounts of ammunition. Ammunition clips and magazines must also be securely boxed. This paragraph does not apply to persons traveling under the provisions of 49 CFR 1544.219.

(9) One self-defense spray (see ยง 171.8 of this subchapter), not exceeding 118 mL (4 fluid ounces) by volume, that incorporates a positive means to prevent accidental discharge may be carried in checked baggage only.

(10) Dry ice (carbon dioxide, solid), with the approval of the operator:

(i) Quantities may not exceed 2.5 kg (5.5 pounds) per person when used to pack perishables not subject to the HMR. The package must permit the release of carbon dioxide gas; and

(ii) When carried in checked baggage, each package is marked "DRY ICE" or "CARBON DIOXIDE, SOLID," and marked with the net weight of dry ice or an indication the net weight is 2.5 kg (5.5 pounds) or less.

(11) No more than two self-inflating personal safety devices, intended to be worn by a person such as a life jacket or vest, fitted with no more than two small gas cartridges per device (containing no hazardous material other than a Division 2.2 gas) for inflation purposes plus no more than two spare cartridges per device. The personal safety device(s) and spare cartridges may be carried in carry-on or checked baggage, with the approval of the aircraft operator, and must be packed in such a manner that they cannot be accidently activated.

(12) Small compressed gas cylinders of Division 2.2 (containing no hazardous material other than a Division 2.2 gas) worn by the passenger for the operation of mechanical limbs and, in carry-on and checked baggage, spare cylinders of a similar size for the same purpose in sufficient quantities to ensure an adequate supply for the duration of the journey.

(13) A mercury barometer or thermometer carried as carry-on baggage, by a representative of a government weather bureau or similar official agency, provided that individual advises the operator of the presence of the barometer or thermometer in his baggage. The barometer or thermometer must be packaged in a strong packaging having a sealed inner liner or bag of strong, leak proof and puncture-resistant material impervious to mercury, which will prevent the escape of mercury from the package in any position.
