
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 175 - CARRIAGE BY AIRCRAFT
###### Subpart A - General Information and Regulations
####### ยง 175.10 Exceptions for passengers, crewmembers, and air operators.
######## e.g.,

(i) For a lithium metal battery, the lithium content must not exceed 2 grams. With the approval of the operator, portable medical electronic devices (automated external defibrillators (AED), nebulizer, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), etc.) may contain lithium metal batteries exceeding 2 grams, but not exceeding 8 grams. With the approval of the operator, no more than two lithium metal batteries each exceeding 2 grams, but not exceeding 8 grams, may be carried as spare batteries for portable medical electronic devices in carry-on baggage and must be carried with the portable medical electronic device the spare batteries are intended to operate;

(ii) For a lithium ion battery, the Watt-hour rating must not exceed 100 Wh. With the approval of the operator, portable electronic devices may contain lithium ion batteries exceeding 100 Wh, but not exceeding 160 Wh and no more than two individually protected lithium ion batteries each exceeding 100 Wh, but not exceeding 160 Wh, may be carried per person as spare batteries in carry-on baggage.

(iii) For a non-spillable battery, the battery and equipment must conform to ยง 173.159a(d). Each battery must not exceed a voltage greater than 12 volts and a watt-hour rating of not more than 100 Wh. No more than two individually protected spare batteries may be carried. Such equipment and spare batteries must be carried in checked or carry-on baggage.

(iv) Articles containing lithium metal or lithium ion cells or batteries the primary purpose of which is to provide power to another device must be carried as spare batteries in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph.
