
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 175 - CARRIAGE BY AIRCRAFT
###### Subpart A - General Information and Regulations
####### § 175.10 Exceptions for passengers, crewmembers, and air operators.
######## e.g.,

(20) Fuel cells used to power portable electronic devices (cameras, cellular phones, laptop computers and camcorders) and spare fuel cell cartridges when transported personal use under the following conditions:

(i) Fuel cells and fuel cell cartridges may contain only Division 2.1 liquefied flammable gas, or hydrogen in a metal hydride, Class 3 flammable liquid (including methanol), Division 4.3 water-reactive material, or Class 8 corrosive material;

(ii) The quantity of fuel in any fuel cell or fuel cell cartridge may not exceed:

(A) 200 mL (6.76 ounces) for liquids;

(B) 120 mL (4 fluid ounces) for liquefied gases in non-metallic fuel cell cartridges, or 200 mL (6.76 ounces) for liquefied gases in metal fuel cell cartridges;

(C) 200 g (7 ounces) for solids; or

(D) For hydrogen in metal hydride, the fuel cell cartridges must have a water capacity of 120 mL (4 fluid ounces) or less;

(iii) No more than two spare fuel cell cartridges may be carried by a passenger or crew member as follows:

(A) Fuel cell cartridges containing Class 3 flammable liquid (including methanol) and Class 8 corrosive material in carry-on or checked baggage; and

(B) Division 2.1 liquefied flammable gas or hydrogen in a metal hydride and Division 4.3 water-reactive material in carry-on baggage only;

(iv) Fuel cells containing fuel are permitted in carry-on baggage only;

(v) Fuel cell cartridges containing hydrogen in a metal hydride must meet the requirements in § 173.230(d) of this subchapter;

(vi) Refueling of a fuel cell aboard an aircraft is not permitted except that the installation of a spare cartridge is allowed;

(vii) Each fuel cell and fuel cell cartridge must conform to IEC 62282-6-100 and IEC 62282-6-100 Amend. 1 (IBR; see § 171.7 of this subchapter) and must be marked with a manufacturer's certification that it conforms to the specification. In addition, each fuel cell cartridge must be marked with the maximum quantity and type of fuel in the cartridge;

(viii) Interaction between fuel cells and integrated batteries in a device must conform to IEC 62282-6-100 and IEC 62282-6-100 Amend. 1 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Fuel cells whose sole function is to charge a battery in the device are not permitted; and

(ix) Fuel cells must be of a type that will not charge batteries when the consumer electronic device is not in use and must be durably marked by the manufacturer with the wording: "APPROVED FOR CARRIAGE IN AIRCRAFT CABIN ONLY" to indicate that the fuel cell meets this requirement.

(21) Permeation devices for calibrating air quality monitoring equipment when carried in checked baggage provided the devices are constructed and packaged in accordance with § 173.175.

(22) An internal combustion or fuel cell engine or a machine or apparatus containing an internal combustion or fuel cell engine when carried as checked baggage, provided-

(i) The engine contains no liquid or gaseous fuel. An engine may be considered as not containing fuel when the engine components and any fuel lines have been completed drained, sufficiently cleaned of residue, and purged of vapors to remove any potential hazard and the engine when held in any orientation will not release any liquid fuel;

(ii) The fuel tank contains no liquid or gaseous fuel. A fuel tank may be considered as not containing fuel when the fuel tank and the fuel lines have been completed drained, sufficiently cleaned of residue, and purged of vapors to remove any potential hazard;

(iii) It is not equipped with a wet battery (including a non-spillable battery), a sodium battery or a lithium battery; and

(iv) It contains no other hazardous materials subject to the requirements of this subchapter.

(23) Non-infectious specimens in preservative solutions transported in accordance with § 173.4b(b) of this subchapter.

(24) Insulated packagings containing refrigerated liquid nitrogen when carried in checked or carry-on baggage in accordance with the ICAO Technical Instructions (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), Packing Instruction 202, the packaging specifications in part 6, chapter 5, and special provision A152.

(25) Small cartridges fitted into or securely packed with devices with no more than four small cartridges of carbon dioxide or other suitable gas in Division 2.2, without subsidiary risk with the approval of the operator. The water capacity of each cartridge must not exceed 50 mL (equivalent to a 28 g cartridge).

(26) Baggage equipped with lithium battery(ies) must be carried as carry-on baggage unless the battery(ies) is removed from the baggage. Removed battery(ies) must be carried in accordance with the provision for spare batteries prescribed in paragraph (a)(18) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to baggage equipped with lithium batteries not exceeding:

(i) For lithium metal batteries, a lithium content of 0.3 grams; or

(ii) For lithium ion batteries, a Watt-hour rating of 2.7 Wh.

(b) The exceptions provided in paragraph (a) of this section also apply to aircraft operators when transporting passenger or crewmember baggage that has been separated from the passenger or crewmember, including transfer to another carrier for transport to its final destination.

(c) The requirements to submit incident reports as required under §§ 171.15 and 171.16 of this subchapter apply to the air carrier.
