
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 175 - CARRIAGE BY AIRCRAFT
###### Subpart A - General Information and Regulations
####### ยง 175.33 Shipping paper and information to the pilot-in-command.
######## For information to the pilot-in-command.

(2)Retain for 90 days at the airport of departure or the operator's principal place of business.

(3) Have the shipping paper and information to the pilot-in-command readily accessible at the airport of departure and the intended airport of arrival for the duration of the flight.

(4) Make available, upon request, to an authorized official of a Federal, State, or local government agency (which includes emergency responders) at reasonable times and locations, the documents or information required to be retained by this paragraph. In the event of a reportable incident, as defined in ยง 171.15 of this subchapter, the aircraft operator must make immediately available to an authorized official of a Federal, State, or local government agency (which includes emergency responders), the documents or information required to be retained by this paragraph (c).

(5) Specify the personnel to be provided the information required by paragraph (a) of this section in their operations manual and/or other appropriate manuals.

(d) The information required by paragraph (a) of this section and the shipping paper required by (c)(1) of this section may be combined into one document.
