
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 175 - CARRIAGE BY AIRCRAFT
###### Subpart B - Loading, Unloading and Handling
####### ยง 175.75 Quantity limitations and cargo location.
######## Hazardous materials stowage.

(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no person may carry a hazardous material in the cabin of a passenger-carrying aircraft or on the flight deck of any aircraft, and the hazardous material must be located in a place that is inaccessible to persons other than crew members.

(2) Hazardous materials may be carried in a main deck cargo compartment of a passenger aircraft provided that the compartment is inaccessible to passengers and that it meets all certification requirements for: a Class B aircraft cargo compartment in 14 CFR 25.857(b); or a Class C aircraft cargo compartment in 14 CFR 25.857(c).

(3) A package bearing a "KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT" handling marking must be protected from direct sunshine and stored in a cool and ventilated place, away from sources of heat.

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, a package containing a hazardous material acceptable for cargo-only aircraft must be loaded in an accessible manner.

(c) For each package containing a hazardous material acceptable for carriage aboard passenger-carrying aircraft, no more than 25 kg (55 pounds) net weight of hazardous material may be loaded in an inaccessible manner. In addition to the 25 kg limitation, an additional 75 kg (165 pounds) net weight of Division 2.2 (non-flammable compressed gas) may be loaded in an inaccessible manner. The requirements of this paragraph (c) do not apply to Class 9, articles of Identification Numbers UN0012, UN0014, or UN0055 also meeting the requirements of ยง 173.63(b) of this subchapter, articles of Identification Numbers UN3528 or UN3529, and Limited or Excepted Quantity material.

(d) For the purposes of this section-
