
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart A - General
####### § 176.11 Exceptions.

(a) A hazardous material may be offered and accepted for transport by vessel when in conformance with the IMDG Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in subpart C of part 171 of this subchapter.The requirements of §§ 176.83, 176.84, and 176.112 through 176.174 are not applicable to shipments of Class 1 (explosive) materials made in accordance with the IMDG Code. A hazardous material which conforms to the provisions of this paragraph (a) is not subject to the requirement specified in § 172.201(d) of this subchapter for an emergency response telephone number, when transportation of the hazardous material originates and terminates outside the United States and the hazardous material-

(1) Is not offloaded from the vessel; or

(2) Is offloaded between ocean vessels at a U.S. port facility without being transported by public highway.

(b) Canadian shipments and packages may be transported by vessel if they are transported in accordance with this subchapter. (See subparts B and C of part 171 of this subchapter.)

(c) The requirements of this subchapter governing the transportation of combustible liquids do not apply to the transportation of combustible liquids in non-bulk (see definitions in § 171.8 of this subchapter) packages on board vessels.

(d) Transport vehicles, containing hazardous materials loaded in accordance with specific requirements of this subchapter applicable to such vehicles, may be transported on board a ferry vessel or carfloat, subject to the applicable requirements specified in §§ 176.76, 176.100, and subpart E of this part.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to hazardous materials, including certain hazardous wastes and hazardous substances as defined in § 171.8 of this subchapter, which are not subject to the requirements of the IMDG Code.

(g) The requirements of this subchapter do not apply to atmospheric gases used in a refrigeration system.
