
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart B - General Operating Requirements
####### § 176.30 Dangerous cargo manifest.

(a) The carrier, its agents, and any person designated for this purpose by the carrier or agents must prepare a dangerous cargo manifest, list, or stowage plan. This document may not include a material that is not subject to the requirements of the Hazardous Material Regulations (49 CFR parts 171 through 180) or the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code (IMDG Code) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). This document must be kept on or near the vessel's bridge, except when the vessel is docked in a United States port. When the vessel is docked in a United States port, this document may be kept in the vessel's cargo office or another location designated by the master of the vessel provided that a sign is placed beside the designated holder on or near the vessel's bridge indicating the location of the dangerous cargo manifest, list, or stowage plan. This document must always be in a location that is readily accessible to emergency response and enforcement personnel. It must contain the following information:

(1) Name of vessel and official number. (If the vessel has no official number, the international radio call sign must be substituted.);

(2) Nationality of vessel;

(3) Shipping name and identification number of each hazardous material on board as listed in § 172.101 of this subchapter or as listed in the IMDG Code and an emergency response telephone number as prescribed in subpart G of part 172 of this subchapter.

(4) The number and description of packages (barrels, drums, cylinders, boxes, etc.) and gross weight for each type of package;

(5) Classification of the hazardous material in accordance with either:

(i) The Hazardous Materials Table, the § 172.101 table; or

(ii) The IMDG Code.

(6) Any additional description required by § 172.203 of this subchapter.

(7) Stowage location of the hazardous material on board the vessel.

(8) In the case of a vessel used for the storage of explosives or other hazardous materials, the following additional information is required:

(i) Name and address of vessel's owner;

(ii) Location of vessel's mooring;

(iii) Name of person in charge of vessel;

(iv) Name and address of the owner of the cargo; and

(v) A complete record, by time intervals of one week, of all receipts and disbursements of hazardous materials. The name and address of the consignor must be shown against all receipts and the name and address of the consignee against all deliveries.

(9) For excepted packages containing Class 7 materials only the following information is required:

(i) The UN identification number for the material preceded by the letters "UN";

(ii) The name and address of the consignor and the consignee; and

(iii) The stowage location of the hazardous material on board the vessel.

(b) The hazardous material information on the dangerous cargo manifest must be the same as the information furnished by the shipper on the shipping order or other shipping paper, except that the IMO "correct technical name" and the IMO class may be indicated on the manifest as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(5) of this section. The person who supervises the preparation of the manifest, list, or stowage plan shall ensure that the information is correctly transcribed, and shall certify to the truth and accuracy of this information to the best of his knowledge and belief by his signature and notation of the date prepared.

(c) The carrier and its agents shall insure that the master, or a licensed deck officer designated by the master and attached to the vessel, or in the case of a barge, the person in charge of the barge, acknowledges the correctness of the dangerous cargo manifest, list or stowage plan by his signature.

(d) For barges, manned or unmanned, the requirements of this section apply except for the following:

(1) In the case of a manned barge, the person in charge of the barge shall prepare the dangerous cargo manifest.

(2) In the case of an unmanned barge, the person responsible for loading the barge is responsible for the preparation of a dangerous cargo manifest, list, or stowage plan and must designate an individual for that purpose.

(3) For all barges, manned or unmanned, the dangerous cargo manifest must be on board the barge in a readily accessible location and a copy must be furnished to the person in charge of the towing vessel.

(e) Each carrier who transports or stores hazardous materials on a vessel shall retain a copy of the dangerous cargo manifest, list, or stowage plan for at least one year, and shall make that document available for inspection in accordance with § 176.36(b) of this subchapter.
