
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart C - General Handling and Stowage
####### ยง 176.74 On deck stowage of break-bulk hazardous materials.

(a) Packages containing hazardous materials must be secured by enclosing in boxes, cribs or cradles and proper lashing by use of wire rope, strapping or other means, including shoring and bracing, or both. Lashing of deck cargo is permitted if eye pads are used to attach the lashings. Lashings may not be secured to guard rails. Bulky articles must be shored.

(b) A packaging susceptible to weather or water damage must be protected so that it will not be exposed to the weather or to sea water.

(c) Not more than fifty percent of the total open deck area should be used for stowage of hazardous materials (except Class 9 (miscellaneous hazardous material).

(d) Fireplugs, hoses, sounding pipes, and access to these must be free and clear of all cargo.

(e) Crew and passenger spaces and areas set aside for the crew's use may not be used to stow any hazardous material.

(f) A hazardous material may not be stowed within a horizontal distance of 25 feet of an operating or embarkation point of a lifeboat.

(g) Hazardous materials must be stowed to permit safe access to the crew's quarters and to all parts of the deck required in navigation and necessary working of the vessel.

(h) When runways for use of the crew are built over stowed hazardous materials, they must be constructed and fitted with rails and lifelines so as to afford complete protection to the crew when in use.
