
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart C - General Handling and Stowage
####### § 176.76 Transport vehicles, freight containers, and portable tanks containing hazardous materials.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, hazardous materials authorized to be transported by vessel may be carried on board a vessel in a transport vehicle or freight container, subject to the following conditions (see additional requirements concerning the transport of Class 1 (explosive) materials in §§ 176.168 through 176.172 of this subchapter):

(1) The material must be in proper condition for transportation according to the requirements of this subchapter;

(2) All packages in the transport vehicle or freight container must be secured to prevent shifting in any direction. Vertical restraint is not required if the shape of the packages, loading pattern, and horizontal restraint preclude vertical shifting of the load within the freight container or transport vehicle;

(3) Bulkheads made of dunnage which extend to the level of the cargo must be provided unless the packages are stowed flush with the sides or ends;

(4) Dunnage must be secured to the floor when the cargo consists of dense materials or heavy packages;

(5) Each package marked in accordance with § 172.312(a)(2) of this subchapter must be stowed as marked;

(6) Any slack spaces between packages must be filled with dunnage;

(7) The weight in a container must be distributed throughout as evenly as possible and the maximum permissible weight must not be exceeded;

(8) Adjacent levels of baggaged and baled cargo must be stowed in alternate directions so that each tier binds the tier above and below it;

(9) When security devices, beacons or other tracking or monitoring equipment are used, they must be securely installed and must be of a certified safe type for the hazardous materials that will be carried within the freight container or transport vehicle in which such as device or equipment is installed.

(10) The lading must be contained entirely within the freight container or vehicle body without overhang or projection except that oversized machinery such as tractors or vehicles with batteries attached may overhang or project outside the intermodal container provided all of that portion of the lading that consists of hazardous materials is contained entirely within the freight container. No open-bed container or vehicle is permitted to carry hazardous materials unless it is equipped with a means of properly securing the lading.

(11) When packages are secured with banding or straps, these restraints must not be over-tightened to cause damage or deformation of the packages or the securing points (such as D-rings) within the freight container or transport vehicle.

(b) A transport vehicle containing hazardous materials may be carried only on board a trailership, trainship, ferry vessel or car float.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) A transport vehicle or freight container equipped with heating or refrigeration equipment may be operated on board a vessel. However, the equipment may not be operated in any hold or compartment in which any flammable liquid or gas is stowed. Any heating or air conditioning equipment having a fuel tank containing a flammable liquid or gas may be stowed only "on deck". Equipment electrically powered and designed to operate within an environment containing flammable vapors may be operated below deck in a hold or compartment containing a flammable liquid or gas.

(e) A transport vehicle, loaded with any hazardous material which is required to be stowed "on deck" by § 172.101 of this subchapter, may be stowed one deck below the weather deck when transported on a trainship or trailership which is unable to provide "on deck" stowage because of the vessel's design. Otherwise, the transport vehicle or container must be transported "on deck."

(f) A hazardous material may be carried on board a vessel in a portable tank subject to the following conditions:

(1) Small passenger vessels of 100 gross tons, or less, may carry a hazardous material in a portable tank only when 16 or less passengers are on board and only when specifically authorized by the Officer-in-Charge, Marine Inspection, by endorsement of the vessel's Certificate of Inspection.

(2) Portable tanks containing flammable liquids or gases, combustible liquids with flashpoints below 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F). that are insoluble in water, or organic peroxides, spontaneously combustible materials, or water reactive materials must be stowed on deck irrespective of the stowage authorized in § 172.101 of this subchapter. Portable tanks containing hazardous materials not restricted to on deck stowage by the previous sentence must be stowed in accordance with the requirements specified in § 172.101 of this subchapter.

(3) Aluminum, magnesium, and their alloys are specifically prohibited as materials of construction of portable tanks.
