
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart C - General Handling and Stowage
####### ยง 176.76 Transport vehicles, freight containers, and portable tanks containing hazardous materials.
######## Cryogenic liquids.

(g)For shipment of cryogenic liquids on board a vessel the packaging must be designed and filled so that:

(1) Any cryogenic liquid being transported in a cargo tank, regardless of the pressure in the package, must be contained in a steel jacketed Specification MC-338 (ยง 178.338 of this subchapter) insulated cargo tank.

(2) Any valve or fitting with moving or abrading parts that may come in contact with any cryogenic liquid may not be made of aluminum.

(3) For a flammable cryogenic liquid being transported in a cargo tank, the elapsed time between the loading of the cargo tank and the subsequent unloading of the cargo tank at its final destination may not exceed the marked rated holding time (MRHT) of the cargo tank for the cryogenic liquid being transported, which must be displayed on or adjacent to the specification plate.

(4) Portable tanks, cargo tanks, and tank cars containing cryogenic liquids must be stowed "on deck" regardless of the stowage authorized in ยง 172.101 of this subchapter. Cargo tanks or tank cars containing cryogenic liquids may be stowed one deck below the weather deck when transported on a trailership or trainship that is unable to provide "on deck" stowage because of the vessel's design. Tank cars must be Class DOT-113 or AAR-204W tank cars.

(h) A fumigated cargo transport unit may only be transported on board a vessel subject to the following conditions and limitations:

(1) The fumigated cargo transport unit may be placed on board a vessel only if at least 24 hours have elapsed since the unit was last fumigated;

(2) The fumigated cargo transport unit is accompanied by a document showing the date of fumigation and the type and amount of fumigant used;

(3) Prior to loading, the master is informed of the intended placement of the fumigated cargo transport unit on board the vessel and the information provided on the accompanying document;

(4) Equipment that is capable of detecting the fumigant and instructions for the equipment's use is provided on the vessel;

(5) The fumigated cargo transport unit must be stowed at least 5 m from any opening to accommodation spaces;

(6) Fumigated cargo transport units may only be transported on deck on vessels carrying more than 25 passengers; and

(7) Fumigants may not be added to cargo transport units while on board a vessel.

(i) A cargo transport unit packed or loaded with flammable gas or flammable liquid having a flashpoint below + 23 &#xB0;C transported on deck must be stowed "away from" possible sources of ignition. In the case of container ships, a distance equivalent to one container space athwartships away from possible sources of ignition applied in any direction will satisfy this requirement.
