
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart C - General Handling and Stowage
####### ยง 176.78 Use of power-operated industrial trucks on board vessels.
######## Description of designations.

(c)The recognized testing laboratory type designations are as follows:

(1) An "E" designated unit is an electrically-powered unit that has minimum acceptable safeguards against inherent fire hazards.

(2) An "EE" designated unit is an electrically-powered unit that has, in addition to all the requirements for the "E" unit, the electric motor and all other electrical equipment completely enclosed.

(3) An "EX" designated unit is an electrically-powered unit that differs from the "E" and "EE" unit in that the electrical fittings and equipment are so designed, constructed, and assembled that the unit may be used in certain atmospheres containing flammable vapors or dusts.

(4) A "G" designated unit is a gasoline-powered unit having minimum acceptable safeguards against inherent fire hazards.

(5) A "GS" designated unit is a gasoline-powered unit that is provided with additional safeguards to the exhaust, fuel, and electrical systems.

(6) An "LP" designated unit is similar to a "G" unit except that it is powered by liquefied petroleum gas instead of gasoline.

(7) An "LPS" designated unit is a unit similar to a "GS" unit except that liquefied petroleum gas is used for fuel instead of gasoline.

(8) A "D" designated unit is a unit similar to a "G" unit except that it is powered by a diesel engine instead of a gasoline engine.

(9) A "DS" designated unit is a unit powered by a diesel engine provided with additional safeguards to the exhaust, fuel, and electrical systems.
