
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart D - General Segregation Requirements
####### ยง 176.83 Segregation.
######## General.

(a)(1) The requirements of this section apply to all cargo spaces on deck or under deck of all types of vessels, and to all cargo transport units.

(2) Segregation is obtained by maintaining certain distances between incompatible hazardous materials or by requiring the presence of one or more steel bulkheads or decks between them or a combination thereof. Intervening spaces between such hazardous materials may be filled with other cargo which is not incompatible with the hazardous materials.

(3) The general requirements for segregation between the various classes of dangerous goods are shown in the segregation table. In addition to these general requirements, there may be a need to segregate a particular material from other materials which would contribute to its hazard. Such segregation requirements are indicated by code numbers in Column 10B of the ยง 172.101 Table.

(4) Segregation is not required:

(i) Between hazardous materials of different classes which comprise the same substance but vary only in their water content (for example, sodium sulfide in Division 4.2 or Class 8) or quantity for Class 7 materials; or

(ii) Between hazardous materials of different classes which comprise a group of substances that do not react dangerously with each other. The following materials are grouped by compatibility:
