
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart D - General Segregation Requirements
####### ยง 176.83 Segregation.
######## Provisions for segregation groups:

(m)(1) For the purpose of segregation, materials having certain similar chemical properties have been grouped together in segregation groups. The segregation groups (such as "acids", "chlorates", "permanganates") and the entries allocated to each of these groups include the substances identified in section 3.1.4 of the IMDG Code (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). When column (10B) of the ยง 172.101 Table refers to a numbered stowage provision set forth in ยง 176.84(b) such as "Stow 'away from' acids", that particular stowage/segregation requirement applies to all the materials allocated to the respective segregation group.

(2) Not all hazardous materials falling within a segregation group are listed by name in the regulations. These materials are shipped under "n.o.s." entries. Although these "n.o.s." entries are not listed themselves in the above groups, the person who offers a hazardous material for transportation must decide whether allocation under a segregation group is appropriate.

(3) The segregation groups described above do not address materials that fall outside the classification criteria of the hazardous materials regulations, although it is recognized that some non-hazardous materials have certain chemical properties similar to hazardous materials listed in the segregation groups. A person who offers a hazardous material for transportation or the person responsible for packing the materials into a cargo transport unit who does have knowledge of the chemical properties of such non-hazardous materials may identify a relevant segregation group and apply the segregation requirements for that segregation group.
