
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart E - Special Requirements for Transport Vehicles Loaded With Hazardous Materials and Transported on Board Ferry Vessels
####### ยง 176.93 Vehicles having refrigerating or heating equipment.

(a) A transport vehicle fitted with refrigerating or heating equipment using a flammable liquid or Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material, or diesel oil as fuel, may be transported on a ferry vessel. However, the refrigerating or heating equipment may not be operated while the vehicle is on the vessel, unless the equipment complies with the following requirements:

(1) The installation is rigidly mounted and free of any motion other than normal vibration in operation;

(2) An easily accessible shutoff control is fitted to the fuel and electrical supply of the refrigerating or heating equipment; and

(3) The fuel storage tank, the fuel lines, the carburetor and any other fuel devices are tight and show no signs of leakage.

(b) If the vehicle operator desires to operate the refrigerating or heating equipment while on the vessel and the equipment is not fitted with automatic starting and stopping devices, it must be started before the vehicle is taken on board. It may continue in operation while the vehicle is on the vessel, but if the motor stops it may not be restarted.

(c) In the case of a ferry vessel on a voyage exceeding 30 minutes' duration, stowage must be provided for transport vehicles having refrigerating or heating equipment operated by internal combustion engines which will permit ready diffusion of exhaust gases to the open air. Passenger vehicles may not be stowed in a position adjacent to vehicles operating internal combustion motors which expose the occupants of the passenger vehicles to excessive concentrations of exhaust fumes from such motors.

(d) A transport vehicle containing solid carbon dioxide as a refrigerant may be transported on a ferry vessel only if it is stowed in a well ventilated location.
