
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart G - Detailed Requirements for Class 1 (Explosive) Materials
####### Stowage
######## ยง 176.116 General stowage conditions for Class 1 (explosive) materials.
######### Separation from accommodation spaces and machinery spaces:

(e)(1) Class 1 (explosive) materials must be stowed as far away as practicable from any accommodation spaces or any machinery space and may not be stowed directly above or below such a space. The requirements in paragraphs (e)(2) through (e)(4) of this section are minimum requirements in addition to the applicable requirements of 46 CFR chapter I. Where the requirements of this subpart are less stringent than those of 46 CFR chapter I, the 46 CFR chapter I requirements must be satisfied for ships to which they are applicable.

(2) There must be a permanent A Class steel bulkhead between any accommodation space and any compartment containing Class 1 (explosive) materials. Division 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, or 1.5 materials may not be stowed within 3 m (10 feet) of this bulkhead; in the decks immediately above or below an accommodation space they must be stowed at least 3 m (10 feet) from the line of this bulkhead projected vertically.

(3) There must be a permanent A Class steel bulkhead between a compartment containing Class 1 (explosive) materials and any machinery space. Class 1 (explosive) materials, except those in Division 1.4 (explosive), may not be stowed within 3 m (10 feet) of this bulkhead; and in the decks above or below the machinery space they must be stowed at least 3 m (10 feet) from the line of this bulkhead projected vertically. In addition to this separation, there must be insulation to Class A60 standard as defined in 46 CFR 72.05-10(c)(1) if the machinery space is one of Category 'A' unless the only Class 1 (explosive) materials carried are in Division 1.4S (explosive).

(4) Where Class 1 (explosive) materials are stowed away from bulkheads bounding any accommodation space or machinery space, the intervening space may be filled with cargo that is not readily combustible.

(f) [Reserved]
