
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart G - Detailed Requirements for Class 1 (Explosive) Materials
####### Stowage
######## ยง 176.118 Electrical requirement.

(a) Electrical equipment and cables installed in compartments in which Class 1 (explosive) materials are stowed which do not need to be energized during the voyage must be isolated from the supply so that no part of the circuit within the compartment is energized. The method of isolation may be by withdrawal of fuses, opening of switches or circuit breakers, or disconnection from bus bars. The means, or access to the means, of disconnection/reconnection must be secured by a locked padlock under the control of a responsible person.

(b) Electrical equipment and cables in a cargo space in which Class 1 (explosive) materials are stowed which are energized during the voyage for the safe operation of the ship must meet the requirements of subchapter J of 46 CFR chapter I. Before Class 1 (explosive) materials are loaded aboard a vessel, all cables must be tested by a skilled person to ensure that they are safe and to determine satisfactory grounding, insulation resistance, and continuity of the cable cores, metal sheathing or armoring.

(c) All Class 1 (explosive) materials must be stowed in a safe position relative to electrical equipment and cables. Additional physical protection must be provided where necessary to minimize possible damage to the electrical equipment or cables, especially during loading and unloading.

(d) Cable joints in the compartments must be enclosed in metal-clad junction boxes.

(e) All lighting equipment and cables must be of the fixed type, and must meet the relevant inspection, test, and installation standards of 46 CFR chapter I, subchapter J.
