
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart G - Detailed Requirements for Class 1 (Explosive) Materials
####### Segregation
######## ยง 176.144 Segregation of Class 1 (explosive) materials.

(a) Except as provided in ยง 176.145 of this subchapter, stowage of Class 1 (explosive) materials within the same compartment, magazine, or cargo transport unit is subject to provisions contained in table 176.144(a).

(b) Where Class 1 (explosive) materials of different compatibility groups are allowed to be stowed in the same compartment, magazine, or cargo transport unit, the stowage arrangements must conform to the most stringent requirements for the entire load.

(c) Where a mixed load of Class 1 (explosive) materials of different hazard divisions and/or stowage arrangements is carried within a compartment, magazine, or cargo transport unit, the entire load must be treated as belonging to the hazard division having the greatest hazard. (For example, if a load of Division 1.1 (explosive) materials is mixed with Division 1.3 (explosive) materials, the load is treated as a Division 1.1 (explosive) material as defined in ยง 173.50(b) of this subchapter and the stowage must conform to the most stringent requirements for the entire load).

(d) If some of the Class 1 (explosive) materials in a stowage mixture require non-metallic lining of the closed cargo transport unit, Class 1 (explosive) materials requiring ordinary stowage may be stowed in the same closed cargo transport. When a closed cargo transport unit is used for such substances that require non-metallic lining of the closed cargo transport unit, the other Class 1 (explosive) materials stowed therein must have no exposed parts of any ferrous metal or aluminum alloy, unless separated by a partition.

(e) Segregation on deck: When Class 1 (explosive) materials in different compatibility groups are carried on deck, they must be stored not less than 6 m (20 feet) apart unless they are allowed under Table 176.144(a) to be stowed in the same compartment, magazine, or cargo transport unit.

(f) On a barge used to transfer class 1 (explosive) materials from a waterfront facility to a vessel at an explosives anchorage (or from the vessel to the water front facility), if compliance with paragraph (e) of this section is not practicable, a sandbag barrier at least 0.6 m (2 feet) in thickness may be substituted for the 6 m (20 feet) separation.
