
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart G - Detailed Requirements for Class 1 (Explosive) Materials
####### Precautions During Loading and Unloading
######## ยง 176.156 Defective packages.

(a) No leaking, broken, or otherwise defective package containing Class 1 (explosive) materials, including packages which have been adversely affected by moisture, may be accepted for shipment. The master or person in charge of a vessel on which there is a defective package containing Class 1 (explosive) materials must seek advice from the shipper concerning withdrawal, repair, or replacement. No repair of damaged or defective package containing Class 1 (explosive) materials may be performed on board a vessel.

(b) No Class 1 (explosive) material, which for any reason has deteriorated or undergone a change of condition that increases the hazard attendant upon its conveyance or handling, may be moved in the port area, except as directed by the COTP.

(c) If any package of Class 1 (explosive) materials, or seal of a package of Class 1 (explosive) materials, appears to be damaged, that package must be set aside for examination and repair or otherwise legally disposed of as directed by the shipper.

(d) If any Class 1 (explosive) materials are spilled or released from a package, the responsible person must ensure that an appropriate emergency response is undertaken in accordance with the emergency response information required under ยง 172.602 of this subchapter. The master of the vessel must report each incident involving spillage or release of Class 1 (explosive) materials to the COTP as soon as practicable.
