
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart G - Detailed Requirements for Class 1 (Explosive) Materials
####### Precautions During Loading and Unloading
######## ยง 176.164 Fire precautions and firefighting.

(a) Matches, lighters, fire, and other ignition sources are prohibited on and near any vessel on which Class 1 (explosive) materials are being loaded, unloaded, or handled except in places designated by the master or the COTP.

(b) A fire hose of sufficient length to reach every part of the loading area with an effective stream of water must be laid and connected to the water main, ready for immediate use.

(c) No repair work may be carried out in a cargo space containing Class 1 (explosive) materials other than those of Division 1.4 (explosive). No welding, burning, cutting, or riveting operations involving the use of fire, flame, spark, or arc-producing equipment may be conducted on board except in an emergency; and, if in port, with the consent of the COTP.

(d) Each compartment, including a closed vehicle deck space, which contains Class 1 (explosive) materials must be provided with a fixed fire extinguishing system. Each adjacent cargo compartment either must be protected by a fixed fire extinguishing installation or must be accessible for firefighting operations.

(e) A vessel must have two sets of breathing apparatus and a power-operated fire pump, which, together with its source of power and sea connections, must be located outside the machinery space.
