
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart G - Detailed Requirements for Class 1 (Explosive) Materials
####### Cargo Transport Units and Shipborne Barges
######## § 176.168 Transport of Class 1 (explosive) materials in vehicle spaces.

(a) All transport vehicles and cargo must be properly secured.

(b) All transport vehicles used for the carriage of Class 1 (explosive) materials must be structurally serviceable as defined in § 176.172(a)(2).

(c) Vehicles used to transport Class 1 (explosive) materials must conform to the requirements in §§ 177.834 and 177.835 of this subchapter.

(d) Class 1 (explosive) materials which require special stowage must be transported in transport vehicles approved for the purpose by the Associate Administrator except that Class 1 (explosive) materials in compatibility group G or H may be carried in steel portable magazines or freight containers. Closed transport vehicles may be used as magazines; transport vehicles of other types may be used to transport Class 1 (explosive) materials which require ordinary stowage.

(e) Class 1 (explosive) materials of different compatibility groups may not be stowed in the same vehicle except as allowed in § 176.144 of this subpart.

(f) Vehicles containing different Class 1 (explosive) materials require no segregation from each other, except that these materials may be carried together under the provisions of § 176.144 of this subchapter. In all other instances, the vehicles must be "separated from" one another.

(g) All transport vehicles used for the transport of Class 1 (explosive) materials must have lashing arrangements for securing the vehicle on the ship and preventing the moving of the vehicle on its springs during the sea passage.

(h) Where a portable magazine or closed freight container is carried on a chassis, twist locks or other suitable securing arrangements must be provided and made secure.
