
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart G - Detailed Requirements for Class 1 (Explosive) Materials
####### Cargo Transport Units and Shipborne Barges
######## ยง 176.170 Transport of Class 1 (explosive) materials in freight containers.

(a) When Class 1 (explosive) materials are stowed in a freight container, the freight container, for the purposes of this subpart, may be regarded as a closed transport unit for class 1 or a magazine but not a separate compartment.

(b) Freight containers loaded with Class 1 (explosive) materials, except for explosives in Division 1.4, must not be stowed in the outermost row of containers.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Class 1 (explosive) materials of different compatibility groups may not be stowed within the same freight container except as allowed in ยง 176.144 of this subpart.

(e) On vessels, other than specially fitted container ships, freight containers containing Class 1 (explosive) materials must be stowed only in the lowest tier.

(f) Freight containers carrying different Class 1 (explosive) materials require no segregation from each other, if the provisions of ยง 176.144 of this subpart allow the Class 1 (explosive) materials to be carried together in the same compartment. In all other instances, the containers must be "separated from" one another in accordance with ยง 176.83(f) of this part.

(g) Freight containers carrying Class 1 (explosive) materials may not be handled on board a vessel with fork lift trucks unless approved by the COTP. This does not preclude the use of front-loading trucks using side-frame lifting equipment.
