
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart H - Detailed Requirements for Class 2 (Compressed Gas) Materials
####### ยง 176.205 Under deck stowage requirements.

(a) When a Class 2 (compressed gas) material is stowed below deck, it must be stowed in a mechanically ventilated cargo space with no source of artificial heat and clear of living quarters. No bulkhead or deck of that hold or compartment may be a common boundary with any boiler room, engine room, coal bunker, galley or boiler room uptake.

(b) When Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials are stowed below deck, they must be stowed in a hold or compartment which complies with paragraph (a) of this section and the following requirements:

(1) Each hold or compartment must be ventilated.

(2) Each hold or compartment must be equipped with an overhead water sprinkler system or fixed fire extinguishing system.

(3) Each electrical power line in the hold or compartment must be protected by a strong metal covering to prevent crushing by cargo being stowed against it.

(4) Except when fitted with electrical fixtures of the explosion-proof type, each electrical circuit serving the hold or compartment must be disconnected from all sources of power. No circuit may be energized until the Division 2.1 (flammable gas) cargo and any vapors have been removed from the hold or compartment. Explosion-proof portable lighting may be used if the source of power is from electrical outlets outside the hold or compartment and above the weather deck.

(5) Any opening in a common bulkhead of an adjacent hold or compartment must be securely closed off and made gas-tight, unless the adjacent hold or compartment is also used for the stowage of Division 2.1 (flammable gas) materials.

(6) Full and efficient hatch covers must be used. Tarpaulins, if fitted, must be protected by dunnaging before overstowing with any cargo. Each tarpaulin must be in one piece and free of rents, tears, and holes.

(7) A fire screen must be fitted at the weather end of each vent duct leading from the hold or compartment. The fire screen must completely cover the open area. It must consist of two layers of corrosion-resistant metal wire of 20 x 20 mesh or finer, spaced not less than 1 cm (0.4 inch) or more than 4 cm (1.6 inches) apart. The screen may be removable if means for securing it in place when in service are provided.

(8) The hold or compartment may not be fitted with any gooseneck type vent trunk head.

(9) Any electrical apparatus located in the hold or compartment must be capable of being disconnected from its power source by a positive means located outside the hold or compartment.
