
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart I - Detailed Requirements for Class 3 (Flammable) and Combustible Liquid Materials
####### ยง 176.305 General stowage requirements.

(a) A Class 3 (flammable) or combustible liquid must be kept as cool as reasonably practicable, protected from sources of heat, and away from potential sources of ignition.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in ยง 176.76(g), a package containing a Class 3 (flammable) liquid and equipped with a vent or safety relief device must be stowed "on deck" only.

(c) The following requirements apply to each hold or compartment in which any Class 3 (flammable) or combustible liquids are being transported:

(1) The hold or compartment must be ventilated except that the stowage of non-bulk packages of Class 3 (flammable) liquids with a flash point above 23 &#xB0;C (73 &#xB0;F) (see 49 CFR 171.8 definitions) may be in non-ventilated holds.

(2) Stowage of a Class 3 (flammable) or combustible liquid within 6 m (20 feet) of a bulkhead which forms a boundary or deck of a boiler room, engine room, coal bunker, galley, or boiler room uptake is not permitted. If the amount of the liquid to be stowed in a hold will not permit compliance with the requirement for a 6 m (20 foot) separation, less separation distance is authorized if at least one of the following conditions exists:

(i) The bulkhead or deck is covered with at least 8 cm (3 inches) of insulation on the entire area subject to heat;

(ii) A temporary wooden bulkhead at least 5 cm (2 inches) thick is constructed in the hold at least 8 cm (3 inches) off an engine room or 15 cm (5.9 inches) off a boiler room bulkhead, covering the entire area of the bulkhead that is subject to heat, and the space between the permanent bulkhead and the temporary wooden bulkhead is filled with mineral wool or equivalent bulk noncombustible insulating material; or

(iii) A temporary wooden bulkhead is constructed of at least 2.5 cm (1 inch) thick tongue and groove sheathing, located 1 m (3 feet) from the boiler room or engine room bulkhead, and filled with sand to a height of 2 m (7 feet) above the tank top, or, if the cargo compartment is located between decks, 1 m (3 feet) of sand.

(3) Combustible liquids may not be stowed in a hold within 6 m (20 feet) of a common bulkhead with the engine room unless the means of vessel propulsion is internal combustion engines.

(4) Each cargo opening in a bulkhead of an adjacent hold must be securely closed off and made gas-tight, unless the adjacent hold is also used for the stowage of a Class 3 (flammable) or combustible liquid.

(d) In addition to the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the following requirements apply to each hold or compartment in which a Class 3 (flammable) liquid is transported:

(1) Full and effective hatch covers must be used. Tarpaulins, if fitted, must be protected by dunnaging before overstowing with any cargo. Each tarpaulin must be in one piece and free of rents, tears, and holes;

(2) If Class 3 (flammable) liquids in excess of 1016 kg (2240 pounds) are stowed under deck in any one hold or compartment, a fire screen must be fitted at the weather end of each vent duct leading from that hold or compartment. The fire screen must completely cover the open area. It must consist of two layers of corrosion-resistant metal wire of 20 x 20 mesh or finer, spaced not less than 1 cm (0.4 inch) or more than 4 cm (1.6 inches) apart. The screen may be removable only if means for securing it in place when in service are provided;

(3) Each electrical power line in the hold or compartment must be protected by a strong metal covering to prevent crushing by cargo being stowed against it;

(4) Except when fitted with explosion-proof type electrical fixtures, each electrical circuit serving the hold or compartment must be disconnected from all sources of power from a point outside the hold or compartment containing flammable liquids. No circuit may be energized until the flammable liquids and any vapors have been removed from the hold or compartment. Explosion-proof type portable lighting may be used if the source of power is from electrical outlets outside the hold or compartment and above the weather deck; and

(5) A Class 3 (flammable) liquid in excess of 1016 kg (2240 pounds) may not be transported in any hold or compartment that is fitted with a gooseneck type of vent head.

(e) On a passenger vessel, each hold or compartment used to transport a Class 3 (flammable) liquid must be equipped with an overhead water sprinkler system or fixed fire-extinguishing system.

(f) On a passenger vessel, each hold or compartment used to transport Class 3 (flammable) liquids under a passenger space must have an overdeck of an A-60 type construction (see 46 CFR 72.05-10(c)(1)) or equivalent or have its underside covered with at least 8 cm (3 inches) of noncombustible insulation.

(g) No Class 3 (flammable) liquid in a drum or wooden case, having inside packagings of more than 1 L (0.3 gallon) capacity each, may be stowed as a beam filler. A wooden barrel, a wooden box or a fiberboard box, with any Class 3 (flammable) liquid material in inside packagings of not more than 1 L (0.3 gallon) capacity each, may only be stowed as a beam filler if it is possible to stow and observe any "THIS SIDE UP" marking.
