
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart I - Detailed Requirements for Class 3 (Flammable) and Combustible Liquid Materials
####### ยง 176.315 Fire protection requirements.

(a) For each 79,500 L (21,000 U.S. gallons) or part thereof of any Class 3 (flammable) or combustible liquid being transported on board a vessel in a portable tank, rail tank car, or a motor vehicle cargo tank, there must be provided at least one B-V semiportable foam (152 L/40 gallon capacity) (see 46 CFR 95.50), dry chemical (45.4 kg (100 pounds) minimum capacity) or equivalent fire extinguisher, or a fire hose fitted with an approved portable mechanical foam nozzle with pick-up tube and two 19 L (5 gallon) cans of foam liquid concentrate. Each foam system must be suitable for use with each Class 3 (flammable) or combustible liquid for which it is required. Each fire extinguisher must be accessible to the tank it is intended to cover.

(b) The fire hose at each fire hydrant in the vicinity of Class 3 (flammable) and combustible liquids stowage areas must be fitted with an approved combination solid stream and water spray nozzle.

(c) The pressure must be maintained in the vessel's fire mains during the loading and unloading of any Class 3 (flammable) or combustible liquids.

(d) Two 7 kg (15-pound) capacity hand portable dry chemical or two portable 10 L (2.6 gallons) foam-type extinguishers must be accessible to any packaged Class 3 (flammable) or combustible liquid and suitable for use with the lading.

(e) The requirements of this section do not apply to portable tanks and their contents authorized under 46 CFR part 98 or 46 CFR part 64.
