
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart J - Detailed Requirements for Class 4 (Flammable Solids), Class 5 (Oxidizers and Organic Peroxides), and Division 1.5 Materials
####### ยง 176.405 Stowage of charcoal.

(a) Before stowing charcoal Division 4.2 (flammable solid), UN 1361, NA 1361, or UN 1362 on a vessel for transportation, the hold or compartment in which it is to be stowed must be swept as clean as practicable. All residue of any former cargo, including especially a petroleum product, a vegetable or animal oil, nitrate, or sulfur, must be removed.

(b) Charcoal packed in bags and offered for transportation on board a vessel in a quantity over 1016 kg (2240 pounds) must be loaded so that the bags are laid horizontally and stacked with space for efficient air circulation. If the bags are not compactly filled and closed to avoid free space within, vertical and horizontal dunnage strips must be laid between the bags. Space for ventilating must be maintained near bulkheads, the shell of the vessel, the deck, and the overhead. No more than 40,600 kg (89,508 pounds) of charcoal may be stowed in a hold or compartment when other stowage space is available. If the unavailability of hold or compartment space requires the stowage of a larger amount, the arrangement of the stow for ventilation must be adjusted to ensure a sufficient venting effect.

(c) Any loose material from bags broken during loading must be removed. Broken bags may be repacked or have the closures repaired and the repaired bags restowed.

(d) Charcoal "screenings" packed in bags must be stowed to provide spaces for air circulation between tiers regardless of the quantity stowed.
