
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart N - Detailed Requirements for Class 8 (Corrosive Materials) Materials
####### ยง 176.800 General stowage requirements.

(a) Each package required to have a Class 8 (corrosive) label thereon being transported on a vessel must be stowed clear of living quarters, and away from foodstuffs and cargo of an organic nature. For the purposes of this section, food ingredients intended for human consumption (ingredients) that are Class 8 (corrosive) materials are not considered to be incompatible with other food ingredients if the intended use of those ingredients is for the manufacture of food, or food ingredients containing those food ingredients (or like ingredients), with or without other ingredients.

(b) A package of Class 8 (corrosive material) material may not be stowed over any readily combustible material.

(c) Glass carboys containing Class 8 (corrosive material) material may not be stowed on board any vessel, other than a barge, more than two tiers high unless each carboy is boxed or crated with neck protection extending to the sides of the carboy box. This protective construction must be strong enough to permit stacking one on top of the other.

(d) A Class 8 (corrosive material) material may not be stowed over a hold or compartment containing cotton unless the deck is of steel and the hatch is fitted with a tight coaming. In addition, the deck must be tight against leakage and the Class 8 (corrosive material) material may not be stowed over the square of the hatch.

(e) Each package of Class 8 (corrosive material) which also bears a FLAMMABLE LIQUID label must be stowed away from all sources of heat and ignition.
