
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart O - Detailed Requirements for Cotton and Vegetable Fibers, Motor Vehicles, Polymeric Beads, and Plastic Molding Compounds
####### § 176.905 Stowage of vehicles.
######## see,see

(4) For vehicles with batteries installed, the batteries shall be protected from damage, short circuit, and accidental activation during transport. Except for vehicles with prototype or low production lithium batteries (§ 173.185(d) of this subchapter) securely installed, each lithium battery must be of a type that has successfully passed each test in the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter), as specified in § 173.185(a) of this subchapter, unless approved by the Associate Administrator. Where a lithium battery installed in a vehicle is damaged or defective, the battery must be removed and transported according to § 173.185(f) of this subchapter, unless otherwise approved by the Associate Administrator.

(5) Whenever possible, each vehicle must be stowed to allow for its inspection during transportation.

(6) Vehicles may be refueled when necessary in the hold of a vessel in accordance with § 176.78.

(b) All equipment used for handling vehicles must be designed so that the fuel tank and the fuel system of the vehicle are protected from stress that might cause rupture or other damage incident to handling.

(c) Two hand-held, portable, dry chemical fire extinguishers of at least 4.5 kg (10 pounds) capacity each must be separately located in an accessible location in each hold or compartment in which any vehicle is stowed.

(d) "NO SMOKING" signs must be conspicuously posted at each access opening to the hold or compartment.

(e) Each portable electrical light, including a flashlight, used in the stowage area must be an approved, explosion-proof type. All electrical connections for any light must be made to outlets outside the space in which any vehicle is stowed.

(f) Each hold or compartment must be ventilated and fitted with an overhead water sprinkler system or fixed fire extinguisher system.

(g) Each hold or compartment must be equipped with a smoke or fire detection system capable of alerting personnel on the bridge.

(h) All electrical equipment in the hold or compartment other than fixed explosion-proof lighting must be disconnected from its power source at a location outside the hold or compartment during the handling and transportation of any vehicle. Where the disconnecting means is a switch or circuit breaker, it must be locked in the open position until all vehicles have been removed.
