
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 176 - CARRIAGE BY VESSEL
###### Subpart O - Detailed Requirements for Cotton and Vegetable Fibers, Motor Vehicles, Polymeric Beads, and Plastic Molding Compounds
####### ยง 176.906 Stowage of engines and machinery.

(a) Any engine or machinery powered by internal combustion systems, with or without batteries installed, is subject to the following requirements when carried as cargo on a vessel:

(1) Before being loaded on a vessel, each engine or machinery must be inspected for fuel leaks and identifiable faults in the electrical system that could result in short circuit or other unintended electrical source of ignition. Engines or machinery showing any signs of leakage or electrical fault may not be transported.

(2) The fuel tanks of an engine or machinery powered by liquid fuel may not be more than one-fourth full.

(3) Whenever possible, each engine or machinery must be stowed to allow for its inspection during transportation.

(b) All equipment used for handling engines or machinery must be designed so that the fuel tank and the fuel system of the engines or machinery are protected from stress that might cause rupture or other damage incident to handling.

(c) Two hand-held, portable, dry chemical fire extinguishers of at least 4.5 kg (10 pounds) capacity each must be separately located in an accessible location in each hold or compartment in which engine or machinery is stowed.

(d) "NO SMOKING" signs must be conspicuously posted at each access opening to the hold or compartment.

(e) Each portable electrical light, including a flashlight, used in the stowage area must be an approved, explosion-proof type. All electrical connections for any light must be made to outlets outside the space in which any engine or machinery is stowed.

(f) Each hold or compartment must be ventilated and fitted with an overhead water sprinkler system or fixed fire extinguisher system.

(g) Each hold or compartment must be equipped with a smoke or fire detection system capable of alerting personnel on the bridge.

(h) All electrical equipment in the hold or compartment other than fixed explosion-proof lighting must be disconnected from its power source at a location outside the hold or compartment during the handling and transportation of any engine or machinery. Where the disconnecting means is a switch or circuit breaker, it must be locked in the open position until all engines or machinery has been removed.
