
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 177 - CARRIAGE BY PUBLIC HIGHWAY
###### Subpart B - Loading and Unloading
####### ยง 177.835 Class 1 (explosive) materials.
######## Care in loading, unloading, or other handling of Class 1 (explosive) materials.

(b)No bale hooks or other metal tools shall be used for the loading, unloading, or other handling of Class 1 (explosive) materials, nor shall any package or other container of Class 1 (explosive) materials, except barrels or kegs, be rolled. No packages of Class 1 (explosive) materials shall be thrown or dropped during process of loading or unloading or handling of Class 1 (explosive) materials. Special care shall be exercised to the end that packages or other containers containing Class 1 (explosive) materials shall not catch fire from sparks or hot gases from the exhaust tailpipe.

(1) Whenever tarpaulins are used for covering Class 1 (explosive) materials, they shall be secured by means of rope, wire, or other equally efficient tie downs. Class 1 (explosive) materials placards or markings required by ยง 177.823 shall be secured, in the appropriate locations, directly to the equipment transporting the Class 1 (explosive) materials. If the vehicle is provided with placard boards, the placards must be applied to these boards.

(2) [Reserved]
