
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 177 - CARRIAGE BY PUBLIC HIGHWAY
###### Subpart B - Loading and Unloading
####### ยง 177.837 Class 3 (flammable liquid) materials.
######## Bonding and grounding cargo tanks before and during transfer of lading.

(c)(1) When a cargo tank is loaded through an open filling hole, one end of a bond wire shall be connected to the stationary system piping or integrally connected steel framing, and the other end to the shell of the cargo tank to provide a continuous electrical connection. (If bonding is to the framing, it is essential that piping and framing be electrically interconnected.) This connection must be made before any filling hole is opened, and must remain in place until after the last filling hole has been closed. Additional bond wires are not needed around All-Metal flexible or swivel joints, but are required for nonmetallic flexible connections in the stationary system piping. When a cargo tank is unloaded by a suction-piping system through an open filling hole of the cargo tank, electrical continuity shall be maintained from cargo tank to receiving tank.

(2) When a cargo tank is loaded or unloaded through a vapor-tight (not open hole) top or bottom connection, so that there is no release of vapor at a point where a spark could occur, bonding or grounding is not required. Contact of the closed connection must be made before flow starts and must not be broken until after the flow is completed.

(3) Bonding or grounding is not required when a cargo tank is unloaded through a nonvapor-tight connection into a stationary tank provided the metallic filling connection is maintained in contact with the filling hole.
