
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 177 - CARRIAGE BY PUBLIC HIGHWAY
###### Subpart B - Loading and Unloading
####### ยง 177.838 Class 4 (flammable solid) materials, Class 5 (oxidizing) materials, and Division 4.2 (self-heating and pyrophoric liquid) materials.
######## Lading ventilation, precautions against spontaneous combustion.

(c)Whenever a motor carrier has knowledge concerning the hazards of spontaneous combustion or heating of any article to be loaded on a motor vehicle, such article shall be so loaded as to afford sufficient ventilation of the load to provide reasonable assurance against fire from this cause; and in such a case the motor vehicle shall be unloaded as soon as practicable after reaching its destination. Charcoal screenings, or ground, crushed, granulated, or pulverized charcoal, in bags, shall be so loaded that the bags are laid horizontally in the motor vehicle, and so piled that there will be spaces for effective air circulation, which spaces shall not be less than 10 cm (3.9 inches) wide; and air spaces shall be maintained between rows of bags. Bags shall not be piled closer than 15 cm (5.9 inches) from the top of any motor vehicle with a closed body.

(d)-(e) [Reserved]

(f) Nitrates, except ammonium nitrate having organic coating, must be loaded in closed or open type motor vehicles, which must be swept clean and be free of any projections capable of injuring bags when so packaged. When shipped in open type motor vehicles, the lading must be suitably covered. Ammonium nitrate having organic coating must not be loaded in all-metal vehicles, other than those made of aluminum or aluminum alloys of the closed type.

(g) A motor vehicle may only contain 45.4 kg (100 pounds) or less net mass of material described as "Smokeless powder for small arms, Division 4.1" or "Black powder for small arms, Division 4.1."
