
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 177 - CARRIAGE BY PUBLIC HIGHWAY
###### Subpart B - Loading and Unloading
####### ยง 177.840 Class 2 (gases) materials.
######## Cylinders containing material classed as Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A.

(3)(i) Notwithstanding the segregation requirements of ยง 177.848(d), a cylinder containing a Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A materials may be transported on the same transport vehicle with materials classed as Division 2.1, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, and Class 8 if all of the following requirements are met:

(A) The Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A material must be packaged as authorized by this subchapter. In addition, each package must be must be placed in a plastic bag which is taped closed and then overpacked in a UN 1A2 steel drum tested and marked for a PG II or higher performance level with insulation material inside to protect the cylinders from fire. The outside of the overpack must be marked with an indication that the inner packagings conform to the prescribed specifications.

(B) A Division 2.1 material requiring strong non-bulk outer packagings in accordance with ยง 173.301(a)(9) of this subchapter must be overpacked in a UN 1A2 steel or 1H2 plastic drum tested and marked for a PG II or higher performance level. The outside of the overpack must be marked with an indication that the inner packagings conform to the prescribed specifications.

(C) Packages containing Division 2.3 Hazard Zone A material must be separated within the transport vehicle from packages containing Division 2.1, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, and Class 8 materials by a minimum horizontal distance of 1.2 m (4 feet). In addition, all steel or plastic overpacks containing packages of Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A or Division 2.1 material must be placed on pallets within the transport vehicle.

(ii) Notwithstanding the segregation requirements of ยง 177.848(d), Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A material may be transported on the same transport vehicle with non-bulk packagings and IBCs meeting a UN performance standard containing only the residue of Division 2.1, 4.3, 5.1, and Class 3 and 8 materials if all of the following requirements are met:

(A) The materials are transported in enclosed trailers equipped with inlet and outlet vent openings with a minimum total area of one square foot per 1,000 cubic feet of trailer volume. Electrical systems within the trailer's interior must be non-sparking or explosion proof.

(B) Cylinders must be transported in an upright position and securely restrained within the trailer, or loaded into racks, secured to pallets, or packed in wooden or fiberboard boxes or crates to prevent the cylinders from shifting or overturning within the motor vehicle under normal transportation conditions. If cylinders are secured to a pallet, the pallet must be designed to transport 1,590 kg (3,500 lbs.) per pallet and the cylinders must be secured within the pallet by a web strap rated at 4,545 kg (10,000 lbs.).

(C) A cylinder containing Division 2.3 Hazard Zone A materials must be separated from non-bulk packagings and IBCs meeting a UN performance standard containing the residue of materials in Division 2.1, 4.3, or 5.1, or Class 3 or 8 by a minimum horizontal distance of 3 m (10 feet). The maximum gross weight of Division 2.3 Hazard Zone A material carried on one vehicle must not exceed 3,636 kg (8,000 lbs.).

(D) Motor carriers must have a satisfactory safety rating as prescribed in 49 CFR part 385.
