
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 177 - CARRIAGE BY PUBLIC HIGHWAY
###### Subpart B - Loading and Unloading
####### ยง 177.840 Class 2 (gases) materials.
######## Engine to be stopped in cargo tank motor vehicles, except for transfer pump.

(d)No Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material shall be loaded into or on or unloaded from any cargo tank motor vehicles with the engine running unless the engine is used for the operation of the transfer pump of the vehicle. Unless the delivery hose is equipped with a shut-off valve at its discharge end, the engine of the motor vehicle shall be stopped at the finish of such loading or unloading operation while the filling or discharge connections are disconnected.

(e) Chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles shall be shipped only when equipped:

(1) With a gas mask of a type approved by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) Pittsburgh Research Center, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for chlorine service; and

(2) With an emergency kit for controlling leaks in fittings on the dome cover plate.

(f) A cargo tank motor vehicle used for transportation of chlorine may not be moved, coupled or uncoupled, when any loading or unloading connections are attached to the vehicle, nor may it be left without the power unit attached unless the vehicle is chocked or equivalent means are provided to prevent motion. For additional requirements, see ยง 173.315(o) of this subchapter.

(g) Each liquid discharge valve on a cargo tank motor vehicle, other than an engine fuel line valve, must be closed during transportation except during loading and unloading.

(h) The driver of a motor vehicle transporting a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid in a package exceeding 450 L (119 gallons) of water capacity shall avoid unnecessary delays during transportation. If unforeseen conditions cause an excessive pressure rise, the driver shall manually vent the tank at a remote and safe location. For each shipment, the driver shall make a written record of the cargo tank pressure and ambient (outside) temperature:

(1) At the start of each trip,

(2) Immediately before and after any manual venting,

(3) At least once every five hours, and

(4) At the destination point.

(i) No person may transport a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid in a cargo tank motor vehicle unless the pressure of the lading is equal to or less than that used to determine the marked rated holding time (MRHT) and the one-way travel time (OWTT), marked on the cargo tank in conformance with ยง 173.318(g) of this subchapter, is equal to or greater than the elapsed time between the start and termination of travel. This prohibition does not apply if, prior to expiration of the OWTT, the cargo tank is brought to full equilibration as specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(j) Full equilibration of a cargo tank transporting a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid may only be done at a facility that loads or unloads a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid and must be performed and verified as follows:

(1) The temperature and pressure of the liquid must be reduced by a manually controlled release of vapor; and

(2) The pressure in the cargo tank must be measured at least ten minutes after the manual release is terminated.

(k) A carrier of carbon monoxide, cryogenic liquid must provide each driver with a self-contained air breathing apparatus that is approved by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health; for example, Mine Safety Appliance Co., Model 401, catalog number 461704.
