
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 177 - CARRIAGE BY PUBLIC HIGHWAY
###### Subpart B - Loading and Unloading
####### § 177.842 Class 7 (radioactive) material.

(a) The number of packages of Class 7 (radioactive) materials in any transport vehicle or in any single group in any storage location must be limited so that the total transport index number does not exceed 50. The total transport index of a group of packages and overpacks is determined by adding together the transport index number on the labels on the individual packages and overpacks in the group. This provision does not apply to exclusive use shipments described in §§ 173.441(b), 173.457, and 173.427 of this subchapter.

(b) Packages of Class 7 (radioactive) material bearing "RADIOACTIVE YELLOW-II" or "RADIOACTIVE YELLOW-III" labels may not be placed in a transport vehicle, storage location or in any other place closer than the distances shown in the following table to any area which may be continuously occupied by any passenger, employee, or animal, nor closer than the distances shown in the table to any package containing undeveloped film (if so marked), and must conform to the following conditions:

(1) If more than one of these packages is present, the distance must be computed from the following table on the basis of the total transport index number determined by adding together the transport index number on the labels on the individual packages and overpacks in the vehicle or storeroom.

(2) Where more than one group of packages is present in any single storage location, a single group may not have a total transport index greater than 50. Each group of packages must be handled and stored together no closer than 6 m (20 feet) (measured edge to edge) to any other group. The following table is to be used in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section:

(c) Shipments of low specific activity materials and surface contaminated objects, as defined in § 173.403 of this subchapter, must be loaded so as to avoid spillage and scattering of loose materials. Loading restrictions are set forth in § 173.427 of this subchapter.

(d) Packages must be so blocked and braced that they cannot change position during conditions normally incident to transportation.

(e) Persons should not remain unnecessarily in a vehicle containing Class 7 (radioactive) materials.

(f) The number of packages of fissile Class 7 (radioactive) material in any non-exclusive use transport vehicle must be limited so that the sum of the criticality safety indices (CSIs) does not exceed 50. In loading and storage areas, fissile material packages must be grouped so that the sum of CSIs in any one group is not greater than 50; there may be more than one group of fissile material packages in a loading or storage area, so long as each group is at least 6 m (20 feet) away from all other such groups. All pertinent requirements of §§ 173.457 and 173.459 apply.

(g) For shipments transported under exclusive use conditions the radiation dose rate may not exceed 0.02 mSv per hour (2 mrem per hour) in any position normally occupied in the motor vehicle. For shipments transported as exclusive use under the provisions of § 173.441(b) of this subchapter for packages with external radiation levels in excess of 2 mSv (200 mrem per hour) at the package surface, the motor vehicle must meet the requirements of a closed transport vehicle (see § 173.403 of this subchapter). The sum of criticality safety indices (CSIs) for packages containing fissile material may not exceed 100 in an exclusive use vehicle.
