
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 21 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### Appendix A to Part 21 - Activities to Which This Part Applies
##### et seq.

2. Use of grants made in connection with the Highway Safety Act of 1966 (23 U.S.C. 401).

3. Use of grants in connection with the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (15 U.S.C. 1391-1409, 1421-1425).

4. Lease of real property and the grant of permits, licenses, easements and rights-of-way covering real property under control of the Coast Guard (14 U.S.C. 93 (n) and (o)).

5. Utilization of Coast Guard personnel and facilities by any State, territory, possession, or political subdivision thereof (14 U.S.C. 141(a)).

6. Use of Coast Guard personnel for duty in connection with maritime instruction and training by the States, territories, and Puerto Rico (14 U.S.C. 148).

7. Use of obsolete and other Coast Guard material by sea scout service of Boy Scouts of America, any incorporated unit of the Coast Guard auxiliary, and public body or private organization not organized for profit (14 U.S.C. 641(a)).

8. U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary Program (14 U.S.C. 821-832).

9. Use of grants for the support of basic scientific research by nonprofit institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations whose primary purpose is conduct of scientific research (42 U.S.C. 1891).

10. Use of grants made in connection with the Federal-aid Airport Program (secs. 1-15 and 17-20 of the Federal Airport Act, 49 U.S.C. 1101-1114, 1116-1120).

11. Use of U.S. land acquired for public airports under:

a. Section 16 of the Federal Airport Act, 49 U.S.C. 1115; and

b. Surplus Property Act (sec. 13(g) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, 50 U.S.C. App. 1622(g), and sec. 3 of the Act of Oct. 1, 1949, 50 U.S.C. App. 1622b).

12. Activities carried out in connection with the Aviation Education Program of the Federal Aviation Administration under sections 305, 311, and 313(a) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1346, 1352, and 1354(a)).

13. Use of grants and loans made in connection with public transportation programs (49 U.S.C. chapter 53).

14. Use of grants made in connection with the High Speed Ground Transportation Act, as amended (49 U.S.C. 631-642).
