
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.38a Redelegations by the Assistant Secretary for Administration.

(a) The Director, Office of the Senior Procurement Executive is redelegated the authority to:

(1) Carry out the duties and responsibilities of agency head for departmental procurement within the meaning of the Federal Acquisition Regulation except for those duties expressly reserved for the Secretary of Transportation.

(2) Carry out the functions of the Chief Acquisition Officer (CAO) except for those functions specifically reserved for the Deputy Secretary. In carrying out these functions and in support of requirements under Services Acquisition Reform Act (SARA), enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for 2004-Public Law 108-136, the Senior Procurement Executive (SPE) is expected to interact directly, and without intervening authority, with the CAO on issues related to strategic acquisition policy, implementation, and management. The nature and frequency of interactions with the CAO will be determined mutually between the SPE and the CAO.

(3) Procure and authorize payment for property and services for the Office of the Secretary, with power to re-delegate and authorize successive re-delegations.

(b) The Director of Human Resources Management is redelegated the authority to:

(1) Develop departmental human capital policies and objectives, and monitor and oversee the implementation of those policies.

(2) Establish departmental human capital performance objectives and metrics.

(3) Conduct a personnel management program for the Office of the Secretary with authority to take, direct others to take, recommend or approve any personnel action with respect to such authority.

(4) Concur in the appointment and promotion of all Human Resources (HR) Directors in each Operating Administration and participate in the performance reviews of HR Directors.

(5) Provide policy and overall direction in the execution of the DOT Labor-Management Relations Program.

(6) Develop and operate the Federal Employee Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Program in accordance with Executive Order 12564 and The Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991, Public Law 102-143, Title V.

(7) Develop, coordinate, and issue wage schedules for Department employees under the Federal Wage System.

(c) The Director of Financial Management within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration is redelegated the authority to:

(1) Settle and pay claims by Working Capital Fund employees for personal property losses as provided by 31 U.S.C. 3721 if the amount of the payment does not exceed $500.

(d) The Director, Transit Benefit Program is redelegated the authority to:

(1) Oversee the Department's transportation fringe benefit program under 5 U.S.C. 7905 and 26 U.S.C. 132(f).

(2) Consult with and provide guidance to other Federal agencies on transportation fringe benefit programs under 5 U.S.C. 7905 and 26 U.S.C. 132(f).

(3) Establish and maintain uniform Federal Government standards for developing and supporting Federal agencies' transportation fringe benefit programs under 5 U.S.C. 7905 and 26 U.S.C. 132(f).
