
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 21 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### Appendix C to Part 21 - Application of Part 21 to Certain Federal Financial Assistance of the Department of Transportation
##### Federal Aviation Administration.

(1)(i) The airport sponsor or any of his lessees, concessionaires, or contractors may not differentiate between members of the public because of race, color, or national origin in furnishing, or admitting to, waiting rooms, passenger holding areas, aircraft tiedown areas, restaurant facilities, restrooms, or facilities operated under the compatible land use concept.

(ii) The airport sponsor and any of his lessees, concessionaires, or contractors must offer to all members of the public the same degree and type of service without regard to race, color, or national origin. This rule applies to fixed base operators, restaurants, snack bars, gift shops, ticket counters, baggage handlers, car rental agencies, limousines and taxis franchised by the airport sponsor, insurance underwriters, and other businesses catering to the public at the airport.

(iii) An aircraft operator may not be required to park his aircraft at a location that is less protected, or less accessible from the terminal facilities, than locations offered to others, because of his race, color, or national origin.

(iv) The pilot of an aircraft may not be required to help more extensively in fueling operations, and may not be offered less incidental service (such as windshield wiping), than other pilots, because of his race, color, or national origin.

(v) No pilot or crewmember eligible for access to a pilot's lounge or to unofficial communication facilities such as a UNICOM frequency may be restricted in that access because of his race, color, or national origin.

(vi) Access to facilities maintained at the airport by air carriers or commercial operators for holders of first-class transportation tickets or frequent users of the carrier's or operator's services may not be restricted on the basis of race, color, or national origin.

(vii) Passengers and crewmembers seeking ground transportation from the airport may not be assigned to different vehicles, or delayed or embarrassed in assignment to vehicles, by the airport sponsor or his lessees, concessionaires, or contractors, because of race, color, or national origin.

(viii) Where there are two or more sites having equal potential to serve the aeronautical needs of the area, the airport sponsor shall select the site least likely to adversely affect existing communities. Such site selection shall not be made on the basis of race, color, or national origin.

(ix) Employment at obligated airports, including employment by tenants and concessionaires shall be available to all regardless of race, creed, color, sex, or national origin. The sponsor shall coordinate his airport plan with his local transit authority and the Federal Transit Administration to assure public transportation, convenient to the disadvantaged areas of nearby communities to enhance employment opportunities for the disadvantaged and minority population.

(x) The sponsor shall assure that the minority business community in his area is advised of the opportunities offered by airport concessions, and that bids are solicited from such qualified minority firms, and awards made without regard to race, color, or national origin.
