
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 21 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### Appendix C to Part 21 - Application of Part 21 to Certain Federal Financial Assistance of the Department of Transportation
##### Federal Highway Administration.

(2)(i) The State, acting through its highway department, may not discriminate in its selection and retention of contractors, including without limitation, those whose services are retained for, or incidental to, construction, planning, research, highway safety, engineering, property management, and fee contracts and other commitments with person for services and expenses incidental to the acquisition of right-of-way.

(ii) The State may not discriminate against eligible persons in making relocation payments and in providing relocation advisory assistance where relocation is necessitated by highway right-of-way acquisitions.

(iii) Federal-aid contractors may not discriminate in their selection and retention of first-tier subcontractors, and first-tier subcontractors may not discriminate in their selection and retention of second-tier subcontractors, who participate in Federal-aid highway construction, acquisition of right-of-way and related projects, including those who supply materials and lease equipment.

(iv) The State may not discriminate against the traveling public and business users of the federally assisted highway in their access to and use of the facilities and services provided for public accommodations (such as eating, sleeping, rest, recreation, and vehicle servicing) constructed on, over or under the right-of-way of such highways.

(v) Neither the State, any other persons subject to this part, nor its contractors and subcontractors may discriminate in their employment practices in connection with highway construction projects or other projects assisted by the Federal Highway Administration.

(vi) The State shall not locate or design a highway in such a manner as to require, on the basis of race, color, or national origin, the relocation of any persons.

(vii) The State shall not locate, design, or construct a highway in such a manner as to deny reasonable access to, and use thereof, to any persons on the basis of race, color, or national origin.
