
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.35 General requirements for specification cylinders.
######## Markings.

(f)Markings on a DOT Specification cylinder must conform to applicable requirements.

(1) Each cylinder must be marked with the following information:

(i) The DOT specification marking must appear first, followed immediately by the service pressure. For example, DOT-3A1800.

(ii) The serial number must be placed just below or immediately following the DOT specification marking.

(iii) A symbol (letters) must be placed just below, immediately before or following the serial number. Other variations in sequence of markings are authorized only when necessitated by a lack of space. The symbol and numbers must be those of the manufacturer. The symbol must be registered with the Associate Administrator; duplications are not authorized.

(iv) The inspector's official mark and date of test (such as 5-95 for May 1995) must be placed near the serial number. This information must be placed so that dates of subsequent tests can be easily added. An example of the markings prescribed in this paragraph (f)(1) is as follows:

Or;

(2) Additional required marking must be applied to the cylinder as follows:

(i) The word "spun" or "plug" must be placed near the DOT specification marking when an end closure in the finished cylinder has been welded by the spinning process, or effected by plugging.

(ii) As prescribed in specification 3HT (ยง 178.44) or 3T (ยง 178.45), if applicable.
