
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.37 Specification 3AA and 3AAX seamless steel cylinders.
######## Heat treatment.

(g)The completed cylinders must be uniformly and properly heat treated prior to tests. Heat treatment of cylinders of the authorized analyses must be as follows:

(1) All cylinders must be quenched by oil, or other suitable medium except as provided in paragraph (g)(5) of this section.

(2) The steel temperature on quenching must be that recommended for the steel analysis, but may not exceed 1750 &#xB0;F.

(3) All steels must be tempered at a temperature most suitable for that steel.

(4) The minimum tempering temperature may not be less than 1000 &#xB0;F except as noted in paragraph (g)(6) of this section.

(5) Steel 4130X may be normalized at a temperature of 1650 &#xB0;F instead of being quenched and cylinders so normalized need not be tempered.

(6) Intermediate manganese steels may be tempered at temperatures not less than 1150 &#xB0;F., and after heat treating each cylinder must be submitted to a magnetic test to detect the presence of quenching cracks. Cracked cylinders must be rejected and destroyed.

(7) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g)(6) of this section, all cylinders, if water quenched or quenched with a liquid producing a cooling rate in excess of 80 percent of the cooling rate of water, must be inspected by the magnetic particle, dye penetrant or ultrasonic method to detect the presence of quenching cracks. Any cylinder designed to the requirements for specification 3AA and found to have a quenching crack must be rejected and may not be requalified. Cylinders designed to the requirements for specification 3AAX and found to have cracks must have cracks removed to sound metal by mechanical means. Such specification 3AAX cylinders will be acceptable if the repaired area is subsequently examined to assure no defect, and it is determined that design thickness requirements are met.
