
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.38 Specification 3B seamless steel cylinders.
######## Pressure testing.

(i)Each cylinder must successfully withstand a pressure test as follows:

(1) The test must be by water-jacket or direct expansion method as defined in CGA C-1 (IBR; see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). The testing equipment must be calibrated as prescribed in CGA C-1. All testing equipment and pressure indicating devices must be accurate within the parameters defined in CGA C-1.

(2) Cylinders must be tested as follows:

(i) Each cylinder to at least two (2) times its service pressure; or

(ii) One (1) cylinder out of each lot of 200 or fewer to at least three (3) times its service pressure. When one (1) cylinder out of each lot of 200 or less is tested to at least 3 times service pressure, the balance of the lot must be pressure tested by the proof pressure, water-jacket or direct expansion test method as prescribed in CGA C-1. The cylinders must be subjected to at least 2 times service pressure and show no defect. If, due to failure of the test apparatus or operator error, the test pressure cannot be maintained, the test may be repeated in accordance with CGA C-1 5.7.2 or 7.1.2, as appropriate. Determination of expansion properties is not required.

(3) When each cylinder is tested to the minimum test pressure, the minimum test pressure must be maintained at least 30 seconds and sufficiently longer to ensure complete expansion. Any internal pressure applied after heat-treatment and previous to the official test may not exceed 90 percent of the test pressure. If, due to failure of the test apparatus or operator error, the test pressure cannot be maintained, the test may be repeated in accordance with CGA C-1, section 5.7.2.

(4) Permanent volumetric expansion may not exceed 10 percent of total volumetric expansion at test pressure.
