
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.42 Specification 3E seamless steel cylinders.
######## Pressure testing.

(f)Cylinders must be tested as follows:

(1) One cylinder out of each lot of 500 or fewer must be subjected to a hydrostatic test pressure of 6,000 psig or higher.

(2) The cylinder referred to in paragraph (f)(1) of this section must burst at a pressure higher than 6,000 psig without fragmenting or otherwise showing lack of ductility, or must hold a pressure of 12,000 psig for 30 seconds without bursting. In which case, it must be subjected to a flattening test without cracking to six times wall thickness between knife edges, wedge shaped 60 degree angle, rounded out to ainch radius. The inspector's report must be suitably changed to show results of latter alternate and flattening test. The testing equipment must be calibrated as prescribed in CGA C-1 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). All testing equipment and pressure indicating devices must be accurate within the parameters defined in CGA C-1.

(3) The remaining cylinders of the lot must be pressure tested by the proof pressure water-jacket or direct expansion test method as prescribed in CGA C-1. Cylinders must be examined under pressure of at least 3,000 psig and not to exceed 4,500 psig and show no defect. Cylinders tested at a pressure in excess of 3,600 psig must burst at a pressure higher than 7,500 psig when tested as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The pressure must be maintained for at least 30 seconds and sufficiently longer to ensure complete examination. The testing equipment must be calibrated as prescribed in CGA C-1. All testing equipment and pressure indicating devices must be accurate within the parameters defined in CGA C-1. If, due to failure of the test apparatus or operator error, the test pressure cannot be maintained, the test may be repeated in accordance with CGA C-1 5.7.2 or 7.1.2, as appropriate. Determination of expansion properties is not required.
