
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.45 Specification 3T seamless steel cylinder.
######## Openings.

(f)Openings in cylinders must comply with the following:

(1) Openings are permitted on heads only.

(2) The size of any centered opening in a head may not exceed one half the outside diameter of the cylinder.

(3) Openings in a head must have ligaments between openings of at least three times the average of their hole diameter. No off-center opening may exceed 2.625 inches in diameter.

(4) All openings must be circular.

(5) All openings must be threaded. Threads must be in compliance with the following:

(i) Each thread must be clean cut, even, without any checks, and to gauge.

(ii) Taper threads, when used, must be the American Standard Pipe thread (NPT) type and must be in compliance with the requirements of NBS Handbook H-28 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(iii) Taper threads conforming to National Gas Taper thread (NGT) standards must be in compliance with the requirements of NBS Handbook H-28.

(iv) Straight threads conforming with National Gas Straight thread (NGS) standards are authorized. These threads must be in compliance with the requirements of NBS Handbook H-28.
