
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.45 Specification 3T seamless steel cylinder.
######## Basic conditions for acceptable physical testing.

(j)The following criteria must be followed to obtain acceptable physical test results:

(1) Each tension specimen must have a gauge length of two inches with a width not exceeding one and one-half inches. Except for the grip ends, the specimen may not be flattened. The grip ends may be flattened to within one inch of each end of the reduced section.

(2) A specimen may not be heated after heat treatment specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) The yield strength in tension must be the stress corresponding to a permanent strain of 0.2 percent of the gage length.

(i) This yield strength must be determined by the "offset" method or the "extension under load" method described in ASTM E 8 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) For the "extension under load" method, the total strain (or extension under load) corresponding to the stress at which the 0.2 percent permanent strain occurs may be determined with sufficient accuracy by calculating the elastic extension of the gage length under appropriate load and adding thereto 0.2 percent of the gage length. Elastic extension calculations must be based on an elastic modulus of 30,000,000. However, when the degree of accuracy of this method is questionable the entire stress-strain diagram must be plotted and the yield strength determined from the 0.2 percent offset.

(iii) For the purpose of strain measurement, the initial strain must be set with the specimen under a stress of 12,000 p.s.i. and the strain indicator reading set at the calculated corresponding strain.

(iv) The cross-head speed of the testing machine may not exceedinch per minute during the determination of yield strength.

(4) Each impact specimen must be Charpy V-notch type size 10 mm x 10 mm taken in accordance with paragraph 11 of ASTM A 333 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). When a reduced size specimen is used, it must be the largest size obtainable.
