
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.46 Specification 3AL seamless aluminum cylinders.
######## Pressure testing.

(g)Each cylinder must successfully withstand a pressure test as follows:

(1) The test must be by water-jacket or direct expansion method as prescribed in CGA C-1 (IBR; see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). The testing equipment must be calibrated as prescribed in CGA C-1. All testing equipment and pressure indicating devices must be accurate within the parameters defined in CGA C-1.

(2) The minimum test pressure must be the greater of the following:

(i) 450 psig regardless of service pressure;

(ii) Two (2) times the service pressure for cylinders having service pressure less than 500 psig; or

(iii)times the service pressure for cylinders having a service pressure of 500 psig or greater.

(3) The minimum test pressure must be maintained at least 30 seconds and sufficiently longer to ensure complete expansion. Any internal pressure applied after heat treatment and prior to the official test may not exceed 90 percent of the test pressure. If, due to failure of the test apparatus or operator error, the test pressure cannot be maintained, the test may be repeated in accordance with CGA C-1, section 5.7.2, however, if a second failure to maintain the test pressure occurs the cylinder being tested must be rejected.

(4) Permanent volumetric expansion may not exceed 10 percent of total volumetric expansion at test pressure.
