
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.50 Specification 4B welded or brazed steel cylinders.
######## Opening in cylinders.

(h)Openings in cylinders must comply with the following:

(1) Any opening must be placed on other than a cylindrical surface.

(2) Each opening in a spherical type of cylinder must be provided with a fitting, boss, or pad of weldable steel securely attached to the cylinder by fusion welding.

(3) Each opening in a cylindrical type cylinder, except those for pressure relief devices, must be provided with a fitting, boss, or pad, securely attached to container by brazing or by welding.

(4) If threads are used, they must comply with the following:

(i) Threads must be clean cut, even without checks, and tapped to gauge.

(ii) Taper threads must be of a length not less than as specified for American Standard taper pipe threads.

(iii) Straight threads, must have at least four (4) engaged threads, must have tight fit and a calculated shear strength at least ten (10) times the test pressure of the cylinder; gaskets are required for straight threads and must be of sufficient quality to prevent leakage.

(iv) A brass fitting may be brazed to the steel boss or flange on cylinders used as component parts of handheld fire extinguishers.

(5) The closure of a fitting, boss, or pad must be adequate to prevent leakage.
