
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.51 Specification 4BA welded or brazed steel cylinders.
######## Spheres.

(ii)Testing is required on two (2) specimens removed from the sphere or flat representative sample plates of the same heat of material taken at random from the steel used to produce the spheres. Samples (including plates) must be taken from each lot of 200 or fewer. The flat steel from which two specimens are to be removed must receive the same heat treatment as the spheres themselves. Samples must be removed after heat treatment as illustrated in appendix A to this subpart.

(2) Specimens must comply with the following:

(i) When a cylinder wall isinch thick or less, one the following gauge lengths is authorized: A gauge length of 8 inches with a width not over 1inches, a gauge length of 2 inches with a width not over 1inches, or a gauge length at least twenty-four (24) times the thickness with a width not over six (6) times the thickness.

(ii) The specimen, exclusive of grip ends, may not be flattened. Grip ends may be flattened to within one inch of each end of the reduced section.

(iii) When size of the cylinder does not permit securing straight specimens, the specimens may be taken in any location or direction and may be straightened or flattened cold, by pressure only, not by blows. When specimens are so taken and prepared, the inspector's report must show with the record of physical tests detailed information in regard to such specimens.

(iv) Heating of a specimen for any purpose is not authorized.

(3) The yield strength in tension must be the stress corresponding to a permanent strain of 0.2 percent of the gauge length. The following conditions apply:

(i) The yield strength must be determined by either the "offset" method or the "extension under load" method as prescribed in ASTM E 8 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) In using the "extension under load" method, the total strain (or "extension under load"), corresponding to the stress at which the 0.2 percent permanent strain occurs may be determined with sufficient accuracy by calculating the elastic extension of the gauge length under appropriate load and adding thereto 0.2 percent of the gauge length. Elastic extension calculations must be based on an elastic modulus of 30,000,000. In the event of controversy, the entire stress-strain diagram must be plotted and the yield strength determined from the 0.2 percent offset.

(iii) For strain measurement, the initial strain reference must be set while the specimen is under a stress of 12,000 psig, and the strain indicator reading must be set at the calculated corresponding strain.
