
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.57 Specification 4L welded insulated cylinders.
######## Manufacture.

(d)Cylinders must be manufactured using equipment and processes adequate to ensure that each cylinder produced conforms to the requirements of this subpart and to the following requirements:

(1) No defect is permitted that is likely to weaken the finished cylinder appreciably. A reasonably smooth and uniform surface finish is required. The shell portion must be a reasonably true cylinder.

(2) The heads must be seamless, concave side to the pressure, hemispherical or ellipsoidal in shape with the major diameter not more than twice the minor diameter. Minimum thickness of heads may not be less than 90 percent of the required thickness of the sidewall. The heads must be reasonably true to shape, have no abrupt shape changes, and the skirts must be reasonably true to round.

(3) The surface of the cylinder must be insulated. The insulating material must be fire resistant. The insulation on non-evacuated jackets must be covered with a steel jacket not less than 0.060-inch thick or an aluminum jacket not less than 0.070 inch thick, so constructed that moisture cannot come in contact with the insulating material. If a vacuum is maintained in the insulation space, the evacuated jacket must be designed for a minimum collapsing pressure of 30 psig differential whether made of steel or aluminum. The construction must be such that the total heat transfer, from the atmosphere at ambient temperature to the contents of the cylinder, will not exceed 0.0005 Btu per hour, per Fahrenheit degree differential in temperature, per pound of water capacity of the cylinder. For hydrogen, cryogenic liquid service, the total heat transfer, with a temperature differential of 520 Fahrenheit degrees, may not exceed that required to vent 30 SCF of hydrogen gas per hour.

(4) For a cylinder having a design service temperature colder than minus 320 &#xB0;F, a calculation of the maximum weight of contents must be made and that weight must be marked on the cylinder as prescribed in ยง 178.35.

(5) Welding procedures and operations must be qualified in accordance with CGA Pamphlet C-3 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). In addition, an impact test of the weld must be performed in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section as part of the qualification of each welding procedure and operator.
