
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.57 Specification 4L welded insulated cylinders.
######## Markings.

(p)(1) Markings must be stamped plainly and permanently on shoulder or top head of jacket or on a permanently attached plate or head protective ring.

(2) The letters "ST", followed by the design service temperature (for example, ST-423F), must be marked on cylinders having a design service temperature of colder than minus 320 &#xB0;F only. Location to be just below the DOT mark.

(3) The maximum weight of contents, in pounds (for example, "Max. Content 51 #"), must be marked on cylinders having a design service temperature colder than minus 320 &#xB0;F only. Location to be near symbol.

(4) Special orientation instructions must be marked on the cylinder (for example, THIS END UP), if the cylinder is used in an orientation other than vertical with openings at the top of the cylinder.

(5) If the jacket of the cylinder is constructed of aluminum, the letters "AL" must be marked after the service pressure marking. Example: DOT-4L150 AL.

(6) Except for serial number and jacket material designation, each marking prescribed in this paragraph (p) must be duplicated on each cylinder by any suitable means.
