
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.58 Specification 4DA welded steel cylinders for aircraft use.
######## Physical test and specimens for spheres and cylinders.

(m)Spheres and cylinders must be subjected to a physical test as follows:

(1) A physical test for a sphere is required on 2 specimens cut from a flat representative sample plate of the same heat taken at random from the steel used to produce the sphere. This flat steel from which the 2 specimens are to be cut must receive the same heat-treatment as the spheres themselves. Sample plates to be taken for each lot of 200 or less spheres.

(2) Specimens for spheres have a gauge length of 2 inches with a width not over 1inches, or a gauge length at least 24 times thickness with a width not over 6 times thickness is authorized when wall of sphere is not overinch thick.

(3) A physical test for cylinders is required on 2 specimens cut from 1 cylinder taken at random out of each lot of 200 or less.

(4) Specimens for cylinder must conform to the following:

(i) A gauge length of 8 inches with a width not over 1inches, a gauge length of 2 inches with a width not over 1inches, a gauge length at least 24 times thickness with a width not over 6 times thickness is authorized when a cylinder wall is not overinch thick.

(ii) The specimen, exclusive of grip ends, may not be flattened. Grip ends may be flattened to within 1 inch of each end of the reduced section.

(iii) Heating of a specimen for any purpose is not authorized.

(5) The yield strength in tension must be the stress corresponding to a permanent strain of 0.2 percent of the gauge length. The following conditions apply:

(i) The yield strength must be determined by either the "offset" method or the "extension under load" method as prescribed in ASTM E 8 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) In using the "extension under load" method, the total strain (or "extension under load") corresponding to the stress at which the 0.2 percent permanent strain occurs may be determined with sufficient accuracy by calculating the elastic extension of the gauge length under appropriate load and adding thereto 0.2 percent of the gauge length. Elastic extension calculations must be based on an elastic modulus of 30,000,000. In the event of controversy, the entire stress-strain diagram must be plotted and the yield strength determined from the 0.2 percent offset.

(iii) For the purpose of strain measurement, the initial strain must be set while the specimen is under a stress of 12,000 psi and the strain indicator reading being set at the calculated corresponding strain.

(iv) Cross-head speed of the testing machine may not exceedinch per minute during yield strength determination.
