
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.59 Specification 8 steel cylinders with porous fillings for acetylene.
######## Lot testing.

(1)(i) At least one (1) cylinder selected at random out of each lot of 200 or fewer must be tested by water-jacket or direct expansion method as prescribed in CGA C-1 (IBR; see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). The testing equipment must be calibrated as prescribed in CGA C-1. All testing equipment and pressure indicating devices must be accurate within the parameters defined in CGA C-1.

(ii) The selected cylinder must be tested to a minimum of 750 psig.

(iii) The minimum test pressure must be maintained at least 30 seconds and sufficiently longer to ensure complete expansion. Any internal pressure applied after heat-treatment and prior to the official test may not exceed 90 percent of the test pressure. If, due to failure of the test apparatus or operator error, the test pressure cannot be maintained, the test may be repeated in accordance with CGA C-1, section 5.7.2.

(iv) Permanent volumetric expansion may not exceed 10 percent of the total volumetric expansion at test pressure.

(v) If the selected cylinder passes the volumetric expansion test, each remaining cylinder in the lot must be pressure tested in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section. If the selected cylinder fails, each cylinder in the lot must be tested by water-jacket or direct expansion method as prescribed in CGA C-1 at 750 psig. Each cylinder with a permanent expansion that does not exceed 10% is acceptable.
