
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.61 Specification 4BW welded steel cylinders with electric-arc welded seam.
######## Manufacture.

(d)Cylinders must be manufactured using equipment and processes adequate to ensure that each cylinder produced conforms to the requirements of this subpart and the following:

(1) No defect is permitted that is likely to weaken the finished cylinder appreciably. A reasonably smooth and uniform surface is required. Exposed bottom welds on cylinders over 18 inches long must be protected by footrings. Minimum thickness of heads may not be less than 90 percent of the required thickness of the sidewall. Heads must be concave to pressure.

(2) Circumferential seams must be by electric-arc welding. Joints must be butt with one member offset (joggle butt) or with a lap joint. Joints must have a minimum overlap of at least four (4) times nominal sheet thickness.

(3) Longitudinal electric-arc welded seams (in shells) must be of the butt welded type. Welds must be made by a machine process including automatic feed and welding guidance mechanisms. Longitudinal seams must have complete joint penetration, and must be free from undercuts, overlaps or abrupt ridges or valleys. Misalignment of mating butt edges may not exceedinch of nominal sheet thickness orinch whichever is less. All joints with nominal sheet thickness up to and includinginch must be tightly butted. When nominal sheet thickness is greater thaninch, the joint must be gapped with maximum distance equal to one-half the nominal sheet thickness orinch whichever is less. Joint design, preparation, and fit-up must be such that requirements of this paragraph (d) are satisfied.

(4) Welding procedures and operators must be qualified in accordance with CGA C-3 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(5)(i) Welds of the cylinders must be subjected to radioscopic or radiographic examination as follows:

(ii) Radioscopy or radiography must be in conformance with CGA C-3 (IBR; see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). Maximum joint efficiency will be 1.0 when each longitudinal seam is examined completely. Maximum joint efficiency will be 0.90 when one cylinder from each lot of 50 consecutively welded cylinders is spot examined. In addition, one out of the first five cylinders welded following a shutdown of welding operations exceeding four hours must be spot examined. Spot radiographs, when required, must be made of a finished welded cylinder and must include the circumferential weld for 2 inches in both directions from the intersection of the longitudinal and circumferential welds and include at least 6 inches of the longitudinal weld. Maximum joint efficiency of 0.75 will be permissible without radiography or radioscopy. When fluoroscopic examination is used, permanent film records need not be retained. Circumferential welds need not be examined, except as part of spot examination.
