
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.61 Specification 4BW welded steel cylinders with electric-arc welded seam.
######## Mechanical tests.

(j)Mechanical tests must be conducted to determine yield strength, tensile strength, elongation as a percentage, and reduction of area of material as a percentage, as follows:

(1) Specimens must be taken from one cylinder after heat treatment as illustrated in appendix A to this subpart, chosen at random from each lot of 200 or fewer, as follows:

(i) One specimen must be taken longitudinally from the body section at least 90 degrees away from the weld.

(ii) One specimen must be taken from either head on a cylinder when both heads are made of the same material. However, if the two heads are made of differing materials, a specimen must be taken from each head.

(iii) If due to welded attachments on the top head there is insufficient surface from which to take a specimen, it may be taken from a representative head of the same heat treatment as the test cylinder.

(2) Specimens must conform to the following:

(i) When a cylinder wall isinch thick or less, one the following gauge lengths is authorized: A gauge length of 8 inches with a width not over 1inches, a gauge length of 2 inches with a width not over 1inches, or a gauge length at least twenty-four (24) times the thickness with a width not over six (6) times the thickness.

(ii) The specimen, exclusive of grip ends, may not be flattened. Grip ends may be flattened to within 1 inch of each end of the reduced section.

(iii) When size of the cylinder does not permit securing straight specimens, the specimens may be taken in any location or direction and may be straightened or flattened cold, by pressure only, not by blows. When specimens are taken, and prepared in this manner, the inspector's report must show, in connection with the record of physical tests, detailed information in regard to such specimens.

(iv) Heating of a specimen for any purpose is not authorized.

(3) The yield strength in tension must be the stress corresponding to a permanent strain of 0.2 percent of the gauge length. The following conditions apply:

(i) The yield strength must be determined by either the "off-set" method or the "extension under load" method as prescribed in ASTM E 8 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) In using the "extension under load" method, the total strain (or "extension under load"), corresponding to the stress at which the 0.2-percent permanent strain occurs may be determined with sufficient accuracy by calculating the elastic extension of the gauge length under appropriate load and adding thereto 0.2 percent of the gauge length. Elastic extension calculations must be based on an elastic modulus of 30,000,000. In the event of controversy, the entire stress-strain diagram must be plotted and the yield strength determined from the 0.2-percent offset.

(iii) For strain measurement, the initial strain reference must be set while the specimen is under a stress of 12,000 psig, and the strain indicator reading must be set at the calculated corresponding strain.

(iv) Cross-head speed of the testing machine may not exceedinch per minute during yield strength determination.
