
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.61 Specification 4BW welded steel cylinders with electric-arc welded seam.
######## Markings.

(n)(1) Markings must be as required in ยง 178.35 and in addition must be stamped plainly and permanently in one of the following locations on the cylinder:

(i) On shoulders and top heads whose wall thickness is not less than 0.087 inch thick.

(ii) On side wall adjacent to top head for side walls not less than 0.090 inch thick.

(iii) On a cylindrical portion of the shell that extends beyond the recessed bottom of the cylinder constituting an integral and non-pressure part of the cylinder.

(iv) On a plate attached to the top of the cylinder or permanent part thereof; sufficient space must be left on the plate to provide for stamping at least six retest dates; the plate must be at least-inch thick and must be attached by welding at a temperature of 1,100 &#xB0;F, throughout all edges of the plate.

(v) On the neck, neckring, valve boss, valve protection sleeve, or similar part permanently attached to the top of the cylinder.

(vi) On the footring permanently attached to the cylinder, provided the water capacity of the cylinder does not exceed 30 pounds.

(2) Embossing the cylinder head or side wall is not permitted.
