
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.65 Specification 39 non-reusable (non-refillable) cylinders.
######## Manufacture.

(c)(1) General manufacturing requirements are as follows:

(i) The surface finish must be uniform and reasonably smooth.

(ii) Inside surfaces must be clean, dry, and free of loose particles.

(iii) No defect of any kind is permitted if it is likely to weaken a finished cylinder.

(2) Requirements for seams:

(i) Brazing is not authorized on aluminum cylinders.

(ii) Brazing material must have a melting point of not lower than 1,000 &#xB0;F.

(iii) Brazed seams must be assembled with proper fit to ensure complete penetration of the brazing material throughout the brazed joint.

(iv) Minimum width of brazed joints must be at least four times the thickness of the shell wall.

(v) Brazed seams must have design strength equal to or greater than 1.5 times the minimum strength of the shell wall.

(vi) Welded seams must be properly aligned and welded by a method that provides clean, uniform joints with adequate penetration.

(vii) Welded joints must have a strength equal to or greater than the minimum strength of the shell material in the finished cylinder.

(3) Attachments to the cylinder are permitted by any means which will not be detrimental to the integrity of the cylinder. Welding or brazing of attachments to the cylinder must be completed prior to all pressure tests.

(4) Welding procedures and operators must be qualified in accordance with CGA Pamphlet C-3 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).
