
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.65 Specification 39 non-reusable (non-refillable) cylinders.
######## Pressure testing.

(f)(1) Each cylinder must be proof pressure tested as prescribed in CGA C-1 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). The minimum test pressure must be maintained for the specific timeframe and the testing equipment must be calibrated as prescribed in CGA C-1. All testing equipment and pressure indicating devices must be accurate within the parameters defined in CGA C-1.

(i) The leakage test must be conducted by submersion under water or by some other method that will be equally sensitive.

(ii) If the cylinder leaks, evidences visible distortion or evidences any other defect while under test, it must be rejected (see paragraph (h) of this section).

(iii) If, due to failure of the test apparatus or operator error, the test pressure cannot be maintained, the test may be repeated in accordance with CGA, C-1 section 7.1.2.

(2) One cylinder taken from the beginning of each lot, and one from each 1,000 or less successively produced within the lot thereafter, must be hydrostatically tested to destruction. The testing equipment must be calibrated as prescribed in CGA C-1. All testing equipment and pressure indicating devices must be accurate within the parameters defined in CGA C-1. The entire lot must be rejected (see paragraph (h) of this section) if:

(i) A failure occurs at a gage pressure less than 2.0 times the test pressure;

(ii) A failure initiates in a braze or a weld or the heat affected zone thereof;

(iii) A failure is other than in the sidewall of a cylinder longitudinal with its long axis; or

(iv) In a sphere, a failure occurs in any opening, reinforcement, or at a point of attachment.

(3) A "lot" is defined as the quantity of cylinders successively produced per production shift (not exceeding 10 hours) having identical size, design, construction, material, heat treatment, finish, and quality.
