
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.65 Specification 39 non-reusable (non-refillable) cylinders.
######## Markings.

(i)(1) The markings required by this section must be durable and waterproof. The requirements of ยง 178.35(h) do not apply to this section.

(2) Required markings are as follows:

(i) DOT-39.

(ii) NRC.

(iii) The service pressure.

(iv) The test pressure.

(v) The registration number (M****) of the manufacturer.

(vi) The lot number.

(vii) The date of manufacture if the lot number does not establish the date of manufacture.

(viii) With one of the following statements:

(A) For cylinders manufactured prior to October 1, 1996: "Federal law forbids transportation if refilled-penalty up to $25,000 fine and 5 years imprisonment (49 U.S.C. 1809)" or "Federal law forbids transportation if refilled-penalty up to $500,000 fine and 5 years imprisonment (49 U.S.C. 5124)."

(B) For cylinders manufactured on or after October 1, 1996: "Federal law forbids transportation if refilled-penalty up to $500,000 fine and 5 years imprisonment (49 U.S.C. 5124)."

(3) The markings required by paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (i)(2)(v) of this section must be in numbers and letters at leastinch high and displayed sequentially. For example:

(4) No person may mark any cylinder with the specification identification "DOT-39" unless it was manufactured in compliance with the requirements of this section and its manufacturer has a registration number (M****) from the Associate Administrator.
