
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.68 Specification 4E welded aluminum cylinders.
######## Mechanical test.

(j)A mechanical test must be conducted to determine yield strength, tensile strength, elongation as a percentage, and reduction of area of material as a percentage as follows:

(1) The test is required on two (2) specimens removed from one cylinder or part thereof as illustrated in appendix A to this subpart taken at random out of each lot of 200 or fewer.

(2) Specimens must conform to the following:

(i) A gauge length of 8 inches with a width not over 1inches, a gauge length of 2 inches with a width not over 1inches.

(ii) The specimen, exclusive of grip ends, may not be flattened. Grip ends may be flattened to within 1 inch of each end of the reduced section.

(iii) When size of cylinder does not permit securing straight specimens, the specimens may be taken in any location or direction and may be straightened or flattened cold, by pressure only, not by blows; when specimens are so taken and prepared, the inspector's report must show in connection with record of physical test detailed information in regard to such specimens.

(iv) Heating of a specimen for any purpose is not authorized.

(3) The yield strength in tension must be the stress corresponding to a permanent strain of 0.2 percent of the gauge length. The following conditions apply:

(i) The yield strength must be determined by the "offset" method as prescribed in ASTM E 8 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) Cross-head speed of the testing machine may not exceedinch per minute during yield strength determination.
