
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.70 Approval of UN pressure receptacles.
######## IIA pre-audit.

(b)The manufacturer must submit an application for initial design type approval to the IIA for review. The IIA will examine the manufacturer's application for initial design type approval for completeness. An incomplete application will be returned to the manufacturer with an explanation. If an application is complete, the IIA will review all technical documentation, including drawings and calculations, to verify that the design meets all requirements of the applicable UN pressure receptacle standard and specification requirements. If the technical documentation shows that the pressure receptacle prototype design conforms to the applicable standards and requirements in ยง 178.70, the manufacturer will fabricate a prototype lot of pressure receptacles in conformance with the technical documentation representative of the design. The IIA will verify that the prototype lot conforms to the applicable requirements by selecting pressure receptacles and witnessing their testing. After prototype testing has been satisfactorily completed, showing the pressure receptacles fully conform to all applicable specification requirements, the certifying IIA must prepare a letter of recommendation and a design type approval certificate. The design type approval certificate must contain the name and address of the manufacturer and the IIA certifying the design type, the test results, chemical analyses, lot identification, and all other supporting data specified in the applicable ISO design, construction and testing standard. The IIA must provide the certificate and documentation to the manufacturer.
