
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.70 Approval of UN pressure receptacles.
######## Application for initial design type approval.

(c)If the pre-audit is found satisfactory by the IIA, the manufacturer will submit the letter of recommendation from the IIA and an application for design type approval to the Associate Administrator. An application for initial design type approval must be submitted for each manufacturing facility. The application must be in English and, at a minimum, contain the following information:

(1) The name and address of the manufacturing facility. If the application is submitted by an authorized representative on behalf of the manufacturer, the application must include the representative's name and address.

(2) The name and title of the individual responsible for the manufacturer's quality system, as required by ยง 178.69.

(3) The designation of the pressure receptacle and the relevant pressure receptacle standard.

(4) Details of any refusal of approval of a similar application by a designated approval agency of another country.

(5) The name and address of the production IIA that will perform the functions prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section. The IIA must be approved in writing by the Associate Administrator in accordance with subpart I of part 107 of this chapter.

(6) Documentation on the manufacturing facility as specified in ยง 178.69.

(7) Design specifications and manufacturing drawings, showing components and subassemblies if relevant, design calculations, and material specifications necessary to verify compliance with the applicable pressure receptacle design standard.

(8) Manufacturing procedures and any applicable standards that describe in detail the manufacturing processes and control.

(9) Design type approval test reports detailing the results of examinations and tests conducted in accordance with the relevant pressure receptacle standard, to include any additional data, such as suitability for underwater applications or compatibility with hydrogen embrittlement gases.
