
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.70 Approval of UN pressure receptacles.
######## Production inspection audit and certification.

(f)(1) If the application, design drawing and quality control documents are found satisfactory, PHMSA will schedule an on-site audit of the pressure receptacle manufacturer's quality system, manufacturing processes, inspections, and test procedures.

(2) During the audit, the manufacturer will be required to produce pressure receptacles to the technical standards for which approval is sought.

(3) The production IIA must witness the required inspections and verifications on the pressure receptacles during the production run. The IIA selected by the manufacturer for production inspection and testing may be different from the IIA who performed the design type approval verifications.

(4) If the procedures and controls are deemed acceptable, test sample pressure receptacles will be selected at random from the production lot and sent to a laboratory designated by the Associate Administrator for verification testing.

(5) If the pressure receptacle test samples are found to conform to all the applicable requirements, the Associate Administrator will issue approvals to the manufacturer and the production IIA to authorize the manufacture of the pressure receptacles. The approved design type approval certificate will be returned to the manufacturer.

(6) Upon the receipt of the approved design type approval certificate from the Associate Administrator, the pressure receptacle manufacturer must sign the certificate.
