
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### § 178.71 Specifications for UN pressure receptacles.
######## see,see,see,see,see

(2) Service equipment must be configured, or designed, to prevent damage that could result in the release of the pressure receptacle contents during normal conditions of handling and transport. Manifold piping leading to shut-off valves must be sufficiently flexible to protect the valves and the piping from shearing or releasing the pressure receptacle contents. The filling and discharge valves and any protective caps must be secured against unintended opening. The valves must conform to ISO 10297:2014(E) and ISO 10297:2014/Amd 1:2017(E) (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter), or for non-refillable pressure receptacles valves manufactured until December 31, 2020, ISO 13340:2001(E), and be protected as specified in § 173.301b(f) of this subchapter. Until December 31, 2022, the manufacture of a valve conforming to the requirements of ISO 10297:2014(E) is authorized. Until December 31, 2020, the manufacture of a valve conforming to the requirements in ISO 10297:2006(E) (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter) was authorized. Until December 31, 2008, the manufacture of a valve conforming to the requirements in ISO 10297:1999(E) (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter) was authorized. Additionally, valves must be initially inspected and tested in accordance with ISO 14246:2014(E) and ISO 14246:2014/Amd 1:2017(E), (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter). For self-closing valves with inherent protection, the requirements of ISO 17879:2017(E) (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter) shall be met until further notice.

(3) UN pressure receptacles that cannot be handled manually or rolled, must be equipped with devices (e.g., skids, rings, straps) ensuring that they can be safely handled by mechanical means and so arranged as not to impair the strength of, nor cause undue stresses, in the pressure receptacle.

(4) Pressure receptacles filled by volume must be equipped with a level indicator.
