
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.71 Specifications for UN pressure receptacles.
######## Bundles of cylinders.

(e)UN pressure receptacles assembled in bundles must be structurally supported and held together as a unit and secured in a manner that prevents movement in relation to the structural assembly and movement that would result in the concentration of harmful local stresses. The frame design must ensure stability under normal operating conditions.

(1) The frame must securely retain all the components of the bundle and must protect them from damage during conditions normally incident to transportation. The method of cylinder restraint must prevent any vertical or horizontal movement or rotation of the cylinder that could cause undue strain on the manifold. The total assembly must be able to withstand rough handling, including being dropped or overturned.

(2) The frame must include features designed for the handling and transportation of the bundle. The lifting rings must be designed to withstand a design load of 2 times the maximum gross weight. Bundles with more than one lifting ring must be designed such that a minimum sling angle of 45 degrees to the horizontal can be achieved during lifting using the lifting rings. If four lifting rings are used, their design must be strong enough to allow the bundle to be lifted by two rings. Where two or four lifting rings are used, diametrically opposite lifting rings must be aligned with each other to allow for correct lifting using shackle pins. If the bundle is filled with forklift pockets, it must contain two forklift pockets on each side from which it is to be lifted. The forklift pockets must be positioned symmetrically consistent with the bundle center of gravity.

(3) The frame structural members must be designed for a vertical load of 2 times the maximum gross weight of the bundle. Design stress levels may not exceed 0.9 times the yield strength of the material.

(4) The frame must not contain any protrusions from the exterior frame structure that could cause a hazardous condition.

(5) The frame design must prevent collection of water or other debris that would increase the tare weight of bundles filled by weight.

(6) The floor of the bundle frame must not buckle during normal operating conditions and must allow for the drainage of water and debris from around the base of the cylinders.

(7) If the frame design includes movable doors or covers, they must be capable of being secured with latches or other means that will not become dislodged by operational impact loads. Valves that need to be operated in normal service or in an emergency must be accessible.

(8) For bundles of cylinders, pressure receptacle marking requirements only apply to the individual cylinders of a bundle and not to any assembly structure.
