
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### § 178.71 Specifications for UN pressure receptacles.
######## Design and construction requirements for UN acetylene cylinders.

(k)In addition to the general requirements of this section, UN acetylene cylinders must conform to the following ISO standards, as applicable:

(1) For the cylinder shell:

(i) ISO 9809-1:2010 Gas cylinders-Refillable seamless steel gas cylinders-Design, construction and testing-Part 1: Quenched and tempered steel cylinders with tensile strength less than 1100 MPa. Until December 31, 2018, the manufacture of a cylinder conforming to the requirements in ISO 9809-1:1999 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) is authorized.

(ii) ISO 9809-3: Gas cylinders-Refillable seamless steel gas cylinders-Design, construction and testing-Part 3: Normalized steel cylinders. Until December 31, 2018, the manufacture of a cylinder conforming to the requirements in ISO 9809-3:2000 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) is authorized.

(2) The porous mass in an acetylene cylinder must conform to ISO 3807:2013(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2020, the manufacture of a cylinder conforming to the requirements in ISO 3807-2(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) is authorized.
