
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### § 178.71 Specifications for UN pressure receptacles.
######## Design and construction requirements for UN composite cylinders and tubes.

(l)(1) In addition to the general requirements of this section, UN composite cylinders and tubes must be designed for a design life of not less than 15 years. Composite cylinders and tubes with a design life longer than 15 years must not be filled after 15 years from the date of manufacture, unless the design has successfully passed a service life test program. The service life test program must be part of the initial design type approval and must specify inspections and tests to demonstrate that cylinders manufactured accordingly remain safe to the end of their design life. The service life test program and the results must be approved by the competent authority of the country of approval that is responsible for the initial approval of the cylinder design. The service life of a composite cylinder or tube must not be extended beyond its initial approved design life. Additionally, composite cylinders and tubes must conform to the following ISO standards, as applicable:

(i) ISO 11119-1:2012(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2020, cylinders conforming to the requirements in ISO 11119-1(E), (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) are authorized.

(ii) ISO 11119-2:2012(E) (ISO 11119-2:2012/Amd.1:2014(E)) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2020, cylinders conforming to the requirements in ISO 11119-2(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) are authorized.

(iii) ISO 11119-3:2013(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2020, cylinders conforming to the requirements in ISO 11119-3(E) (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) are authorized.
