
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.71 Specifications for UN pressure receptacles.
######## Marking of UN refillable pressure receptacles.

(q)UN refillable pressure receptacles must be marked clearly and legibly. The required markings must be permanently affixed by stamping, engraving, or other equivalent method, on the shoulder, top end or neck of the pressure receptacle or on a permanently affixed component of the pressure receptacle, such as a welded collar. Except for the "UN" mark, the minimum size of the marks must be 5 mm for pressure receptacles with a diameter greater than or equal to 140 mm, and 2.5 mm for pressure receptacles with a diameter less than 140 mm. The minimum size of the "UN" mark must be 5 mm for pressure receptacles with a diameter less than 140 mm, and 10 mm for pressure receptacles with a diameter of greater than or equal to 140 mm. The depth of the markings must not create harmful stress concentrations. A refillable pressure receptacle conforming to the UN standard must be marked as follows:

(1) The UN packaging symbol.

(2) The ISO standard, for example ISO 9809-1, used for design, construction and testing. Acetylene cylinders must be marked to indicate the porous mass and the steel shell, for example: "ISO 3807-2/ISO 9809-1."

(3) The mark of the country where the approval is granted. The letters "USA" must be marked on UN pressure receptacles approved by the United States. The manufacturer must obtain an approval number from the Associate Administrator. The manufacturer approval number must follow the country of approval mark, separated by a slash (for example, USA/MXXXX). Pressure receptacles approved by more than one national authority may contain the mark of each country of approval, separated by a comma.

(4) The identity mark or stamp of the IIA.

(5) The date of the initial inspection, the year (four digits) followed by the month (two digits) separated by a slash, for example "2006/04".

(6) The test pressure in bar, preceded by the letters "PH" and followed by the letters "BAR".

(7) The rated charging pressure of the metal hydride storage system in bar, preceded by the letters "RCP" and followed by the letters "BAR."
