
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.71 Specifications for UN pressure receptacles.
######## etc.

(8) The empty or tare weight. Except for acetylene cylinders, empty weight is the mass of the pressure receptacle in kilograms, including all integral parts (e.g., collar, neck ring, foot ring,), followed by the letters "KG". The empty weight does not include the mass of the valve, valve cap or valve guard or any coating. The empty weight must be expressed to three significant figures rounded up to the last digit. For cylinders of less than 1 kg, the empty weight must be expressed to two significant figures rounded down to the last digit. For acetylene cylinders, the tare weight must be marked on the cylinders in kilograms. The tare weight is the sum of the empty weight, mass of the valve, any coating and all permanently attached parts (e.g., fittings and accessories) that are not removed during filling. The tare weight must be expressed to two significant figures rounded down to the last digit. The tare weight does not include the cylinder cap or any outlet cap or plug not permanently attached to the cylinder.

(9) The minimum wall thickness of the pressure receptacle in millimeters followed by the letters "MM". This mark is not required for pressure receptacles with a water capacity less than or equal to 1.0 L or for composite cylinders.

(10) For pressure receptacles intended for the transport of compressed gases and UN 1001 acetylene, dissolved, the working pressure in bar, proceeded by the letters "PW".

(11) For liquefied gases, the water capacity in liters expressed to three significant digits rounded down to the last digit, followed by the letter "L". If the value of the minimum or nominal water capacity is an integer, the digits after the decimal point may be omitted.
