
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.71 Specifications for UN pressure receptacles.
######## Marking of bundles of cylinders.

(u)(1) Individual cylinders in a bundle of cylinders must be marked in accordance with paragraphs (q), (r), (s) and (t) of this section as appropriate.

(2) Refillable UN bundles of cylinders must be marked clearly and legibly with certification, operational, and manufacturing marks. These marks must be permanently affixed (e.g., stamped, engraved, or etched) on a plate permanently attached to the frame of the bundle of cylinders. Except for the "UN" mark, the minimum size of the marks must be 5 mm. The minimum size of the "UN" mark must be 10 mm. A refillable UN bundle of cylinders must be marked with the following:

(i) The UN packaging symbol;

(ii) The ISO standard, for example ISO 9809-1, used for design, construction and testing. Acetylene cylinders must be marked to indicate the porous mass and the steel shell, for example: "ISO 3807-2/ISO 9809-1";

(iii) The mark of the country where the approval is granted. The letters "USA" must be marked on UN pressure receptacles approved by the United States. The manufacturer must obtain an approval number from the Associate Administrator. The manufacturer approval number must follow the country of approval mark, separated by a slash (for example, USA/MXXXX). Pressure receptacles approved by more than one national authority may contain the mark of each country of approval, separated by a comma;

(iv) The identity mark or stamp of the IIA;

(v) The date of the initial inspection, the year in four digits followed by the two digit month separated by a slash, for example "2006/04";

(vi) The test pressure in bar, preceded by the letters "PH" and followed by the letters "BAR";

(vii) For pressure receptacles intended for the transport of compressed gases and UN 1001 acetylene, dissolved, the working pressure in bar, proceeded by the letters "PW";

(viii) For liquefied gases, the water capacity in liters expressed to three significant digits rounded down to the last digit, followed by the letter "L". If the value of the minimum or nominal water capacity is an integer, the digits after the decimal point may be omitted;

(ix) The total mass of the frame of the bundle and all permanently attached parts (cylinders, manifolds, fittings and valves). Bundles intended for the carriage of UN 1001 acetylene, dissolved must bear the tare mass as specified in clause N.4.2 of ISO 10961:2010;

(x) The country of manufacture. The letters "USA" must be marked on cylinders manufactured in the United States;

(xi) The serial number assigned by the manufacturer; and

(xii) For steel pressure receptacles, the letter "H" showing compatibility of the steel, as specified in 1SO 11114-1.
