
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### § 178.74 Approval of MEGCs.
######## Approval agency's responsibilities.

(c)The approval agency is responsible for ensuring that the MEGC conforms to the design type approval. The approval agency must:

(1) Witness all tests required for the approval of the MEGC specified in this section and § 178.75.

(2) Ensure, through appropriate inspection, that each MEGC is fabricated in all respects in conformance with the approved drawings, calculations, and test data.

(3) Determine and ensure that the MEGC is suitable for its intended use and that it conforms to the requirements of this subchapter.

(4) Apply its name, identifying mark or identifying number, and the date the approval was issued, to the metal identification marking plate attached to the MEGC upon successful completion of all requirements of this subpart. Any approvals by the Associate Administrator authorizing design or construction alternatives (Alternate Arrangements) of the MEGC (see paragraph (a) of this section) must be indicated on the metal identification plate as specified in § 178.75(j).

(5) Prepare an approval certificate for each MEGC or, in the case of a series of identical MEGCs manufactured to a single design type, for each series of MEGCs. The approval certificate must include all of the following information:

(i) The information displayed on the metal identification plate required by § 178.75(j);

(ii) The results of the applicable framework test specified in ISO 1496-3 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter);

(iii) The results of the initial inspection and test specified in paragraph (h) of this section;

(iv) The results of the impact test specified in § 178.75(i)(4);

(v) Certification documents verifying that the cylinders and tubes conform to the applicable standards; and

(vi) A statement that the approval agency certifies the MEGC in accordance with the procedures in this section and that the MEGC is suitable for its intended purpose and meets the requirements of this subchapter. When a series of MEGCs is manufactured without change in the design type, the certificate may be valid for the entire series of MEGCs representing a single design type. The approval number must consist of the distinguishing sign or mark of the country ("USA" for the United States of America) where the approval was granted and a registration number.

(6) Retain on file a copy of each approval certificate for at least 20 years.
