
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### ยง 178.74 Approval of MEGCs.
######## Modifications to approved MEGCs.

(g)(1) Prior to modification of any approved MEGC that may affect conformance and safe use, and that may involve a change to the design type or affect its ability to retain the hazardous material in transportation, the MEGC's owner must inform the approval agency that prepared the initial approval certificate for the MEGC or, if the initial approval agency is unavailable, another approval agency, of the nature of the modification and request certification of the modification. The owner must supply the approval agency with all revised drawings, calculations, and test data relative to the intended modification. The MEGC's owner must also provide a statement as to whether the intended modification has been examined and determined to be unacceptable by any approval agency. The written statement must include the name of the approval agency, the reason for non-acceptance, and the nature of changes made to the modification since its original rejection.

(2) The approval agency must review the request for modification. If the approval agency determines that the proposed modification does not conform to the relevant specification, the approval agency must reject the request in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. If the approval agency determines that the proposed modification conforms fully with the relevant specification, the request is accepted. If modification to an approved MEGC alters any information on the approval certificate, the approval agency must prepare a new approval certificate for the modified MEGC and submit the certificate to the Associate Administrator for approval. After receiving approval from the Associate Administrator, the approval agency must ensure that any necessary changes are made to the metal identification plate. A copy of each newly issued approval certificate must be retained by the approval agency and the MEGC's owner for at least 20 years. The approval agency must perform the following activities:

(i) Retain a set of the approved revised drawings, calculations, and data as specified in ยง 178.69(b)(4) for at least 20 years;

(ii) Ensure through appropriate inspection that all modifications conform to the revised drawings, calculations, and test data; and

(iii) Determine the extent to which retesting of the modified MEGC is necessary based on the nature of the proposed modification, and ensure that all required retests are satisfactorily performed.
