
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Cylinders
####### § 178.75 Specifications for MEGCs.
######## General design and construction requirements.

(d)(1) The MEGC must be capable of being loaded and discharged without the removal of its structural equipment. It must possess stabilizing members external to the pressure receptacles to provide structural integrity for handling and transport. MEGCs must be designed and constructed with supports to provide a secure base during transport and with lifting and tie-down attachments that are adequate for lifting the MEGC including when loaded to its maximum permissible gross mass. The MEGC must be designed to be loaded onto a transport vehicle or vessel and equipped with skids, mountings or accessories to facilitate mechanical handling.

(2) MEGCs must be designed, manufactured and equipped to withstand, without loss of contents, all normal handling and transportation conditions. The design must take into account the effects of dynamic loading and fatigue.

(3) Each pressure receptacle of a MEGC must be of the same design type, seamless steel, or composite, and constructed and tested according to one of the following ISO standards, as appropriate:

(i) ISO 9809-1: Gas cylinders-Refillable seamless steel gas cylinders-Design, construction and testing-Part 1: Quenched and tempered steel cylinders with tensile strength less than 1100 MPa. (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2018, the manufacture of a cylinder conforming to the requirements in ISO 9809-1:1999 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) is authorized;

(ii) ISO 9809-2: Gas cylinders-Refillable seamless steel gas cylinders-Design, construction and testing-Part 2: Quenched and tempered steel cylinders with tensile strength greater than or equal to 1100 MPa. (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2018, the manufacture of a cylinder conforming to the requirements in ISO 9809-2:2000 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) is authorized;

(iii) ISO 9809-3: Gas cylinders-Refillable seamless steel gas cylinders-Design, construction and testing-Part 3: Normalized steel cylinders. (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Until December 31, 2018, the manufacture of a cylinder conforming to the requirements in ISO 9809-3:2000 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) is authorized; or

(iv) ISO 9809-4:2014(E) Gas cylinders-Refillable seamless steel gas cylinders-Design, construction and testing-Part 4: Stainless steel cylinders with an Rm value of less than 1 100 MPa (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).
