
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart H - Specifications for Portable Tanks
####### § 178.273 Approval of Specification UN portable tanks.
######## Action by approval agency.

(b)The approval agency must perform the following activities:

(1) Review the application for approval to determine whether it is complete and conforms with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. If an application is incomplete, it will be returned to the applicant with an explanation as to why the application is incomplete.

(2) Review all drawings and calculations to ensure that the design is in compliance with all requirements of the relevant specification. If the application is approved, one set of the approved drawings, calculations, and test data shall be returned to the applicant. The second (inspector's copy) set of approved drawings, calculations, and test data shall be retained by the approval agency. Maintain drawings and approval records for as long as the portable tank remains in service. The drawings and records must be provided to the Department of Transportation (DOT) upon request.

(3) Witness all tests required for the approval of the portable tank specified in this section and part 180, subpart G of this subchapter.

(4) Ensure, through appropriate inspection that each portable tank is fabricated in all respects in conformance with the approved drawings, calculations, and test data.

(5) Determine and ensure that the portable tank is suitable for its intended use and that it conforms to the requirements of this subchapter.

(6) For UN portable tanks intended for non-refrigerated and refrigerated liquefied gases and Division 6.1 liquids which meet the inhalation toxicity criteria (Zone A or B) as defined in § 173.132 of this subchapter, or that are designated as toxic by inhalation materials in the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter, the approval agency must ensure that:

(i) The portable tank has been designed, constructed, certified, and stamped in accordance with the requirements in Division 1 of Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Other design codes may be used if approved by the Associate Administrator (see § 178.274(b)(1));

(ii) All applicable provisions of the design and construction have been met to the satisfaction of the designated approval agency in accordance with the rules established in the ASME Code and that the portable tank meets the requirements of the ASME Code and all the applicable requirements specified in this subchapter;

(iii) The inspector has carried out all the inspections specified by the rules established in the ASME Code; and

(iv) The portable tank is marked with a U stamp code symbol under the authority of the authorized independent inspector.

(7) Upon successful completion of all requirements of this subpart, the approval agency must:

(i) Apply its name, identifying mark or identifying number, and the date upon which the approval was issued, to the metal identification marking plate attached to the portable tank. Any approvals for UN portable tanks authorizing design or construction alternatives (Alternate Arrangements) approved by the Associate Administrator (see § 178.274(a)(2)) must be indicated on the plate as specified in § 178.274(i).

(ii) Issue an approval certificate for each portable tank or, in the case of a series of identical portable tanks manufactured to a single design type, for each series of portable tanks. The approval certificate must include all the information required to be displayed on the metal identification plate required by § 178.274(i). The approval certificate must certify that the approval agency designated to approve the portable tank has approved the portable tank in accordance with the procedures in subpart E of part 107 of this subchapter and that the portable tank is suitable for its intended purpose and meets the requirements of this subchapter. When a series of portable tanks is manufactured without change in the design type, the certificate may be valid for the entire series of portable tanks representing a single design type. For UN portable tanks, the certificate must refer to the prototype test report, the hazardous material or group of hazardous materials allowed to be transported, the materials of construction of the shell and lining (when applicable) and an approval number. The approval number must consist of the distinguishing sign or mark of the country ("USA" for the United States of America) where the approval was granted and a registration number.

(iii) Retain a copy of each approval certificate.

(8) For UN portable tanks, the approval certificate must also include the following:

(i) The results of the applicable framework and rail impact test specified in part 180, subpart G, of this subchapter; and

(ii) The results of the initial inspection and test in § 178.274(j).

(9) The approval agency shall be independent from the manufacturer. The approval agency and the authorized inspector may be the same entity.
