
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart H - Specifications for Portable Tanks
####### ยง 178.273 Approval of Specification UN portable tanks.
######## Manufacturers' responsibilities.

(c)The manufacturer is responsible for compliance with the applicable specifications for the design and construction of portable tanks. In addition to responsibility for compliance, manufacturers are responsible for ensuring that the contracted approval agency and authorized inspector, if applicable, are qualified, reputable and competent. The manufacturer of a portable tank shall-

(1) Comply with all the applicable requirements of the ASME Code and of this subpart including, but not limited to, ensuring that the quality control, design calculations and required tests are performed and that all aspects of the portable tank meet the applicable requirements.

(2) Obtain and use a designated approval agency, if applicable, and obtain and use a DOT-designated approval agency to approve the design, construction and certification of the portable tank.

(3) Provide a statement in the manufacturers' data report certifying that each portable tank that is manufactured complies with the relevant specification and all the applicable requirements of this subchapter.

(4) Maintain records of the qualification of portable tanks for at least 5 years and provide copies to the approval agency, the owner or lessee of the tank. Upon request, provide these records to a representative of DOT.
