
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart H - Specifications for Portable Tanks
####### ยง 178.273 Approval of Specification UN portable tanks.
######## Modifications to approved portable tanks.

(e)(1) Prior to modification of any UN portable tank which may affect conformance and the safe use of the portable tank, which may involve a change to the design type or which may affect its ability to retain hazardous material in transportation, the person desiring to make such modification shall inform the approval agency that issued the initial approval of the portable tank (or if unavailable, another approval agency) of the nature of the modification and request approval of the modification. The person desiring to modify the tank must supply the approval agency with three sets of all revised drawings, calculations, and test data relative to the intended modification.

(2) A statement as to whether the intended modification has been examined and determined to be unacceptable by any approval agency. The written statement must include the name of the approving agency, the reason for nonacceptance, and the nature of changes made to the modification since its original rejection.

(3) The approval agency shall review the request for modification, and if it is determined that the proposed modification is in full compliance with the relevant DOT specification, including a UN portable tank, the request shall be approved and the approval agency shall perform the following activities:

(i) Return one set of the approved revised drawings, calculations, and test data to the applicant. The second and third sets of the approved revised drawings, calculations, and data shall be retained by the approval agency as required in ยง 107.404(a)(3) of this subchapter.

(ii) Ensure through appropriate inspection that all modifications conform to the revised drawings, calculations, and test data.

(iii) Determine the extent to which retesting of the modified tank is necessary based on the nature of the proposed modification, and ensure that all required retests are satisfactorily performed.

(iv) If modification to an approved tank alters any information on the approval certificate, issue a new approval certificate for the modified tank and ensure that any necessary changes are made to the metal identification plate. A copy of each newly issued approval certificate shall be retained by the approval agency and by the owner of each portable tank.

(4) If the approval agency determines that the proposed modification is not in compliance with the relevant DOT specification, the approval agency shall deny the request in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
