
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart H - Specifications for Portable Tanks
####### ยง 178.274 Specifications for UN portable tanks.
######## Portable tank supports, frameworks, lifting and tie-down attachments.

(h)(1) Portable tanks must be designed and constructed with a support structure to provide a secure base during transport. The forces and safety factors specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, respectively, must be taken into account in this aspect of the design. Skids, frameworks, cradles or other similar structures are acceptable.

(2) The combined stresses caused by portable tank mountings (for example, cradles, framework, etc.) and portable tank lifting and tie-down attachments must not cause stress that would damage the shell in a manner that would compromise its lading retention capability. Permanent lifting and tie-down attachments must be fitted to all portable tanks. Preferably they should be fitted to the portable tank supports but may be secured to reinforcing plates located on the shell at the points of support. Each portable tank must be designed so that the center of gravity of the filled tank is approximately centered within the points of attachment for lifting devices.

(3) In the design of supports and frameworks, the effects of environmental corrosion must be taken into account.

(4) Forklift pockets must be capable of being closed off. The means of closing forklift pockets must be a permanent part of the framework or permanently attached to the framework. Single compartment portable tanks with a length less than 3.65 m (12 ft.) need not have forklift pockets that are capable of being closed off provided that:

(i) The shell, including all the fittings, are well protected from being hit by the forklift blades; and

(ii) The distance between forklift pockets (measured from the center of each pocket) is at least half of the maximum length of the portable tank.

(5) During transport, portable tanks must be adequately protected against damage to the shell, and service equipment resulting from lateral and longitudinal impact and overturning, or the shell and service equipment must be constructed to withstand the forces resulting from impact or overturning. External fittings must be protected so as to preclude the release of the shell contents upon impact or overturning of the portable tank on its fittings. Examples of protection include:

(i) Protection against lateral impact which may consist of longitudinal bars protecting the shell on both sides at the level of the median line;

(ii) Protection of the portable tank against overturning which may consist of reinforcement rings or bars fixed across the frame;

(iii) Protection against rear impact which may consist of a bumper or frame;

(iv) Protection of the shell against damage from impact or overturning by use of an ISO frame in accordance with ISO 1496-3 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter); and

(v) Protection of the portable tank from impact or damage that may result from overturning by an insulation jacket.
