
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart H - Specifications for Portable Tanks
####### ยง 178.275 Specification for UN Portable Tanks intended for the transportation of liquid and solid hazardous materials.
######## Bottom openings.

(d)(1) Certain hazardous materials may not be transported in portable tanks with bottom openings. When the applicable T code or portable tank special provision, as referenced for materials in the ยง 172.101 Table of this subchapter, specifies that bottom openings are prohibited, there must be no openings below the liquid level of the shell when it is filled to its maximum permissible filling limit. When an existing opening is closed, it must be accomplished by internally and externally welding one plate to the shell.

(2) Bottom discharge outlets for portable tanks carrying certain solid, crystallizable or highly viscous hazardous materials must be equipped with at least two serially fitted and mutually independent shut-off devices. Use of only two shut-off devices is only authorized when this paragraph is referenced in the applicable T Code indicated for each hazardous material in the ยง 172.101 Table of this subchapter. The design of the equipment must be to the satisfaction of the approval agency and must include:

(i) An external stop-valve fitted as close to the shell as reasonably practicable; and

(ii) A liquid tight closure at the end of the discharge pipe, which may be a bolted blank flange or a screw cap.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, every bottom discharge outlet must be equipped with three serially fitted and mutually independent shut-off devices. The design of the equipment must include:

(i) A self-closing internal stop-valve, which is a stop-valve within the shell or within a welded flange or its companion flange, such that:

(A) The control devices for the operation of the valve are designed to prevent any unintended opening through impact or other inadvertent act;

(B) The valve is operable from above or below;

(C) If possible, the setting of the valve (open or closed) must be capable of being verified from the ground;

(D) Except for portable tanks having a capacity less than 1,000 liters (264.2 gallons), it must be possible to close the valve from an accessible position on the portable tank that is remote from the valve itself within 30 seconds of actuation; and

(E) The valve must continue to be effective in the event of damage to the external device for controlling the operation of the valve;

(ii) An external stop-valve fitted as close to the shell as reasonably practicable;

(iii) A liquid tight closure at the end of the discharge pipe, which may be a bolted blank flange or a screw cap; and

(iv) For UN portable tanks, with bottom outlets, used for the transportation of liquid hazardous materials that are Class 3, PG I or II, or PG III with a flash point of less than 100 &#xB0;F (38 &#xB0;C); Division 5.1, PG I or II; or Division 6.1, PG I or II, the remote means of closure must be capable of thermal activation. The thermal means of activation must activate at a temperature of not more than 250 &#xB0;F (121 &#xB0;C).
