
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart H - Specifications for Portable Tanks
####### ยง 178.276 Requirements for the design, construction, inspection and testing of portable tanks intended for the transportation of non-refrigerated liquefied compressed gases.
######## Inlets and discharge outlets on chlorine portable tanks.

(7)The inlet and discharge outlets on portable tanks used to transport chlorine must meet the requirements of ยง 178.337-1(c)(2) and must be fitted with an internal excess flow valve. In addition to the internal excess flow valve, the inlet and discharge outlets must be equipped with an external stop valve (angle valve). Excess flow valves must conform to the standards of The Chlorine Institute, Inc. (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter) as follows:

(i) A valve conforming to Drawing 101-7, dated July 1993, must be installed under each liquid angle valve.

(ii) A valve conforming to Drawing 106-6, dated July 1993, must be installed under each gas angle valve. For portable tanks used to transport non-refrigerated liquefied gases.

(8) External fittings must be grouped together as close as reasonably practicable. The following openings may be installed at locations other than on the top or end of the tank:

(i) The openings for liquid level gauging devices, pressure gauges, or for safety devices, may be installed separately at the other location or in the side of the shell;

(ii) One plugged opening of 2-inch National Pipe Thread or less provided for maintenance purposes may be located elsewhere;

(iii) An opening of 3-inch National Pipe Size or less may be provided at another location, when necessary, to facilitate installation of condensing coils.

(9) Filling and discharge connections are not required to be grouped and may be installed below the normal liquid level of the tank if:

(i) The portable tank is permanently mounted in a full framework for containerized transport;

(ii) For each portable tank design, a prototype portable tank, meets the requirements of parts 450 through 453 of this title for compliance with the requirements of Annex II of the International Convention for Safe Containers; and

(iii) Each filling and discharge outlet meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
