
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart H - Specifications for Portable Tanks
####### § 178.277 Requirements for the design, construction, inspection and testing of portable tanks intended for the transportation of refrigerated liquefied gases.
######## General design and construction requirements.

(b)(1) Portable tanks must be of seamless or welded steel construction and have a water capacity of more than 450 liters (118.9 gallons). Portable tanks must be designed, constructed, certified and stamped in accordance with Section VIII of the ASME Code.

(2) Portable tanks must be postweld heat treated and radiographed as prescribed in Sections V and VIII of the ASME Code except that each tank constructed in accordance with part UHT in Section VIII of the ASME Code must be postweld heat treated. Where postweld heat treatment is required, the tank must be treated as a unit after completion of all the welds to the shell and heads. The method must be as prescribed in the ASME Code. Welded attachments to pads may be made after postweld heat treatment is made. The postweld heat treatment must be as prescribed in Section VIII of the ASME Code, but in no event at less than 1,050 &#xB0;F tank metal temperature.

(3) Welding procedure and welder performance tests must be made annually in accordance with Section IX of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). In addition to the essential variables named in the ASME Code, the following must be considered as essential variables: number of passes, thickness of plate, heat input per pass, and the specified rod and flux. The number of passes, thickness of plate and heat input per pass may not vary more than 25% from the procedure qualification. Records of the qualification must be retained for at least 5 years by the portable tank manufacturer and made available to the approval agency and the owner of the portable tank as specified in § 178.273.

(4) Shells and jackets must be made of metallic materials suitable for forming. Jackets must be made of steel. Non-metallic materials may be used for the attachments and supports between the shell and jacket, provided their material properties at the minimum design temperature are proven to be sufficient. In choosing the material, the minimum design temperature must be taken into account with respect to risk of brittle fracture, to hydrogen embrittlement, to stress corrosion cracking and to resistance to impact.

(5) Any part of a portable tank, including fittings, gaskets and pipe-work, which can be expected normally to come into contact with the refrigerated liquefied gas transported must be compatible with that refrigerated liquefied gas.

(6) The thermal insulation system must include a complete covering of the shell with effective insulating materials. External insulation must be protected by a jacket so as to prevent the ingress of moisture and other damage under normal transport conditions.

(7) When a jacket is so closed as to be gas-tight, a device must be provided to prevent any dangerous pressure from developing in the insulation space.

(8) Materials which may react with oxygen or oxygen enriched atmospheres in a dangerous manner may not be used in portable tanks intended for the transport of refrigerated liquefied gases having a boiling point below minus 182 &#xB0;C at atmospheric pressure in locations with the thermal insulation where there is a risk of contact with oxygen or with oxygen enriched fluid.

(9) Insulating materials must not deteriorate to an extent that the effectiveness of the insulation system, as determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(11) of this section, would be reduced in service.

(10) A reference holding time must be determined for each refrigerated liquefied gas intended for transport in a portable tank. The reference holding time must be determined by testing in accordance with the requirements of § 178.338-9, considering the following factors:

(i) The effectiveness of the insulation system, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(11) of this section;

(ii) The lowest set pressure of the pressure limiting device;

(iii) The initial filling conditions;

(iv) An assumed ambient temperature of 30 &#xB0;C (86 &#xB0;F);

(v) The physical properties of the individual refrigerated liquefied gas intended to be transported.

(11) The effectiveness of the insulation system (heat influx in watts) may be determined by type testing the portable tank in accordance with a procedure specified in § 178.338-9(c) or by using the holding time test in § 178.338-9(b). This test must consist of either:

(i) A constant pressure test (for example, at atmospheric pressure) when the loss of refrigerated liquefied gas is measured over a period of time; or

(ii) A closed system test when the rise in pressure in the shell is measured over a period of time.

(12) When performing the constant pressure test, variations in atmospheric pressure must be taken into account. When performing either test, corrections must be made for any variation of the ambient temperature from the assumed ambient temperature reference value of 30 &#xB0;C (86 &#xB0;F).

(13) The jacket of a vacuum-insulated double-wall tank must have either an external design pressure not less than 100 kPa (1 bar) gauge pressure calculated in accordance with Section VIII of the ASME Code or a calculated critical collapsing pressure of not less than 200 kPa (2 bar) gauge pressure. Internal and external reinforcements may be included in calculating the ability of the jacket to resist the external pressure.
