
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 22 - SHORT-TERM LENDING PROGRAM (STLP)
#### Subpart D - Loan Application Process
##### ยง 22.41 Application procedures.
###### http://osdbu.dot.gov/documents/pdf/stlp/stlpapp.pdf.

(a) A STLP loan guarantee request application package shall consist of the DOT OSDBU Application for Loan Guarantee and supporting documentation as outlined below at paragraph (b) of this section. The application may be obtained directly from the office of DOT OSDBU, from a current Participating Lender, or online from the agency's Web site, currently at

(b) Supporting documentation may include, but is not limited to, the following items: Business, trade or job performance reference letters; current DBE or SDB eligibility certification letters and/or affidavit; signed and dated borrower certification that all federal, state and local taxes are current; business tax returns; business financial statements; personal income tax returns; personal financial statements; schedule of work in progress; signed and dated copy of transportation-related contracts; business debt schedule; income and cash flow projections; and evidence of bonding and insurance. It also includes, from the Participating Lender, the lender's internal credit approval memo and analysis and other third-party credit verifications obtained.

(c) Application packages are submitted directly to a Participating Lender, which will perform its own credit review. The Participating Lender must initially approve or decline the loan based upon its internal analysis of the request. Loans approved by the Participating Lender are then forwarded to DOT OSDBU for its STLP eligibility review, independent credit review, and for presentation to the DOT OSDBU Loan Committee. All loan approvals shall require the final approval of the Director, or the Director's designee, for the issuance of a Government Loan Guarantee.
