
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.337-3 Structural integrity.
######## 4

() The bending moment generated by an accelerative force; and

(C) The tensile or compressive stress generated by the bending moment resulting from an extreme vertical accelerative force equal to 0.7 times the vertical reaction at the suspension assembly of a trailer, and the horizontal pivot of the upper coupler (fifth wheel) or turntable; or the anchoring and support members of a truck, as applicable. The vertical reaction must be calculated based on the static weight of the fully loaded cargo tank motor vehicle, all structural elements, equipment and appurtenances supported by the cargo tank wall.

(iv) S= The following shear stresses generated by static and extreme dynamic loading conditions, in psi:

(A) The static shear stress resulting from the vertical reaction at the suspension assembly of a trailer, and the horizontal pivot of the upper coupler (fifth wheel) or turntable; or anchoring and support members of a truck, as applicable. The vertical reaction must be calculated based on the static weight of the fully loaded cargo tank motor vehicle, all structural elements, equipment and appurtenances supported by the cargo tank wall;

(B) The vertical shear stress generated by an extreme vertical accelerative force equal to 0.7 times the vertical reaction at the suspension assembly of a trailer, and the horizontal pivot of the upper coupler (fifth wheel) or turntable; or anchoring and support members of a truck, as applicable. The vertical reaction must be calculated based on the static weight of the fully loaded cargo tank motor vehicle, all structural elements, equipment and appurtenances supported by the cargo tank wall;

(C) The lateral shear stress generated by an extreme lateral accelerative force equal to 0.4 times the vertical reaction at the suspension assembly of a trailer, applied at the road surface, and as transmitted to the cargo tank wall through the suspension assembly of a trailer, and the horizontal pivot of the upper coupler (fifth wheel) or turntable; or anchoring and support members of a truck, as applicable. The vertical reaction must be calculated based on the static weight of the fully loaded cargo tank motor vehicle, all structural elements, equipment and appurtenances supported by the cargo tank wall; and

(D) The torsional shear stress generated by the same lateral forces as described in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(C) of this section.

(d) In order to account for stresses due to impact in an accident, the design calculations for the cargo tank shell and heads must include the load resulting from the design pressure in combination with the dynamic pressure resulting from a longitudinal deceleration of "2g". For this loading condition the stress value used may not exceed the lesser of the yield strength or 75 percent of the ultimate tensile strength of the material of construction. For cargo tanks constructed of stainless steel the maximum design stress may not exceed 75 percent of the ultimate tensile strength of the type steel used.

(e) The minimum metal thickness for the shell and heads on tanks with a design pressure of 100 psig or more must be 4.75 mm (0.187 inch) for steel and 6.86 mm (0.270 inch) for aluminum, except for chlorine and sulfur dioxide tanks. In all cases, the minimum thickness of the tank shell and head shall be determined using structural design requirements in Section VIII of the ASME Code or 25% of the tensile strength of the material used. For a cargo tank used in chlorine or sulfur dioxide service, the cargo tank must be made of steel. A corrosion allowance of 20 percent or 2.54 mm (0.10 inch), whichever is less, must be added to the thickness otherwise required for sulfur dioxide and chlorine tank material. In chlorine cargo tanks, the wall thickness must be at least 1.59 cm (0.625 inch), including corrosion allowance.

(f) Where a cargo tank support is attached to any part of the cargo tank wall, the stresses imposed on the cargo tank wall must meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.

(g) The design, construction, and installation of an attachment, appurtenance to the cargo tank, structural support member between the cargo tank and the vehicle or suspension component, or accident protection device must conform to the following requirements:

(1) Structural members, the suspension sub-frame, accident protection structures, and external circumferential reinforcement devices must be used as sites for attachment of appurtenances and other accessories to the cargo tank, when practicable.

(2) A lightweight attachment to the cargo tank wall such as a conduit clip, brake line clip, skirting structure, lamp mounting bracket, or placard holder must be of a construction having lesser strength than the cargo tank wall materials and may not be more than 72 percent of the thickness of the material to which it is attached. The lightweight attachment may be secured directly to the cargo tank wall if the device is designed and installed in such a manner that, if damaged, it will not affect the lading retention integrity of the tank. A lightweight attachment must be secured to the cargo tank shell or head by a continuous weld or in such a manner as to preclude formation of pockets which may become sites for corrosion. Attachments meeting the requirements of this paragraph are not authorized for cargo tanks constructed under part UHT in Section VIII of the ASME Code.

(3) Except as prescribed in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, the welding of any appurtenance to the cargo tank wall must be made by attachment of a mounting pad so that there will be no adverse effect upon the lading retention integrity of the cargo tank if any force less than that prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is applied from any direction. The thickness of the mounting pad may not be less than that of the shell wall or head wall to which it is attached, and not more than 1.5 times the shell or head thickness. However, a pad with a minimum thickness of 0.25 inch may be used when the shell or head thickness is over 0.25 inch. If weep holes or tell-tale holes are used, the pad must be drilled or punched at the lowest point before it is welded to the tank. Each pad must-

(i) Be fabricated from material determined to be suitable for welding to both the cargo tank material and the material of the appurtenance or structural support member; a Design Certifying Engineer must make this determination considering chemical and physical properties of the materials and must specify filler material conforming to the requirements in Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) Be preformed to an inside radius no greater than the outside radius of the cargo tank at the attachment location.

(iii) Extend at least 2 inches in each direction from any point of attachment of an appurtenance or structural support member. This dimension may be measured from the center of the attached structural member.

(iv) Have rounded corners, or otherwise be shaped in a manner to minimize stress concentrations on the shell or head.

(v) Be attached by continuous fillet welding. Any fillet weld discontinuity may only be for the purpose of preventing an intersection between the fillet weld and a tank or jacket seam weld.
