
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.337-4 Joints.

(a) Joints shall be as required in Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter), with all undercutting in shell and head material repaired as specified therein.

(b) Welding procedure and welder performance must be in accordance with Section IX of the ASME Code. In addition to the essential variables named therein, the following must be considered as essential variables: Number of passes; thickness of plate; heat input per pass; and manufacturer's identification of rod and flux. When fabrication is done in accordance with part UHT in Section VIII of the ASME Code, filler material containing more than 0.08 percent vanadium must not be used. The number of passes, thickness of plate, and heat input per pass may not vary more than 25 percent from the procedure or welder qualifications. Records of the qualifications must be retained for at least 5 years by the cargo tank manufacturer and must be made available to duly identified representatives of the Department and the owner of the cargo tank.

(c) All longitudinal shell welds shall be located in the upper half of the cargo tank.

(d) Edge preparation of shell and head components may be by machine heat processes, provided such surfaces are remelted in the subsequent welding process. Where there will be no subsequent remelting of the prepared surface as in a tapered section, the final 0.050 inch of material shall be removed by mechanical means.

(e) The maximum tolerance for misalignment and butting up shall be in accordance with the requirement in Section VIII of the ASME Code.

(f) Substructures shall be properly fitted before attachment, and the welding sequence shall be such as to minimize stresses due to shrinkage of welds.
