
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.337-8 Openings, inlets, and outlets.
######## General.

(a)The requirements in this paragraph (a) apply to MC 331 cargo tanks except for those used to transport chlorine. The requirements for inlets and outlets on chlorine cargo tanks are in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) An opening must be provided on each cargo tank used for the transportation of liquefied materials to permit complete drainage.

(2) Except for gauging devices, thermometer wells, pressure relief valves, manhole openings, product inlet openings, and product discharge openings, each opening in a cargo tank must be closed with a plug, cap, or bolted flange.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each product inlet opening, including vapor return lines, must be fitted with a back flow check valve or an internal self-closing stop valve located inside the cargo tank or inside a welded nozzle that is an integral part of the cargo tank. The valve seat must be located inside the cargo tank or within 2.54 cm (one inch) of the external face of the welded flange. Damage to parts exterior to the cargo tank or mating flange must not prevent effective seating of the valve. All parts of a valve inside a cargo tank or welded flange must be made of material that will not corrode or deteriorate in the presence of the lading.

(4) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(5), (b), and (c) of this section, each liquid or vapor discharge outlet must be fitted with a primary discharge control system as defined in ยง 178.337-1(g). Thermal remote operators must activate at a temperature of 121.11 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F) or less. Linkages between closures and remote operators must be corrosion resistant and effective in all types of environmental conditions incident to discharging of product.

(i) On a cargo tank over 13,247.5 L (3,500 gallons) water capacity, thermal and mechanical means of remote closure must be installed at the ends of the cargo tank in at least two diagonally opposite locations. If the loading/unloading connection at the cargo tank is not in the general vicinity of one of the two locations specified in the first sentence of this paragraph (a)(4)(i), additional means of thermal remote closure must be installed so that heat from a fire in the loading/unloading connection area or the discharge pump will activate the primary discharge control system. The loading/unloading connection area is where hoses or hose reels are connected to the permanent metal piping.

(ii) On a cargo tank of 13,247.5 L (3,500 gallons) water capacity or less, a thermal means of remote closure must be installed at or near the internal self-closing stop valve. A mechanical means of remote closure must be installed on the end of the cargo tank furthest away from the loading/unloading connection area. The loading/unloading connection area is where hoses or hose reels are connected to the permanent metal piping. Linkages between closures and remote operators must be corrosion resistant and effective in all types of environmental conditions incident to discharge of product.

(iii) All parts of a valve inside a cargo tank or within a welded flange must be made of material that will not corrode or deteriorate in the presence of the lading.

(iv) An excess flow valve, integral excess flow valve, or excess flow feature must close if the flow reaches the rated flow of a gas or liquid specified by the original valve manufacturer when piping mounted directly on the valve is sheared off before the first valve, pump, or fitting downstream from the excess flow valve, integral excess flow valve, or excess flow feature.

(v) An integral excess flow valve or the excess flow feature of an internal self-closing stop valve may be designed with a bypass, not to exceed 0.1016 cm (0.040 inch) diameter opening, to allow equalization of pressure.

(vi) The internal self-closing stop valve must be designed so that the self-stored energy source and the valve seat are located inside the cargo tank or within 2.54 cm (one inch) of the external face of the welded flange. Damage to parts exterior to the cargo tank or mating flange must not prevent effective seating of the valve.

(5) A primary discharge control system is not required on the following:

(i) A vapor or liquid discharge opening of less than 1NPT equipped with an excess flow valve together with a manually operated external stop valve in place of an internal self-closing stop valve.

(ii) An engine fuel line on a truck-mounted cargo tank of not more thanNPT equipped with a valve having an integral excess flow valve or excess flow feature.

(iii) A cargo tank motor vehicle used to transport refrigerated liquids such as argon, carbon dioxide, helium, krypton, neon, nitrogen, and xenon, or mixtures thereof.

(6) In addition to the internal self-closing stop valve, each filling and discharge line must be fitted with a stop valve located in the line between the internal self-closing stop valve and the hose connection. A back flow check valve or excess flow valve may not be used to satisfy this requirement.

(7) An excess flow valve may be designed with a bypass, not to exceed a 0.1016 centimeter (0.040 inch) diameter opening, to allow equalization of pressure.
