
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.337-9 Pressure relief devices, piping, valves, hoses, and fittings.
######## Piping, valves, hose, and fittings.

(b)(1) The burst pressure of all piping, pipe fittings, hose and other pressure parts, except for pump seals and pressure relief devices, must be at least 4 times the design pressure of the cargo tank. Additionally, the burst pressure may not be less than 4 times any higher pressure to which each pipe, pipe fitting, hose or other pressure part may be subjected to in service. For chlorine service, see paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(2) Pipe joints must be threaded, welded, or flanged. If threaded pipe is used, the pipe and fittings must be Schedule 80 weight or heavier, except for sacrificial devices. Malleable metal, stainless steel, or ductile iron must be used in the construction of primary valve body parts and fittings used in liquid filling or vapor equalization. Stainless steel may be used for internal components such as shutoff discs and springs except where incompatible with the lading to be transported. Where copper tubing is permitted, joints must be brazed or be of equally strong metal union type. The melting point of the brazing material may not be lower than 538 &#xB0;C (1,000 &#xB0;F). The method of joining tubing may not reduce the strength of the tubing.

(3) Each hose coupling must be designed for a pressure of at least 120 percent of the hose design pressure and so that there will be no leakage when connected.

(4) Piping must be protected from damage due to thermal expansion and contraction, jarring, and vibration. Slip joints are not authorized for this purpose.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) Cargo tank manufacturers and fabricators must demonstrate that all piping, valves, and fittings on a cargo tank are free from leaks. To meet this requirement, the piping, valves, and fittings must be tested after installation at not less than 80 percent of the design pressure marked on the cargo tank.

(7) A hose assembler must:

(i) Permanently mark each hose assembly with a unique identification number.

(ii) Demonstrate that each hose assembly is free from leaks by performing the tests and inspections in ยง 180.416(f) of this subchapter.

(iii) Mark each hose assembly with the month and year of its original pressure test.
