
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.337-17 Marking.
######## General.

(a)Each cargo tank certified after October 1, 2004 must have a corrosion-resistant metal name plate (ASME Plate); and each cargo tank motor vehicle certified after October 1, 2004 must have a specification plate, permanently attached to the cargo tank by brazing, welding, or other suitable means on the left side near the front, in a place accessible for inspection. If the specification plate is attached directly to the cargo tank wall by welding, it must be welded to the tank before the cargo tank is postweld heat treated.

(1) The plates must be legibly marked by stamping, embossing, or other means of forming letters into the metal of the plate, with the information required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, in addition to that required by the ASME Code, in characters at leastinch high (parenthetical abbreviations may be used). All plates must be maintained in a legible condition.

(2) Each insulated cargo tank must have additional plates, as described, attached to the jacket in the location specified unless the specification plate is attached to the chassis and has the information required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(3) The information required for both the name and specification plate may be displayed on a single plate. If the information required by this section is displayed on a plate required by the ASME, the information need not be repeated on the name and specification plates.

(4) The specification plate may be attached to the cargo tank motor vehicle chassis rail by brazing, welding, or other suitable means on the left side near the front head, in a place accessible for inspection. If the specification plate is attached to the chassis rail, then the cargo tank serial number assigned by the cargo tank manufacturer must be included on the plate.
