
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.337-18 Certification.
######## Specification shortages.

(4)When a cargo tank motor vehicle is manufactured in two or more stages, the manufacturer of the cargo tank must attach the name plate and specification plate as required by ยง 178.337-17(a) and (b) without the original date of certification stamped on the specification plate. Prior manufacturers must list the specification requirements that are not completed on the Certificate of Compliance. When the cargo tank motor vehicle is brought into full compliance with the applicable specification, the cargo tank motor vehicle manufacturer must have a Registered Inspector stamp the date of certification on the specification plate and issue a Certificate of Compliance to the owner of the cargo tank motor vehicle. The Certificate of Compliance must list the actions taken to bring the cargo tank motor vehicle into full compliance. In addition, the certificate must include the date of certification and the person (manufacturer, carrier or repair organization) accomplishing compliance.

(5) The certificate must state whether or not it includes certification that all valves, piping, and protective devices conform to the requirements of the specification. If it does not so certify, the installer of any such valve, piping, or device shall supply and the owner shall obtain a certificate asserting complete compliance with these specifications for such devices. The certificate, or certificates, will include sufficient sketches, drawings, and other information to indicate the location, make, model, and size of each valve and the arrangement of all piping associated with the cargo tank.

(6) The certificate must contain a statement indicating whether or not the cargo tank was postweld heat treated for anhydrous ammonia as specified in ยง 178.337-1(f).

(b) The owner shall retain the copy of the data report and certificates and related papers in his files throughout his ownership of the cargo tank motor vehicle and for at least one year thereafter; and in the event of change in ownership, retention by the prior owner of nonfading photographically reproduced copies will be deemed to satisfy this requirement. Each motor carrier using the cargo tank motor vehicle, if not the owner thereof, shall obtain a copy of the data report and certificate and retain them in his files during the time he uses the cargo tank motor vehicle and for at least one year thereafter.
