
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.338-3 Structural integrity.
######## General requirements and acceptance criteria.

(a)(1) Except as permitted in paragraph (d) of this section, the maximum calculated design stress at any point in the tank may not exceed the lesser of the maximum allowable stress value prescribed in Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter), or 25 percent of the tensile strength of the material used.

(2) The relevant physical properties of the materials used in each tank may be established either by a certified test report from the material manufacturer or by testing in conformance with a recognized national standard. In either case, the ultimate tensile strength of the material used in the design may not exceed 120 percent of the minimum ultimate tensile strength specified in either the ASME Code or the ASTM standard to which the material is manufactured.

(3) The maximum design stress at any point in the tank must be calculated separately for the loading conditions described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. Alternate test or analytical methods, or a combination thereof, may be used in lieu of the procedures described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, if the methods are accurate and verifiable.

(4) Corrosion allowance material may not be included to satisfy any of the design calculation requirements of this section.
