
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.338-8 Pressure relief devices, piping, valves, and fittings.
######## Piping, valves, and fittings.

(b)(1) The burst pressure of all piping, pipe fittings, hoses and other pressure parts, except for pump seals and pressure relief devices, must be at least 4 times the design pressure of the tank. Additionally, the burst pressure may not be less than 4 times any higher pressure to which each pipe, pipe fitting, hose or other pressure part may be subjected to in service.

(2) Pipe joints must be threaded, welded or flanged. If threaded pipe is used, the pipe and fittings must be Schedule 80 weight or heavier. Malleable metals must be used in the construction of valves and fittings. Where copper tubing is permitted, joints shall be brazed or be of equally strong metal union type. The melting point of the brazing materials may not be lower than 1000 &#xB0;F. The method of joining tubing may not reduce the strength of the tubing, such as by the cutting of threads.

(3) Each hose coupling must be designed for a pressure of at least 120 percent of the hose design pressure and so that there will be no leakage when connected.

(4) Piping must be protected from damage due to thermal expansion and contraction, jarring, and vibration. Slip joints are not authorized for this purpose.

(5) All piping, valves and fittings on a cargo tank must be proved free from leaks. This requirement is met when such piping, valves, and fittings have been tested after installation with gas or air and proved leak tight at not less than the design pressure marked on the cargo tank. This requirement is applicable to all hoses used in a cargo tank, except that hose may be tested before or after installation on the tank.

(6) Each valve must be suitable for the tank design pressure at the tank design service temperature.

(7) All fittings must be rated for the maximum tank pressure and suitable for the coldest temperature to which they will be subjected in actual service.

(8) All piping, valves, and fittings must be grouped in the smallest practicable space and protected from damage as required by ยง 178.338-10.

(9) When a pressure-building coil is used on a tank designed to handle oxygen or flammable ladings, the vapor connection to that coil must be provided with a valve or check valve as close to the tank shell as practicable to prevent the loss of vapor from the tank in case of damage to the coil. The liquid connection to that coil must also be provided with a valve.
