
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.338-11 Discharge control devices.

(a) Excess-flow valves are not required.

(b) Each liquid filling and liquid discharge line must be provided with a shut-off valve located as close to the tank as practicable. Unless this valve is manually operable at the valve, the line must also have a manual shut-off valve.

(c) Except for a cargo tank that is used to transport argon, carbon dioxide, helium, krypton, neon, nitrogen, xenon, or mixtures thereof, each liquid filling and liquid discharge line must be provided with an on-vehicle remotely controlled self-closing shutoff valve.

(1) If pressure from a reservoir or from an engine-driven pump or compressor is used to open this valve, the control must be of fail-safe design and spring-biased to stop the admission of such pressure into the cargo tank. If the jacket is not evacuated, the seat of the valve must be inside the tank, in the opening nozzle or flange, or in a companion flange bolted to the nozzle. If the jacket is evacuated, the remotely controlled valve must be located as close to the tank as practicable.

(2) Each remotely controlled shut off valve must be provided with on-vehicle remote means of automatic closure, both mechanical and thermal. One means may be used to close more than one remotely controlled valve. Cable linkage between closures and remote operators must be corrosion resistant and effective in all types of environment and weather. The thermal means must consist of fusible elements actuated at a temperature not exceeding 121 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F), or equivalent devices. The loading/unloading connection area is where hoses are connected to the permanent metal piping. The number and location of remote operators and thermal devices shall be as follows:

(i) On a cargo tank motor vehicle over 3,500 gallons water capacity, remote means of automatic closure must be installed at the ends of the cargo tank in at least two diagonally opposite locations. If the loading/unloading connection at the cargo tank is not in the general vicinity of one of these locations, at least one additional thermal device must be installed so that heat from a fire in the loading/unloading connection area will activate the emergency control system.

(ii) On a cargo tank motor vehicle of 3,500 gallons water capacity or less, at least one remote means of automatic closure must be installed on the end of the cargo tank farthest away from the loading/unloading connection area. At least one thermal device must be installed so that heat from a fire in the loading/unloading connection area will activate the emergency control system.
