
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.338-13 Supporting and anchoring.

(a) On a cargo tank motor vehicle designed and constructed so that the cargo tank constitutes in whole or in part the structural member used in place of a motor vehicle frame, the cargo tank or the jacket must be supported by external cradles or by load rings. For a cargo tank mounted on a motor vehicle frame, the tank or jacket must be supported by external cradles, load rings, or longitudinal members. If cradles are used, they must subtend at least 120 degrees of the cargo tank circumference. The design calculations for the supports and load-bearing tank or jacket, and the support attachments must include beam stress, shear stress, torsion stress, bending moment, and acceleration stress for the loaded vehicle as a unit, using a safety factor of four, based on the tensile strength of the material, and static loading that uses the weight of the cargo tank and its attachments when filled to the design weight of the lading (see appendix G in Section VIII of the ASME Code) (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter), multiplied by the following factors. The effects of fatigue must also be considered in the calculations. Minimum static loadings must be as follows:

(1) For a vacuum-insulated cargo tank-

(i) Vertically downward of 2;

(ii) Vertically upward of 2;

(iii) Longitudinally of 2; and

(iv) Laterally of 2.

(2) For any other insulated cargo tank-

(i) Vertically downward of 3;

(ii) Vertically upward of 2;

(iii) Longitudinally of 2; and

(iv) Laterally of 2.

(b) When a loaded tank is supported within the vacuum jacket by structural members, the design calculations for the tank and its structural members must be based on a safety factor of four and the tensile strength of the material at ambient temperature. The enhanced tensile strength of the material at actual operating temperature may be substituted for the tensile strength at ambient temperature to the extent recognized in the ASME Code for static loadings. Static loadings must take into consideration the weight of the tank and the structural members when the tank is filled to the design weight of lading (see Appendix G of Section VIII, Division 1 of the ASME Code), multiplied by the following factors. Static loadings must take into consideration the weight of the tank and the structural members when the tank is filled to the design weight of lading (see appendix G in Section VIII of the ASME Code), multiplied by the following factors. When load rings in the jacket are used for supporting the tank, they must be designed to carry the fully loaded tank at the specified static loadings, plus external pressure. Minimum static loadings must be as follows:

(1) Vertically downward of 2;

(2) Vertically upward of 1;

(3) Longitudinally of 1; and, (4) Laterally of 1.
