
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.338-14 Gauging devices.
######## Liquid level gauging devices.

(a)(1) Unless a cargo tank is intended to be filled by weight, it must be equipped with one or more gauging devices, which accurately indicate the maximum permitted liquid level at the loading pressure, in order to provide a minimum of two percent outage below the inlet of the pressure control valve or pressure relief valve at the condition of incipient opening of that valve. A fixed-length dip tube, a fixed trycock line, or a differential pressure liquid level gauge must be used as the primary control for filling. Other gauging devices, except gauge glasses, may be used, but not as the primary control for filling.

(2) The design pressure of each liquid level gauging device must be at least that of the tank.

(3) If a fixed length dip tube or trycock line gauging device is used, it must consist of a pipe or tube of small diameter equipped with a valve at or near the jacket and extending into the cargo tank to a specified filling height. The fixed height at which the tube ends in the cargo tank must be such that the device will function when the liquid reaches the maximum level permitted in loading.

(4) The liquid level gauging device used as a primary control for filling must be designed and installed to accurately indicate the maximum filling level at the point midway of the tank both longitudinally and laterally.
