
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### § 178.338-18 Marking.
######## Specification plate.

(c)The following information must be marked on the specification plate in accordance with this section:

(1) Cargo tank motor vehicle manufacturer (CTMV mfr.).

(2) Cargo tank motor vehicle certification date (CTMV cert. date).

(3) Cargo tank manufacturer (CT mfr.).

(4) Cargo tank date of manufacture (CT date of mfr.), month and year.

(5) Maximum weight of lading (Max. Payload), in pounds.

(6) Maximum loading rate in gallons per minute (Max. Load rate, GPM).

(7) Maximum unloading rate in gallons per minute (Max Unload rate).

(8) Lining materials (Lining), if applicable.

(9) "Insulated for oxygen service" or "Not insulated for oxygen service" as appropriate.

(10) Marked rated holding time for at least one cryogenic liquid, in hours, and the name of that cryogenic liquid (MRHT ____ hrs, name of cryogenic liquid). Marked rated holding marking for additional cryogenic liquids may be displayed on or adjacent to the specification plate.

(11) Cargo tank serial number (CT serial), as assigned by cargo tank manufacturer, if applicable.

(d) The design weight of lading used in determining the loading in §§ 178.338-3 (b), 178.338-10 (b) and (c), and 178.338-13 (b), must be shown as the maximum weight of lading marking required by paragraph (c) of this section.
