
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.345-1 General requirements.
######## Welded flange

means a flange attached to the tank by a weld joining the tank shell to the cylindrical outer surface of the flange, or by a fillet weld joining the tank shell to a flange shaped to fit the shell contour.

(d) A manufacturer of a cargo tank must hold a current ASME certificate of authorization and must be registered with the Department in accordance with part 107, subpart F of this chapter.

(e) All construction must be certified by an Authorized Inspector or by a Registered Inspector as applicable to the cargo tank.

(f) Each cargo tank must be designed and constructed in conformance with the requirements of the applicable cargo tank specification. Each DOT 412 cargo tank with a "MAWP" greater than 15 psig, and each DOT 407 cargo tank with a maximum allowable working pressure greater than 35 psig must be "constructed and certified in conformance with Section VIII of the ASME Code" (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter) except as limited or modified by the applicable cargo tank specification. Other cargo tanks must be "constructed in accordance with Section VIII of the ASME Code," except as limited or modified by the applicable cargo tank specification.

(g) Requirements relating to parts and accessories on motor vehicles, which are contained in part 393 of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations of this title, are incorporated into these specifications.

(h) Any additional requirements prescribed in part 173 of this subchapter that pertain to the transportation of a specific lading are incorporated into these specifications.
