
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.345-3 Structural integrity.
######## ASME Code design and construction.

(b)The static design and construction of each cargo tank must be in accordance with Section VIII of the ASME Code. The cargo tank design must include calculation of stresses generated by the MAWP, the weight of the lading, the weight of structures supported by the cargo tank wall and the effect of temperature gradients resulting from lading and ambient temperature extremes. When dissimilar materials are used, their thermal coefficients must be used in the calculation of thermal stresses.

(1) Stress concentrations in tension, bending and torsion which occur at pads, cradles, or other supports must be considered in accordance with appendix G in Section VIII of the ASME Code.

(2) Longitudinal compressive buckling stress for ASME certified vessels must be calculated using paragraph UG-23(b) in Section VIII of the ASME Code. For cargo tanks not required to be certified in accordance with the ASME Code, compressive buckling stress may be calculated using alternative analysis methods which are accurate and verifiable. When alternative methods are used, calculations must include both the static loads described in this paragraph and the dynamic loads described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) Cargo tank designers and manufacturers must consider all of the conditions specified in ยง 173.33(c) of this subchapter when matching a cargo tank's performance characteristic to the characteristic of each lading transported.
