
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 23.3 What do the terms used in this part mean?
###### Concession

means one or more of the types of for-profit businesses listed in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition:

(1) A business, located on an airport subject to this part, that is engaged in the sale of consumer goods or services to the public under an agreement with the recipient, another concessionaire, or the owner or lessee of a terminal, if other than the recipient.

(2) A business conducting one or more of the following covered activities, even if it does not maintain an office, store, or other business location on an airport subject to this part, as long as the activities take place on the airport: Management contracts and subcontracts, a web-based or other electronic business in a terminal or which passengers can access at the terminal, an advertising business that provides advertising displays or messages to the public on the airport, or a business that provides goods and services to concessionaires.

(3) For purposes of this subpart, a business is not considered to be "located on the airport" solely because it picks up and/or delivers customers under a permit, license, or other agreement. For example, providers of taxi, limousine, car rental, or hotel services are not considered to be located on the airport just because they send shuttles onto airport grounds to pick up passengers or drop them off. A business is considered to be "located on the airport," however, if it has an on-airport facility. Such facilities include in the case of a taxi operator, a dispatcher; in the case of a limousine, a booth selling tickets to the public; in the case of a car rental company, a counter at which its services are sold to the public or a ready return facility; and in the case of a hotel operator, a hotel located anywhere on airport property.

(4) Any business meeting the definition of concession is covered by this subpart, regardless of the name given to the agreement with the recipient, concessionaire, or airport terminal owner or lessee. A concession may be operated under various types of agreements, including but not limited to the following:

(i) Leases.

(ii) Subleases.

(iii) Permits.

(iv) Contracts or subcontracts.

(v) Other instruments or arrangements.
