
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### § 178.345-7 Circumferential reinforcements.

(a) A cargo tank with a shell thickness of less thaninch must be circumferentially reinforced with bulkheads, baffles, ring stiffeners, or any combination thereof, in addition to the cargo tank heads.

(1) Circumferential reinforcement must be located so that the thickness and tensile strength of the shell material in combination with the frame and reinforcement produces structural integrity at least equal to that prescribed in § 178.345-3 and in such a manner that the maximum unreinforced portion of the shell does not exceed 60 inches. For cargo tanks designed to be loaded by vacuum, spacing of circumferential reinforcement may exceed 60 inches provided the maximum unreinforced portion of the shell conforms with the requirements in Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(2) Where circumferential joints are made between conical shell sections, or between conical and cylindrical shell sections, and the angle between adjacent sections is less than 160 degrees, circumferential reinforcement must be located within one inch of the shell joint, unless otherwise reinforced with structural members capable of maintaining shell stress levels authorized in § 178.345-3. When the joint is formed by the large ends of adjacent conical shell sections, or by the large end of a conical shell and a cylindrical shell section, this angle is measured inside the shell; when the joint is formed by the small end of a conical shell section and a cylindrical shell section, it is measured outside the shell.

(b) Except for doubler plates and knuckle pads, no reinforcement may cover any circumferential joint.

(c) When a baffle or baffle attachment ring is used as a circumferential reinforcement member, it must produce structural integrity at least equal to that prescribed in § 178.345-3 and must be circumferentially welded to the cargo tank shell. The welded portion may not be less than 50 percent of the total circumference of the cargo tank and the length of any unwelded space on the joint may not exceed 40 times the shell thickness unless reinforced external to the cargo tank.

(d) When a ring stiffener is used as a circumferential reinforcement member, whether internal or external, reinforcement must be continuous around the circumference of the cargo tank shell and must be in accordance with the following:

(1) The section modulus about the neutral axis of the ring section parallel to the shell must be at least equal to that derived from the applicable formula:

(2) If a ring stiffener is welded to the cargo tank shell, a portion of the shell may be considered as part of the ring section for purposes of computing the ring section modulus. This portion of the shell may be used provided at least 50 percent of the total circumference of the cargo tank is welded and the length of any unwelded space on the joint does not exceed 40 times the shell thickness. The maximum portion of the shell to be used in these calculations is as follows:

(3) When used to meet the vacuum requirements of this section, ring stiffeners must be as prescribed in Section VIII of the ASME Code.

(4) If configuration of internal or external ring stiffener encloses an air space, this air space must be arranged for venting and be equipped with drainage facilities which must be kept operative at all times.

(5) Hat shaped or open channel ring stiffeners which prevent visual inspection of the cargo tank shell are prohibited on cargo tank motor vehicles constructed of carbon steel.
