
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.345-10 Pressure relief.
######## Type and construction of relief systems and devices.

(b)(1) Each cargo tank must be provided with a primary pressure relief system consisting of one or more reclosing pressure relief valves. A secondary pressure relief system consisting of another pressure relief valve in parallel with the primary pressure relief system may be used to augment the total venting capacity of the cargo tank. Non-reclosing pressure relief devices are not authorized in any cargo tank except when in series with a reclosing pressure relief device. Gravity actuated reclosing valves are not authorized on any cargo tank.

(2) When provided by ยง 173.33(c)(1)(iii) of this subchapter, cargo tanks may be equipped with a normal vent. Such vents must be set to open at not less than 1 psig and must be designed to prevent loss of lading through the device in case of vehicle overturn.

(3) Each pressure relief system must be designed to withstand dynamic pressure surges in excess of the design set pressure as specified in paragraphs (b)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section. Set pressure is a function of MAWP as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(i) Each pressure relief device must be able to withstand dynamic pressure surge reaching 30 psig above the design set pressure and sustained above the set pressure for at least 60 milliseconds with a total volume of liquid released not exceeding one gallon before the relief device recloses to a leak-tight condition. This requirement must be met regardless of vehicle orientation. This capability must be demonstrated by testing. An acceptable method is outlined in TTMA RP No. 81-97 "Performance of Spring Loaded Pressure Relief Valves on MC 306, MC 307, MC 312, DOT 406, DOT 407, and DOT 412 Tanks" (incorporated by reference; see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) After August 31, 1995, each pressure relief device must be able to withstand a dynamic pressure surge reaching 30 psig above the design set pressure and sustained above the design set pressure for at least 60 milliseconds with a total volume of liquid released not exceeding 1 L before the relief valve recloses to a leak-tight condition. This requirement must be met regardless of vehicle orientation. This capability must be demonstrated by testing. TTMA RP No. 81, cited in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, is an acceptable test procedure.

(4) Each reclosing pressure relief valve must be constructed and installed in such a manner as to prevent unauthorized adjustment of the relief valve setting.

(5) No shut-off valve or other device that could prevent venting through the pressure relief system may be installed in a pressure relief system.

(6) The pressure relief system must be mounted, shielded and drainable so as to minimize the accumulation of material that could impair the operation or discharge capability of the system by freezing, corrosion or blockage.
