
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.345-11 Tank outlets.
######## General.

(a)As used in this section, "loading/unloading outlet" means any opening in the cargo tank wall used for loading or unloading of lading, as distinguished from outlets such as manhole covers, vents, vapor recovery devices, and similar closures. Cargo tank outlets, closures and associated piping must be protected in accordance with ยง 178.345-8.

(b) Each cargo tank loading/unloading outlet must be equipped with an internal self-closing stop-valve, or alternatively, with an external stop-valve located as close as practicable to the cargo tank wall. Each cargo tank loading/unloading outlet must be in accordance with the following provisions:

(1) Each loading/unloading outlet must be fitted with a self-closing system capable of closing all such outlets in an emergency within 30 seconds of actuation. During normal operations the outlets may be closed manually. The self-closing system must be designed according to the following:

(i) Each self-closing system must include a remotely actuated means of closure located more than 10 feet from the loading/unloading outlet where vehicle length allows, or on the end of the cargo tank farthest away from the loading/unloading outlet. The actuating mechanism must be corrosion-resistant and effective in all types of environment and weather.

(ii) If the actuating system is accidentally damaged or sheared off during transportation, each loading/unloading outlet must remain securely closed and capable of retaining lading.

(iii) When required by part 173 of this subchapter for materials which are flammable, pyrophoric, oxidizing, or Division 6.1 (poisonous liquid) materials, the remote means of closure must be capable of thermal activation. The means by which the self-closing system is thermally activated must be located as close as practicable to the primary loading/unloading connection and must actuate the system at a temperature not over 250 &#xB0;F. In addition, outlets on these cargo tanks must be capable of being remotely closed manually or mechanically.

(2) Bottom loading outlets which discharge lading into the cargo tank through fixed internal piping above the maximum liquid level of the cargo tank need not be equipped with a self-closing system.

(c) Any loading/unloading outlet extending beyond an internal self-closing stop-valve, or beyond the innermost external stop-valve which is part of a self-closing system, must be fitted with another stop-valve or other leak-tight closure at the end of such connection.

(d) Each cargo tank outlet that is not a loading/unloading outlet must be equipped with a stop-valve or other leak-tight closure located as close as practicable to the cargo tank outlet. Any connection extending beyond this closure must be fitted with another stop-valve or other leak-tight closure at the end of such connection.
