
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### § 178.345-14 Marking.
######## General.

(a)The manufacturer shall certify that each cargo tank motor vehicle has been designed, constructed and tested in accordance with the applicable Specification DOT 406, DOT 407 or DOT 412 (§§ 178.345, 178.346, 178.347, 178.348) cargo tank requirements and, when applicable, with Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). The certification shall be accomplished by marking the cargo tank as prescribed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and by preparing the certificate prescribed in § 178.345-15. Metal plates prescribed by paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section, must be permanently attached to the cargo tank or its integral supporting structure, by brazing, welding or other suitable means. These plates must be affixed on the left side of the vehicle near the front of the cargo tank (or the frontmost cargo tank of a multi-cargo tank motor vehicle), in a place readily accessible for inspection. The plates must be permanently and plainly marked in English by stamping, embossing or other means in characters at leastinch high. The information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may be combined on one specification plate.
