
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### ยง 178.345-14 Marking.
######## Nameplate.

(b)Each cargo tank must have a corrosion resistant nameplate permanently attached to it. The following information, in addition to any applicable information required by the ASME Code, must be marked on the tank nameplate (parenthetical abbreviations may be used):

(1) DOT-specification number DOT XXX (DOT XXX) where "XXX" is replaced with the applicable specification number. For cargo tanks having a variable specification plate, the DOT-specification number is replaced with the words "See variable specification plate."

(2) Original test date, month and year (Orig. Test Date).

(3) Tank MAWP in psig.

(4) Cargo tank test pressure (Test P), in psig.

(5) Cargo tank design temperature range (Design temp. range),__ &#xB0;F to __ &#xB0;F.

(6) Nominal capacity (Water cap.), in gallons.

(7) Maximum design density of lading (Max. lading density), in pounds per gallon.

(8) Material specification number-shell (Shell matl, yyy***), where "yyy" is replaced by the alloy designation and "***" by the alloy type.

(9) Material specification number-heads (Head matl, yyy***), where "yyy" is replaced by the alloy designation and "***" by the alloy type.

(10) Weld material (Weld matl.).

(11) Minimum thickness-shell (Min. shell-thick), in inches. When minimum shell thicknesses are not the same for different areas, show (top __, side __, bottom __, in inches).

(12) Minimum thickness-heads (Min. heads thick.), in inches.

(13) Manufactured thickness-shell (Mfd. shell thick.), top __, side __, bottom __, in inches. (Required when additional thickness is provided for corrosion allowance.)

(14) Manufactured thickness-heads (Mfd. heads thick.), in inches. (Required when additional thickness is provided for corrosion allowance.)

(15) Exposed surface area, in square feet.
