
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### § 178.346-1 General requirements.
######## MAWP:

(b)The MAWP of each cargo tank must be no lower than 2.65 psig and no higher than 4 psig.

(c) Vacuum loaded cargo tanks must not be constructed to this specification.

(d) Each cargo tank must be "constructed in accordance with Section VIII of the ASME Code" (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) except as modified herein:

(1) The record-keeping requirements contained in the ASME Code Section VIII do not apply. Parts UG-90 through 94 in Section VIII do not apply. Inspection and certification must be made by an inspector registered in accordance with subpart F of part 107.

(2) Loadings must be as prescribed in § 178.345-3.

(3) The knuckle radius of flanged heads must be at least three times the material thickness, and in no case less than 0.5 inch. Stuffed (inserted) heads may be attached to the shell by a fillet weld. The knuckle radius and dish radius versus diameter limitations of UG-32 do not apply. Shell sections of cargo tanks designed with a non-circular cross section need not be given a preliminary curvature, as prescribed in UG-79(b).

(4) Marking, certification, data reports, and nameplates must be as prescribed in §§ 178.345-14 and 178.345-15.

(5) Manhole closure assemblies must conform to §§ 178.345-5 and 178.346-5.

(6) Pressure relief devices must be as prescribed in § 178.346-3.

(7) The hydrostatic or pneumatic test must be as prescribed in § 178.346-5.

(8) The following paragraphs in parts UG and UW in Section VIII of the ASME Code do not apply: UG-11, UG-12, UG-22(g), UG-32(e), UG-34, UG-35, UG-44, UG-76, UG-77, UG-80, UG-81, UG-96, UG-97, UW-13(b)(2), UW-13.1(f) and the dimensional requirements found in Figure UW-13.1.

(9) Single full fillet lap joints without plug welds may be used for arc or gas welded longitudinal seams without radiographic examination under the following conditions:

(i) For a truck-mounted cargo tank, no more than two such joints may be used on the top half of the tank and no more than two joints may be used on the bottom half. They may not be located farther from the top and bottom centerline than 16 percent of the shell's circumference.

(ii) For a self-supporting cargo tank, no more than two such joints may be used on the top of the tank. They may not be located farther from the top centerline than 12.5 percent of the shell's circumference.
