
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### § 178.346-3 Pressure relief.
######## Type and construction.

(b)In addition to the pressure relief devices required in § 178.345-10:

(1) Each cargo tank must be equipped with one or more vacuum relief devices;

(2) When intended for use only for lading meeting the requirements of § 173.33(c)(1)(iii) of this subchapter, the cargo tank may be equipped with a normal vent. Such vents must be set to open at not less than 1 psig and must be designed to prevent loss of lading through the device in case of vehicle upset; and

(3) Notwithstanding the requirements in § 178.345-10(b), after August 31, 1996, each pressure relief valve must be able to withstand a dynamic pressure surge reaching 30 psig above the design set pressure and sustained above the set pressure for at least 60 milliseconds with a total volume of liquid released not exceeding 1 L before the relief valve recloses to a leak-tight condition. This requirement must be met regardless of vehicle orientation. This capability must be demonstrated by testing. TTMA RP No. 81 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), cited at § 178.345-10(b)(3)(i), is an acceptable test procedure.
