
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart J - Specifications for Containers for Motor Vehicle Transportation
####### § 178.347-1 General requirements.

(a) Each specification DOT 407 cargo tank motor vehicle must conform to the general design and construction requirements in § 178.345 in addition to the specific requirements contained in this section.

(b) Each tank must be of a circular cross-section and have an MAWP of at least 25 psig.

(c) Any cargo tank motor vehicle built to this specification with a MAWP greater than 35 psig or any cargo tank motor vehicle built to this specification designed to be loaded by vacuum must be constructed and certified in accordance with Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). The external design pressure for a cargo tank loaded by vacuum must be at least 15 psi.

(d) Any cargo tank motor vehicle built to this specification with a MAWP of 35 psig or less or any cargo tank motor vehicle built to this specification designed to withstand full vacuum but not equipped to be loaded by vacuum must be constructed in accordance with Section VIII of the ASME Code.

(1) The record-keeping requirements contained in Section VIII of the ASME Code do not apply. The inspection requirements of parts UG-90 through 94 do not apply. Inspection and certification must be made by an inspector registered in accordance with subpart F of part 107.

(2) Loadings must be as prescribed in § 178.345-3.

(3) The knuckle radius of flanged heads must be at least three times the material thickness, and in no case less than 0.5 inch. Stuffed (inserted) heads may be attached to the shell by a fillet weld. The knuckle radius and dish radius versus diameter limitations of UG-32 do not apply for cargo tank motor vehicles with a MAWP of 35 psig or less.

(4) Marking, certification, data reports and nameplates must be as prescribed in §§ 178.345-14 and 178.345-15.

(5) Manhole closure assemblies must conform to § 178.347-3.

(6) Pressure relief devices must be as prescribed in § 178.347-4.

(7) The hydrostatic or pneumatic test must be as prescribed in § 178.347-5.

(8) The following paragraphs in parts UG and UW in Section VIII the ASME Code do not apply: UG-11, UG-12, UG-22(g), UG-32(e), UG-34, UG-35, UG-44, UG-76, UG-77, UG-80, UG-81, UG-96, UG-97, UW-12, UW-13(b)(2), UW-13.1(f), and the dimensional requirements found in Figure UW-13.1.

(9) UW-12 in Section VIII of the ASME Code does not apply to a weld seam in a bulkhead that has not been radiographically examined, under the following conditions:

(i) The strength of the weld seam is assumed to be 0.85 of the strength of the bulkhead.

(ii) The welded seam must be a full penetration butt weld.

(iii) No more than one seam may be used per bulkhead.

(iv) The welded seam must be completed before forming the dish radius and knuckle radius.

(v) Compliance test: Two test specimens of materials representative of those to be used in the manufacture of a cargo tank bulkhead must be tested to failure in tension. The test specimen must be of the same thickness and joined by the same welding procedure. The test specimens may represent all the tanks that are made in the same facility within 6 months after the tests are completed. Before welding, the fit-up of the joints on the test specimens must represent production conditions that would result in the least joint strength. Evidence of joint fit-up and test results must be retained at the manufacturer's facility for at least 5 years.

(vi) Acceptance criteria: The ratio of the actual tensile stress at failure to the actual tensile strength of the adjacent material of all samples of a test lot must be greater than 0.85.
