
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart L - Non-bulk Performance-Oriented Packaging Standards
####### § 178.503 Marking of packagings.
######## The following are examples of symbols and required

(e)markings.

(1)(i) The United Nations symbol is:

(ii) The circle that surrounds the letters "u" and "n" may have small breaks provided the following provisions are met:

(A) The total gap space does not exceed 15 percent of the circumference of the circle;

(B) There are no more than four gaps in the circle;

C) The spacing between gaps is separated by no less than 20 percent of the circumference of the circle (72 degrees); and

D) The letters "u" and "n" appear exactly as depicted in § 178.503(e)(1)(i) with no gaps.

(2) Examples of markings for a new packaging are as follows:

(i) For a fiberboard box designed to contain an inner packaging:

(ii) For a steel drum designed to contain liquids:

(iii) For a steel drum to transport solids or inner packagings:

(3) Examples of markings for reconditioned packagings are as follows:

(f) A manufacturer must mark every UN specification package represented as manufactured to meet the requirements of § 178.609 for packaging of infectious substances with the marks specified in this section. The markings must be durable, legible, and must be readily visible, as specified in § 178.3(a). An infectious substance packaging that successfully passes the tests conforming to the UN standard must be marked as follows:

(1) The United Nations symbol as illustrated in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) The code designating the type of packaging and material of construction according to the identification codes for packagings specified in § 178.502.

(3) The text "CLASS 6.2".

(4) The last two digits of the year of manufacture of the packaging.

(5) The country authorizing the allocation of the mark. The letters "USA" indicate the packaging is manufactured and marked in the United States in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.

(6) The name and address or symbol of the manufacturer or the approval agency certifying compliance with subparts L and M of this part. Symbols, if used, must be registered with the Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety.

(7) For packagings meeting the requirements of § 178.609(i)(3), the letter "U" must be inserted immediately following the marking designating the type of packaging and material required in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
