
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart L - Non-bulk Performance-Oriented Packaging Standards
####### § 178.504 Standards for steel drums.

(a) The following are identification codes for steel drums:

(1) 1A1 for a non-removable head steel drum; and

(2) 1A2 for a removable head steel drum.

(b) Construction requirements for steel drums are as follows:

(1) Body and heads must be constructed of steel sheet of suitable type and adequate thickness in relation to the capacity and intended use of the drum. Minimum thickness and marking requirements in §§ 173.28(b)(4) and 178.503(a)(9) of this subchapter apply to drums intended for reuse.

(2) Body seams must be welded on drums designed to contain more than 40 L (11 gallons) of liquids. Body seams must be mechanically seamed or welded on drums intended to contain only solids or 40 L (11 gallons) or less of liquids.

(3) Chimes must be mechanically seamed or welded. Separate reinforcing rings may be applied.

(4) The body of a drum of a capacity greater than 60 L (16 gallons) may have at least two expanded rolling hoops or two separate rolling hoops. If there are separate rolling hoops, they must be fitted tightly on the body and so secured that they cannot shift. Rolling hoops may not be spot-welded.

(5) Openings for filling, emptying and venting in the bodies or heads of non-removable head (1A1) drums may not exceed 7.0 cm (3 inches) in diameter. Drums with larger openings are considered to be of the removable head type (1A2). Closures for openings in the bodies and heads of drums must be so designed and applied that they will remain secure and leakproof under normal conditions of transport. Closure flanges may be mechanically seamed or welded in place. Gaskets or other sealing elements must be used with closures unless the closure is inherently leakproof.

(6) Closure devices for removable head drums must be so designed and applied that they will remain secure and drums will remain leakproof under normal conditions of transport. Gaskets or other sealing elements must be used with all removable heads.

(7) If materials used for body, heads, closures, and fittings are not in themselves compatible with the contents to be transported, suitable internal protective coatings or treatments must be applied. These coatings or treatments must retain their protective properties under normal conditions of transport.

(8) Maximum capacity of drum: 450 L (119 gallons).

(9) Maximum net mass: 400 kg (882 pounds).
