
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart L - Non-bulk Performance-Oriented Packaging Standards
####### § 178.511 Standards for aluminum and steel jerricans.

(a) The following are identification codes for aluminum and steel jerricans:

(1) 3A1 for a non-removable head steel jerrican;

(2) 3A2 for a removable head steel jerrican;

(3) 3B1 for a non-removable head aluminum jerrican; and

(4) 3B2 for a removable head aluminum jerrican.

(b) Construction requirements for aluminum and steel jerricans are as follows:

(1) For steel jerricans the body and heads must be constructed of steel sheet of suitable type and adequate thickness in relation to the capacity of the jerrican and its intended use. Minimum thickness and marking requirements in §§ 173.28(b)(4) and 178.503(a)(9) of this subchapter apply to jerricans intended for reuse.

(2) For aluminum jerricans the body and heads must be constructed of aluminum at least 99% pure or of an aluminum base alloy. Material must be of a type and of adequate thickness in relation to the capacity of the jerrican and to its intended use.

(3) Chimes of all jerricans must be mechanically seamed or welded. Body seams of jerricans intended to carry more than 40 L (11 gallons) of liquid must be welded. Body seams of jerricans intended to carry 40 L (11 gallons) or less must be mechanically seamed or welded.

(4) Openings in jerricans (3A1) may not exceed 7.0 cm (3 inches) in diameter. Jerricans with larger openings are considered to be of the removable head type. Closures must be so designed that they remain secure and leakproof under normal conditions of transport. Gaskets or other sealing elements must be used with closures, unless the closure is inherently leakproof.

(5) If materials used for body, heads, closures and fittings are not in themselves compatible with the contents to be transported, suitable internal protective coatings or treatments must be applied. These coatings or treatments must retain their protective properties under normal conditions of transport.

(6) Maximum capacity of jerrican: 60 L (16 gallons).

(7) Maximum net mass: 120 kg (265 pounds).
