
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart L - Non-bulk Performance-Oriented Packaging Standards
####### § 178.522 Standards for composite packagings with inner plastic receptacles.

(a) The following are the identification codes for composite packagings with inner plastic receptacles:

(1) 6HA1 for a plastic receptacle within a protective steel drum;

(2) 6HA2 for a plastic receptacle within a protective steel crate or box;

(3) 6HB1 for a plastic receptacle within a protective aluminum drum.

(4) 6HB2 for a plastic receptacle within a protective aluminum crate or box.

(5) 6HC for a plastic receptacle within a protective wooden box.

(6) 6HD1 for a plastic receptacle within a protective plywood drum;

(7) 6HD2 for a plastic receptacle within a protective plywood box;

(8) 6HG1 for a plastic receptacle within a protective fiber drum;

(9) 6HG2 for a plastic receptacle within a protective fiberboard box;

(10) 6HH1 for a plastic receptacle within a protective plastic drum; and

(11) 6HH2 for a plastic receptacle within a protective plastic box.

(b) Construction requirements for composite packagings with inner receptacles of plastic are as follows:

(1) Inner receptacles must be constructed under the applicable construction requirements prescribed in § 178.509(b) (1) through (7) of this subpart.

(2) The inner plastic receptacle must fit snugly inside the outer packaging, which must be free of any projections which may abrade the plastic material.

(3) Outer packagings must be constructed as follows:

(i) 6HA1 or 6HB1: Protective packaging must conform to the requirements for steel drums in § 178.504(b) of this subpart, or aluminum drums in § 178.505(b) of this subpart.

(ii) 6HA2 or 6HB2: Protective packagings with steel or aluminum crate must conform to the requirements for steel or aluminum boxes found in § 178.512(b) of this subpart.

(iii) 6HC protective packaging must conform to the requirements for wooden boxes in § 178.513(b) of this subpart.

(iv) 6HD1: Protective packaging must conform to the requirements for plywood drums, in § 178.507(b) of this subpart.

(v) 6HD2: Protective packaging must conform to the requirements of plywood boxes, in § 178.514(b) of this subpart.

(vi) 6HG1: Protective packaging must conform to the requirements for fiber drums, in § 178.508(b) of this subpart.

(vii) 6HG2: protective packaging must conform to the requirements for fiberboard boxes, in § 178.516(b) of this subpart.

(viii) 6HH1: Protective packaging must conform to the requirements for plastic drums, in § 178.509(b).

(ix) 6HH2: Protective packaging must conform to the requirements for plastic boxes, in § 178.517(b).

(4) Maximum capacity of inner receptacles is as follows: 6HA1, 6HB1, 6HD1, 6HG1, 6HH1-250 L (66 gallons); 6HA2, 6HB2, 6HC, 6HD2, 6HG2, 6HH2-60 L (16 gallons).

(5) Maximum net mass is as follows: 6HA1, 6HB1, 6HD1, 6HG1, 6HH1-400kg (882 pounds); 6HB2, 6HC, 6HD2, 6HG2, 6HH2-75 kg (165 pounds).
