
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart L - Non-bulk Performance-Oriented Packaging Standards
####### § 178.523 Standards for composite packagings with inner glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles.

(a) The following are identification codes for composite packagings with inner receptacles of glass, porcelain, or stoneware:

(1) 6PA1 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective steel drum;

(2) 6PA2 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective steel crate or box;

(3) 6PB1 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective aluminum drum;

(4) 6PB2 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective aluminum crate or box;

(5) 6PC for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective wooden box;

(6) 6PD1 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective plywood drum;

(7) 6PD2 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective wickerwork hamper;

(8) 6PG1 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective fiber drum;

(9) 6PG2 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective fiberboard box;

(10) 6PH1 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective expanded plastic packaging; and

(11) 6PH2 for glass, porcelain, or stoneware receptacles within a protective solid plastic packaging.

(b) Construction requirements for composite packagings with inner receptacles of glass, porcelain, or stoneware are as follows:

(1) Inner receptacles must conform to the following requirements:

(i) Receptacles must be of suitable form (cylindrical or pear-shaped), be made of good quality materials free from any defect that could impair their strength, and be firmly secured in the outer packaging.

(ii) Any part of a closure likely to come into contact with the contents of the receptacle must be resistant to those contents. Closures must be fitted so as to be leakproof and secured to prevent any loosening during transportation. Vented closures must conform to § 173.24(f) of this subchapter.

(2) Protective packagings must conform to the following requirements:

(i) For receptacles with protective steel drum 6PAl, the drum must comply with § 178.504(b) of this subpart. However, the removable lid required for this type of packaging may be in the form of a cap.

(ii) For receptacles with protective packaging of steel crate or steel box 6PA2, the protective packaging must conform to the following:

(A) Section 178.512(b) of this subpart.

(B) In the case of cylindrical receptacles, the protective packaging must, when upright, rise above the receptacle and its closure; and

(C) If the protective crate surrounds a pear-shaped receptacle and is of matching shape, the protective packaging must be fitted with a protective cover (cap).

(iii) For receptacles with protective aluminum drum 6PB1, the requirements of § 178.505(b) of this subpart apply to the protective packaging.

(iv) For receptacles with protective aluminum box or crate 6PB2, the requirements of § 178.512(b) of this subpart apply to the protective packaging.

(v) For receptacles with protective wooden box 6PC, the requirements of § 178.513(b) of this subpart apply to the protective packaging.

(vi) For receptacles with protective plywood drum 6PD1, the requirements of § 178.507(b) of this subpart apply to the protective packaging.

(vii) For receptacles with protective wickerwork hamper 6PD2, the wickerwork hamper must be properly made with material of good quality. The hamper must be fitted with a protective cover (cap) so as to prevent damage to the receptacle.

(viii) For receptacles with protective fiber drum 6PG1, the drum must conform to the requirements of § 178.508(b) of this subpart.

(ix) For receptacles with protective fiberboard box 6PG2, the requirements of § 178.516(b) of this subpart apply to the protective packaging.

(x) For receptacles with protective solid plastic or expanded plastic packaging 6PH1 or 6PH2, the requirements of § 178.517(b) of this subpart apply to the protective packaging. Solid protective plastic packaging must be manufactured from high-density polyethylene from some other comparable plastic material. The removable lid required for this type of packaging may be a cap.

(3) Quantity limitations are as follows:

(i) Maximum net capacity for packaging for liquids: 60 L (16 gallons).

(ii) Maximum net mass for packagings for solids: 75 kg (165 pounds).
