
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart M - Testing of Non-bulk Packagings and Packages
####### ยง 178.603 Drop test.
######## Drop height.

(e)Drop heights, measured as the vertical distance from the target to the lowest point on the package, must be equal to or greater than the drop height determined as follows:

(1) For solids and liquids, if the test is performed with the solid or liquid to be transported or with a non-hazardous material having essentially the same physical characteristic, the drop height must be determined according to packing group, as follows:

(i) Packing Group I: 1.8 m (5.9 feet).

(ii) Packing Group II: 1.2 m (3.9 feet).

(iii) Packing Group III: 0.8 m (2.6 feet).

(2) For liquids in single packagings and for inner packagings of combination packagings, if the test is performed with water:

(i) Where the materials to be carried have a specific gravity not exceeding 1.2, drop height must be determined according to packing group, as follows:

(A) Packing Group I: 1.8 m (5.9 feet).

(B) Packing Group II: 1.2 m (3.9 feet).

(C) Packing Group III: 0.8 m (2.6 feet).

(ii) Where the materials to be transported have a specific gravity exceeding 1.2, the drop height must be calculated on the basis of the specific gravity (SG) of the material to be carried, rounded up to the first decimal, as follows:

(A) Packing Group I: SG x 1.5 m (4.9 feet).

(B) Packing Group II: SG x 1.0 m (3.3 feet).

(C) Packing Group III: SG x 0.67 m (2.2 feet).
