
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart M - Testing of Non-bulk Packagings and Packages
####### ยง 178.606 Stacking test.
######## Test method,Design qualification testing.

(c)-(1)The test sample must be subjected to a force applied to the top surface of the test sample equivalent to the total weight of identical packages which might be stacked on it during transport; where the contents of the test sample are non-hazardous liquids with specific gravities different from that of the liquid to be transported, the force must be calculated based on the specific gravity that will be marked on the packaging. The minimum height of the stack, including the test sample, must be 3.0 m (10 feet). The duration of the test must be 24 hours, except that plastic drums, jerricans, and composite packagings 6HH intended for liquids shall be subjected to the stacking test for a period of 28 days at a temperature of not less than 40 &#xB0;C (104 &#xB0;F). Alternative test methods which yield equivalent results may be used if approved by the Associate Administrator. In guided load tests, stacking stability must be assessed after completion of the test by placing two filled packagings of the same type on the test sample. The stacked packages must maintain their position for one hour. Plastic packagings must be cooled to ambient temperature before this stacking stability assessment.
