
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart M - Testing of Non-bulk Packagings and Packages
####### ยง 178.608 Vibration standard.

(a) Each packaging must be capable of withstanding, without rupture or leakage, the vibration test procedure outlined in this section.

(b) Test method. (1) Three sample packagings, selected at random, must be filled and closed as for shipment.

(2) The three samples must be placed on a vibrating platform that has a vertical or rotary double-amplitude (peak-to-peak displacement) of one inch. The packages should be constrained horizontally to prevent them from falling off the platform, but must be left free to move vertically, bounce and rotate.

(3) The test must be performed for one hour at a frequency that causes the package to be raised from the vibrating platform to such a degree that a piece of material of approximately 1.6 mm (0.063 inch) thickness (such as steel strapping or paperboard) can be passed between the bottom of any package and the platform.

(4) Immediately following the period of vibration, each package must be removed from the platform, turned on its side and observed for any evidence of leakage.

(5) Other methods, at least equally effective, may be used, if approved by the Associate Administrator.
