
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart N - IBC Performance-Oriented Standards
####### § 178.703 Marking of IBCs.

(a) The manufacturer shall:

(1) Mark every IBC in a durable and clearly visible manner. The marking may be applied in a single line or in multiple lines provided the correct sequence is followed with the information required by this section in letters, numerals and symbols of at least 12 mm in height. This minimum marking size applies only to IBCs manufactured after October 1, 2001). The following information is required in the sequence presented:

(i) Except as provided in § 178.503(e)(1)(ii), the United Nations symbol as illustrated in § 178.503(e)(1)(i). For metal IBCs on which the marking is stamped or embossed, the capital letters "UN" may be applied instead of the symbol.

(ii) The code number designating IBC design type according to § 178.702(a). The letter "W" must follow the IBC design type identification code on an IBC when the IBC differs from the requirements in subpart N of this part, or is tested using methods other than those specified in this subpart, and is approved by the Associate Administrator in accordance with the provisions in § 178.801(i).

(iii) A capital letter identifying the performance standard under which the design type has been successfully tested, as follows:

(A) X-for IBCs meeting Packing Group I, II and III tests;

(B) Y-for IBCs meeting Packing Group II and III tests; and

(C) Z-for IBCs meeting only Packing Group III tests.

(iv) The month (designated numerically) and year (last two digits) of manufacture.

(v) The country authorizing the allocation of the mark. The letters 'USA' indicate that the IBC is manufactured and marked in the United States in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.

(vi) The name and address or symbol of the manufacturer or the approval agency certifying compliance with subparts N and O of this part. Symbols, if used, must be registered with the Associate Administrator.

(vii) The stacking test load in kilograms (kg). For IBCs not designed for stacking, the figure "0" must be shown.

(viii) The maximum permissible gross mass in kg.

(2) The following are examples of symbols and required markings:

(i) For a metal IBC containing solids discharged by gravity made from steel:

(ii) For a flexible IBC containing solids discharged by gravity and made from woven plastic with a liner:

(iii) For a rigid plastic IBC containing liquids, made from plastic with structural equipment withstanding the stack load and with a manufacturer's symbol in place of the manufacturer's name and address:

(iv) For a composite IBC containing liquids, with a rigid plastic inner receptacle and an outer steel body and with the symbol of a DOT approved third-party test laboratory:
