
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart N - IBC Performance-Oriented Standards
####### ยง 178.703 Marking of IBCs.
######## Additional marking.

(b)In addition to markings required in paragraph (a) of this section, each IBC must be marked as follows in a place near the markings required in paragraph (a) of this section that is readily accessible for inspection. Where units of measure are used, the metric unit indicated (e.g., 450 L) must also appear.

(1) For each rigid plastic and composite IBC, the following markings must be included:

(i) Rated capacity in L of water at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F);

(ii) Tare mass in kilograms;

(iii) Gauge test pressure in kPa;

(iv) Date of last leakproofness test, if applicable (month and year); and

(v) Date of last inspection (month and year).

(2) For each metal IBC, the following markings must be included on a metal corrosion-resistant plate:

(i) Rated capacity in L of water at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F);

(ii) Tare mass in kilograms;

(iii) Date of last leakproofness test, if applicable (month and year);

(iv) Date of last inspection (month and year);

(v) Maximum loading/discharge pressure, in kPa, if applicable;

(vi) Body material and its minimum thickness in mm; and

(vii) Serial number assigned by the manufacturer.

(3) Markings required by paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section may be preceded by the narrative description of the marking, e.g. "Tare Mass: * * *" where the "* * *" are replaced with the tare mass in kilograms of the IBC.

(4) For each fiberboard and wooden IBC, the tare mass in kg must be shown.

(5) Each flexible IBC may be marked with a pictogram displaying recommended lifting methods.

(6) For each composite IBC, the inner receptacle must be marked with at least the following information as required by paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section. Additionally, the marking must be visible while inside of the outer receptacle. If the marking is not visible from the outer receptacle, the marking must be duplicated on the outer receptacle and include an indication that the marking applies to the inner receptacle.

(i) The code number designating the IBC design type, the name and address or symbol of the manufacturer, the date of manufacture and the country authorizing the allocation of the mark as specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The date of manufacture of the inner receptacle may be different from the marked date of manufacture required by ยง 178.703(a)(1)(iv) or by ยง 180.352(d)(1)(iv) of this subchapter; and

(ii) When a composite IBC is designed in such a manner that the outer casing is intended to be dismantled for transport when empty (such as, for the return of the IBC for reuse to the original consignor), each of the parts intended to be detached when so dismantled must be marked with the month and year of manufacture and the name or symbol of the manufacturer.

(7) The symbol applicable to an IBC designed for stacking or not designed for stacking, as appropriate, must be marked on all IBCs manufactured, repaired or remanufactured after January 1, 2011 as follows:

(i)

(ii) Display the symbol in a durable and visible manner.

(iii) The symbol must be a square with each side being not less than 100 mm (3.9 inches) by 100 mm (3.9 inches) as measured from the corner printer marks shown on the figures in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section. Where dimensions are not specified, all features must be in approximate proportion to those shown.
