
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart N - IBC Performance-Oriented Standards
####### ยง 178.705 Standards for metal IBCs.
######## Body.

(1)The body must be made of ductile metal materials. Welds must be made so as to maintain design type integrity of the receptacle under conditions normally incident to transportation.

(i) The use of dissimilar metals must not result in deterioration that could affect the integrity of the body.

(ii) Aluminum IBCs intended to contain flammable liquids must have no movable parts, such as covers and closures, made of unprotected steel liable to rust, which might cause a dangerous reaction from friction or percussive contact with the aluminum.

(iii) Metals used in fabricating the body of a metal IBC must meet the following requirements:

(A) For steel, the percentage elongation at fracture must not be less than 10,000/Rm with a minimum of 20 percent; where Rm = minimum tensile strength of the steel to be used, in N/mm; if U.S. Standard units of psi are used for tensile strength then the ratio becomes 10,000 x (145/Rm).

(B) For aluminum, the percentage elongation at fracture must not be less than 10,000/(6Rm) with an absolute minimum of eight percent; if U.S. Standard units of psi are used for tensile strength then the ratio becomes 10,000 x 145 / (6Rm).

(C) Specimens used to determine the elongation at fracture must be taken transversely to the direction of rolling and be so secured that:
