
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart N - IBC Performance-Oriented Standards
####### ยง 178.706 Standards for rigid plastic IBCs.

(a) The provisions in this section apply to rigid plastic IBCs intended to contain solids or liquids. Rigid plastic IBC types are designated:

(1) 11H1 fitted with structural equipment designed to withstand the whole load when IBCs are stacked, for solids which are loaded or discharged by gravity.

(2) 11H2 freestanding, for solids which are loaded or discharged by gravity.

(3) 21H1 fitted with structural equipment designed to withstand the whole load when IBCs are stacked, for solids which are loaded or discharged under pressure.

(4) 21H2 freestanding, for solids which are loaded or discharged under pressure.

(5) 31H1 fitted with structural equipment designed to withstand the whole load when IBCs are stacked, for liquids.

(6) 31H2 freestanding, for liquids.

(b) Rigid plastic IBCs consist of a rigid plastic body, which may have structural equipment, together with appropriate service equipment.

(c) Rigid plastic IBCs must be manufactured from plastic material of known specifications and be of a strength relative to its capacity and to the service it is required to perform. In addition to conformance to ยง 173.24 of this subchapter, plastic materials must be resistant to aging and to degradation caused by ultraviolet radiation.

(1) If protection against ultraviolet radiation is necessary, it must be provided by the addition of a pigment or inhibiter such as carbon black. These additives must be compatible with the contents and remain effective throughout the life of the IBC body. Where use is made of carbon black, pigments or inhibitors, other than those used in the manufacture of the tested design type, retesting may be omitted if changes in the carbon black content, the pigment content or the inhibitor content do not adversely affect the physical properties of the material of construction.

(2) Additives may be included in the composition of the plastic material to improve the resistance to aging or to serve other purposes, provided they do not adversely affect the physical or chemical properties of the material of construction.

(3) No used material other than production residues or regrind from the same manufacturing process may be used in the manufacture of rigid plastic IBCs.

(4) Rigid plastic IBCs intended for the transportation of liquids must be capable of releasing a sufficient amount of vapor to prevent the body of the IBC from rupturing if it is subjected to an internal pressure in excess of that for which it was hydraulically tested. This may be achieved by spring-loaded or non-reclosing pressure relief devices or by other means of construction.

(d) Rigid plastic IBCs may not have a volumetric capacity greater than 3,000 L (793 gallons) or less than 450 L (119 gallons).
