
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart N - IBC Performance-Oriented Standards
####### ยง 178.709 Standards for wooden IBCs.
######## i.e.

(i) Natural wood used in the construction of an IBC must be well-seasoned, commercially dry, and free from defects that would materially lessen the strength of any part of the IBC. Each IBC part must consist of uncut wood or a piece equivalent in strength and integrity. IBC parts are equivalent to one piece when a suitable method of glued assembly is used (, a Lindermann joint, tongue and groove joint, ship lap or rabbet joint, or butt joint with at least two corrugated metal fasteners at each joint, or when other methods at least equally effective are used). Materials other than natural wood may be used for the construction of structural equipment of the outer packaging.

(ii) Plywood used in construction of bodies must be at least 3-ply. Plywood must be made of well-seasoned, rotary-cut, sliced or sawn veneer, commercially dry, and free from defects that would materially lessen the strength of the body. All adjacent plies must be glued with water-resistant adhesive. Materials other than plywood may be used for the construction of structural equipment of the outer packaging.

(iii) Reconstituted wood used in construction of bodies must be water resistant reconstituted wood such as hardboard or particle board. Materials other than reconstituted wood may be used for the construction of structural equipment of the outer packaging.

(iv) Wooden IBCs must be firmly nailed or secured to corner posts or ends or be assembled by similar devices.

(3) The strength of the material used and the construction of the liner must be appropriate to the capacity of the IBC and its intended use. Joints and closures must be sift-proof and capable of withstanding pressures and impacts liable to occur under normal conditions of handling and transportation.

(4) Any integral pallet base forming part of an IBC, or any detachable pallet, must be suitable for the mechanical handling of an IBC filled to its maximum permissible gross mass.

(i) The pallet or integral base must be designed to avoid protrusions that may cause damage to the IBC in handling.

(ii) The outer packaging must be secured to any detachable pallet to ensure stability in handling and transportation. Where a detachable pallet is used, its top surface must be free from sharp protrusions that might damage the IBC.

(iii) Strengthening devices, such as timber supports to increase stacking performance, may be used but must be external to the inner liner.

(iv) The load-bearing surfaces of IBCs intended for stacking must be designed to distribute loads in a stable manner.

(d) Wooden IBCs may not have a volumetric capacity greater than 3,000 L (793 gallons) or less than 450 L (119 gallons).
