
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart O - Testing of IBCs
####### ยง 178.810 Drop test.
######## Special preparation for the drop test.

(b)(1) Metal, rigid plastic, and composite IBCs intended to contain solids must be filled to not less than 95 percent of their maximum capacity, or if intended to contain liquids, to not less than 98 percent of their maximum capacity. Pressure relief devices must be removed and their apertures plugged or rendered inoperative.

(2) Fiberboard and wooden IBCs must be filled with a solid material to not less than 95 percent of their maximum capacity; the contents must be evenly distributed.

(3) Flexible IBCs must be filled to the maximum permissible gross mass; the contents must be evenly distributed.

(4) Rigid plastic IBCs and composite IBCs with plastic inner receptacles must be conditioned for testing by reducing the temperature of the packaging and its contents to -18 &#xB0;C (0 &#xB0;F) or lower. Test liquids must be kept in the liquid state, if necessary, by the addition of anti-freeze. Water/anti-freeze solutions with a minimum specific gravity of 0.95 for testing at -18 &#xB0;C (0 &#xB0;F) or lower are considered acceptable test liquids, and may be considered equivalent to water for test purposes. IBCs conditioned in this way are not required to be conditioned in accordance with ยง 178.802.
