
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart O - Testing of IBCs
####### ยง 178.812 Top lift test.
######## Test method.

(c)(1) A metal or flexible IBC must be lifted in the manner for which it is designed until clear of the floor and maintained in that position for a period of five minutes.

(2) Rigid plastic and composite IBC design types must be:

(i) Lifted by each pair of diagonally opposite lifting devices, so that the hoisting forces are applied vertically, for a period of five minutes; and

(ii) Lifted by each pair of diagonally opposite lifting devices, so that the hoisting forces are applied towards the center at 45&#xB0; to the vertical, for a period of five minutes.

(3) If not tested as indicated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a flexible IBC design type must be tested as follows:

(i) Fill the flexible IBC to 95% full with a material representative of the product to be shipped.

(ii) Suspend the flexible IBC by its lifting devices.

(iii) Apply a constant downward force through a specially designed platen. The platen will be a minimum of 60% and a maximum of 80% of the cross sectional surface area of the flexible IBC.

(iv) The combination of the mass of the filled flexible IBC and the force applied through the platen must be a minimum of six times the maximum net mass of the flexible IBC. The test must be conducted for a period of five minutes.

(v) Other equally effective methods of top lift testing and preparation may be used with approval of the Associate Administrator.
