
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart O - Testing of IBCs
####### ยง 178.814 Hydrostatic pressure test.
######## Hydrostatic gauge pressure applied.

(d)(1) For metal IBC design types, 31A, 31B, 31N: 65 kPa gauge pressure (9.4 psig).

(2) For metal IBC design types 21A, 21B, 21N, 31A, 31B, 31N: 200 kPa (29 psig). For metal IBC design types 31A, 31B and 31N, the tests in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section must be conducted consecutively.

(3) For metal IBCs design types 21A, 21B, and 21N, for Packing Group I solids: 250 kPa (36 psig) gauge pressure.

(4) For rigid plastic IBC design types 21H1 and 21H2 and composite IBC design types 21HZ1 and 21HZ2: 75 kPa (11 psig).

(5) For rigid plastic IBC design types 31H1 and 31H2 and composite IBC design types 31HZ1 and 31HZ2: whichever is the greater of:

(i) The pressure determined by any one of the following methods:

(A) The gauge pressure (pressure in the IBC above ambient atmospheric pressure) measured in the IBC at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) multiplied by a safety factor of 1.5. This pressure must be determined on the basis of the IBC being filled and closed to no more than 98 percent capacity at 15 &#xB0;C (60 &#xB0;F);

(B) If absolute pressure (vapor pressure of the hazardous material plus atmospheric pressure) is used, 1.5 multiplied by the vapor pressure of the hazardous material at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) minus 100 kPa (14.5 psi). If this method is chosen, the hydrostatic test pressure applied must be at least 100 kPa gauge pressure (14.5 psig); or

(C) If absolute pressure (vapor pressure of the hazardous material plus atmospheric pressure) is used, 1.75 multiplied by the vapor pressure of the hazardous material at 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) minus 100 kPa (14.5 psi). If this method is chosen, the hydrostatic test pressure applied must be at least 100 kPa gauge pressure (14.5 psig); or

(ii) Twice the greater of: (A) The static pressure of the hazardous material on the bottom of the IBC filled to 98 percent capacity; or

(B) The static pressure of water on the bottom of the IBC filled to 98 percent capacity.
