
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart P - Large Packagings Standards
####### § 178.915 General Large Packaging standards.

(a) Each Large Packaging must be resistant to, or protected from, deterioration due to exposure to the external environment. Large Packagings intended for solid hazardous materials must be sift-proof and water-resistant.

(b) All service equipment must be positioned or protected to minimize potential loss of contents resulting from damage during Large Packaging handling and transportation.

(c) Each Large Packaging, including attachments and service and structural equipment, must be designed to withstand, without loss of hazardous materials, the internal pressure of the contents and the stresses of normal handling and transport. A Large Packaging intended for stacking must be designed for stacking. Any lifting or securing features of a Large Packaging must be sufficient strength to withstand the normal conditions of handling and transportation without gross distortion or failure and must be positioned so as to cause no undue stress in any part of the Large Packaging.

(d) A Large Packaging consisting of packagings within a framework must be so constructed that the packaging is not damaged by the framework and is retained within the framework at all times.

(e) Large Packaging design types must be constructed in such a way as to be bottom-lifted or top-lifted as specified in §§ 178.970 and 178.975.
