
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart P - Large Packagings Standards
####### ยง 178.925 Standards for rigid plastic Large Packagings.

(a) The provisions in this section apply to rigid plastic Large Packagings intended to contain liquids and solids. Rigid plastic Large Packaging types are designated:

(1) 50H rigid plastics.

(2) [Reserved]

(b) A rigid plastic Large Packaging must be manufactured from plastic material of known specifications and be of a strength relative to its capacity and to the service it is required to perform. In addition to conformance to ยง 173.24 of this subchapter, plastic materials must be resistant to aging and to degradation caused by ultraviolet radiation.

(1) If protection against ultraviolet radiation is necessary, it must be provided by the addition of a pigment or inhibiter such as carbon black to plastic materials. These additives must be compatible with the contents and remain effective throughout the life of the plastic Large Packaging body. Where use is made of carbon black, pigments or inhibitors, other than those used in the manufacture of the tested design type, retesting may be omitted if changes in the carbon black content, the pigment content or the inhibitor content do not adversely affect the physical properties of the material of construction.

(2) Additives may be included in the composition of the plastic material to improve the resistance to aging or to serve other purposes, provided they do not adversely affect the physical or chemical properties of the material of construction.

(3) No used material other than production residues or regrind from the same manufacturing process may be used in the manufacture of rigid plastic Large Packagings.

(c) Rigid plastic Large Packagings:

(1) May not have a volumetric capacity greater than 3,000 L (793 gallons); and

(2) May not have a volumetric capacity less than 450 L (119 gallons).
