
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart R - Flexible Bulk Container Standards
####### § 178.1010 Marking of Flexible Bulk Containers.

(a) The manufacturer must:

(1) Mark every Flexible Bulk Container in a durable and clearly visible manner. The marking may be applied in a single line or in multiple lines provided the correct sequence is followed with the information required by this section. The following information is required in the sequence presented:

(i) Except as provided in § 178.503(e)(1)(ii), the United Nations packaging symbol as illustrated in § 178.503(e)(1)(i).

(ii) The code number designating the Flexible Bulk Container design type according to § 178.1005. The letter "W" must follow the Flexible Bulk Container design type identification code on a Flexible Bulk Container when the Flexible Bulk Container differs from the requirements in subpart R of this part, or is tested using methods other than those specified in this subpart, and is approved by the Associate Administrator in accordance with § 178.1035;

(iii) The capital letter Z identifying that the Flexible Bulk Container meets Packing Group III performance standard under which the design type has been successfully tested.

(iv) The month (designated numerically) and year (last two digits) of manufacture;

(v) The country authorizing the allocation of the mark. The letters "USA" indicate that the Flexible Bulk Container is manufactured and marked in the United States in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.

(vi) The name and address or symbol of the manufacturer or the approval agency certifying compliance with subpart R and subpart S of this part. Symbols, if used, must be registered with the Associate Administrator.

(vii) The stacking test load in kilograms (kg). For Flexible Bulk Containers not designed for stacking the figure "0" must be shown.

(viii) The maximum permissible gross mass in kg.

(2) The following is an example of symbols and required markings for a Flexible Bulk container suitable for stacking; stacking load: 1,000 kg; maximum gross mass: 2,500 kg.

(b) [Reserved]
