
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart R - Flexible Bulk Container Standards
####### ยง 178.1015 General Flexible Bulk Container standards.

(a) Each Flexible Bulk Containers must be sift-proof and completely closed during transport to prevent the release of contents and waterproof.

(b) Parts of the Flexible Bulk Container that are in direct contact with hazardous materials:

(1) Must not be affected or significantly weakened by those hazardous materials.

(2) Must not cause a dangerous effect with the dangerous goods (e.g., catalyzing a reaction or reacting with the hazardous materials).

(3) Must not allow permeation of the hazardous materials that could constitute a danger under conditions normally incident to transportation.

(c) Filling and discharge devices must be so constructed as to be protected against damage during transport and handling. The filling and discharge devices must be capable of being secured against unintended opening.

(d) Slings of the Flexible Bulk Container, if fitted with such, must withstand pressure and dynamic forces which can be expected under conditions normally incident to transportation.

(e) Handling devices must be strong enough to withstand repeated use.

(f) A venting device must be fitted to Flexible Bulk Containers intended to transport hazardous materials that may develop dangerous accumulation of gases within the Flexible Bulk Container. Any venting device must be designed so that external foreign substances or the ingress of water are prevented from entering the Flexible Bulk Container through the venting device under conditions normally incident to transportation.
