
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### § 178.2 Applicability and responsibility.
####### Notification.

(c)(1) Except as specifically provided in §§ 178.337-18, 178.338-19, and 178.345-15 of this part, the manufacturer or other person certifying compliance with the requirements of this part, and each subsequent distributor of that packaging must:

(i) Notify each person to whom that packaging is transferred-

(A) Of all requirements in this part not met at the time of transfer, and

(B) With information specifying the type(s) and dimensions of the closures, including gaskets and any other components needed to ensure that the packaging is capable of successfully passing the applicable performance tests. This information must include any procedures to be followed, including closure instructions for inner packagings and receptacles, to effectively assemble and close the packaging for the purpose of preventing leakage in transportation. Closure instructions must provide for a consistent and repeatable means of closure that is sufficient to ensure the packaging is closed in the same manner as it was tested. For packagings sold or represented as being in conformance with the requirements of this subchapter applicable to transportation by aircraft, this information must include relevant guidance to ensure that the packaging, as prepared for transportation, will withstand the pressure differential requirements in § 173.27 of this subchapter.

(ii) Retain copies of each written notification for at least one year from date of issuance; and

(iii) Make copies of all written notifications available for inspection by a representative of the Department.

(2) The notification required in accordance with this paragraph (c) may be in writing or by electronic means, including e-mailed transmission or transmission on a CD or similar device. If a manufacturer or subsequent distributor of the packaging utilizes electronic means to make the required notifications, the notification must be specific to the packaging in question and must be in a form that can be printed in hard copy by the person receiving the notification.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a packaging not conforming to the applicable specifications or standards in this part may not be marked to indicate such conformance.
