
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 178 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR PACKAGINGS
###### ยง 178.3 Marking of packagings.

(a) Each packaging represented as manufactured to a DOT specification or a UN standard must be marked on a non-removable component of the packaging with specification markings conforming to the applicable specification, and with the following:

(1) In an unobstructed area, with letters, and numerals identifying the standards or specification (e.g. UN 1A1, DOT 4B240ET, etc.).

(2) Unless otherwise specified in this part, the name and address or symbol of the packaging manufacturer or the person certifying compliance with a UN standard. Symbols, if used, must be registered with the Associate Administrator. Unless authorized in writing by the holder of the symbol, symbols must represent either the packaging manufacturer or the approval agency responsible for providing the most recent certification for the packaging through design certification testing or periodic retesting, as applicable. Duplicative symbols are not authorized.

(3) The markings must be stamped, embossed, burned, printed or otherwise marked on the packaging to provide adequate accessibility, permanency, contrast, and legibility so as to be readily apparent and understood.

(4) Unless otherwise specified, letters and numerals must be at least 12.0 mm (0.47 inches) in height except for packagings of less than or equal to 30 L (7.9 gallons) capacity for liquids or 30 kg (66 pounds) maximum net mass for solids the height must be at least 6.0 mm (0.2 inches). For packagings having a capacity of 5 L (1.3 gallons) or less or of 5 kg (11 pounds) maximum net mass, letters and numerals must be of an appropriate size.

(5) For packages with a gross mass of more than 30 kg (66 pounds), the markings or a duplicate thereof must appear on the top or on a side of the packaging.

(b) A UN standard packaging for which the UN standard is set forth in this part may be marked with the United Nations symbol and other specification markings only if it fully conforms to the requirements of this part. A UN standard packaging for which the UN standard is not set forth in this part may be marked with the United Nations symbol and other specification markings for that standard as provided in the ICAO Technical Instructions or the IMDG Code subject to the following conditions:

(1) The U.S. manufacturer must establish that the packaging conforms to the applicable provisions of the ICAO Technical Instructions (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter) or the IMDG Code (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter), respectively.

(2) If an indication of the name of the manufacturer or other identification of the packaging as specified by the competent authority is required, the name and address or symbol of the manufacturer or the approval agency certifying compliance with the UN standard must be entered. Symbols, if used, must be registered with the Associate Administrator.

(3) The letters "USA" must be used to indicate the State authorizing the allocation of the specification marks if the packaging is manufactured in the United States.

(c) Where a packaging conforms to more than one UN standard or DOT specification, the packaging may bear more than one marking, provided the packaging meets all the requirements of each standard or specification. Where more than one marking appears on a packaging, each marking must appear in its entirety.

(d) No person may mark or otherwise certify a packaging or container as meeting the requirements of a manufacturing special permit unless that person is the holder of or a party to that special permit, an agent of the holder or party for the purpose of marking or certification, or a third party tester.
