
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart A - Introduction, Approvals and Reports
####### ยง 179.1 General.

(a) This part prescribes the specifications for tanks that are to be mounted on or form part of a tank car and which are to be marked with a DOT specification.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, tanks to which this part is applicable, must be built to the specifications prescribed in this part.

(c) Tanks built to specifications predating those in this part may continue in use as provided in ยง 180.507 of this subchapter.

(d) Any person who performs a function prescribed in this part, shall perform that function in accordance with this part.

(e) When this part requires a tank to be marked with a DOT specification (for example, DOT-105A100W), compliance with that requirement is the responsibility of the tank builder. Marking the tank with the DOT specification shall be understood to certify compliance by the builder that the functions performed by the builder, as prescribed in this part, have been performed in compliance with this part.

(f) The tank builder should inform each person to whom that tank is transferred of any specification requirements which have not been met at time of transfer.
