
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Subpart B - ACDBE Programs
##### ยง 23.25 What measures must recipients include in their ACDBE programs to ensure nondiscriminatory participation of ACDBEs in concessions?
###### see

(7) Establishing a business development program (part 26, ยง 26.35); technical assistance program; or taking other steps to foster ACDBE participation in concessions.

(e) Your ACDBE program must also provide for the use of race-conscious measures when race-neutral measures, standing alone, are not projected to be sufficient to meet an overall goal. The following are examples of race-conscious measures you can implement:

(1) Establishing concession-specific goals for particular concession opportunities.

(i) If the objective of the concession-specific goal is to obtain ACDBE participation through a direct ownership arrangement with a ACDBE, calculate the goal as a percentage of the total estimated annual gross receipts from the concession.

(ii) If the goal applies to purchases and/or leases of goods and services, calculate the goal by dividing the estimated dollar value of such purchases and/or leases from ACDBEs by the total estimated dollar value of all purchases to be made by the concessionaire.

(iii) To be eligible to be awarded the concession, competitors must make good faith efforts to meet this goal. A competitor may do so either by obtaining enough ACDBE participation to meet the goal or by documenting that it made sufficient good faith efforts to do so.

(iv) The administrative procedures applicable to contract goals in part 26, ยง 26.51-53, apply with respect to concession-specific goals.

(2) Negotiation with a potential concessionaire to include ACDBE participation, through direct ownership arrangements or measures, in the operation of the concession.

(3) With the prior approval of FAA, other methods that take a competitor's ability to provide ACDBE participation into account in awarding a concession.

(f) Your ACDBE program must require businesses subject to ACDBE goals at the airport (except car rental companies) to make good faith efforts to explore all available options to meet goals, to the maximum extent practicable, through direct ownership arrangements with DBEs.

(g) As provided in ยง 23.61 of this part, you must not use set-asides and quotas as means of obtaining ACDBE participation.
