
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart B - General Design Requirements
####### ยง 179.15 Pressure relief devices.
######## Settings for reclosing pressure relief devices.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a reclosing pressure relief valve must have a minimum start-to-discharge pressure equal to the sum of the static head and gas padding pressure and the lading vapor pressure at the following reference temperatures:

(i) 46 &#xB0;C (115 &#xB0;F) for noninsulated tanks;

(ii) 43 &#xB0;C (110 &#xB0;F) for tanks having a thermal protection system incorporating a metal jacket that provides an overall thermal conductance at 15.5 &#xB0;C (60 &#xB0;F) of no more than 10.22 kilojoules per hour per square meter per degree Celsius (0.5 Btu per hour/per square foot/per degree F) temperature differential; and

(iii) 41 &#xB0;C (105 &#xB0;F) for insulated tanks.

(2)(i) The start-to-discharge pressure of a pressure relief device may not be lower than 5.17 Bar (75 psig) or exceed 33 percent of the minimum tank burst pressure.

(ii) Tanks built prior to October 1, 1997 having a minimum tank burst pressure of 34.47 Bar (500 psig) or less may be equipped with a reclosing pressure relief valve having a start-to-discharge pressure of not less than 14.5 percent of the minimum tank burst pressure but no more than 33 percent of the minimum tank burst pressure.

(3) The vapor tight pressure of a reclosing pressure relief valve must be at least 80 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure.

(4) The flow rating pressure must be 110 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure for tanks having a minimum tank burst pressure greater than 34.47 Bar (500 psig) and from 110 percent to 130 percent for tanks having a minimum tank burst pressure less than or equal to 34.47 Bar (500 psig).

(5) The tolerance for a reclosing pressure relief valve is +/-3 psi for valves with a start-to-discharge pressure of 6.89 Bar (100 psig) or less and +/-3 percent for valves with a start-to-discharge pressure greater than 6.89 Bar (100 psig).
