
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart B - General Design Requirements
####### ยง 179.15 Pressure relief devices.
######## Combination pressure relief systems.

(e)A non-reclosing pressure relief device may be used in series with a reclosing pressure relief valve. The pressure relief valve must be located outboard of the non-reclosing pressure relief device.

(1) When a breaking pin device is used in combination with a reclosing pressure relief valve, the breaking pin must be designed to fail at the start-to-discharge pressure specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and the reclosing pressure relief valve must be designed to discharge at not greater than 95 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure.

(2) When a rupture disc is used in combination with a reclosing pressure relief valve, the rupture disc must be designed to burst at the pressure specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and the reclosing pressure relief valve must be designed to discharge at not greater than 95 percent of the pressure. A device must be installed to detect any accumulation of pressure between the rupture disc and the reclosing pressure relief valve. The detection device must be a needle valve, trycock, or tell-tale indicator. The detection device must be closed during transportation.

(3) The vapor tight pressure and the start-to-discharge tolerance is based on the discharge setting of the reclosing pressure relief device.
