
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart C - Specifications for Pressure Tank Car Tanks (Classes DOT-105, 109, 112, 114 and 120)
####### § 179.102-4 Vinyl fluoride, stabilized.
######## see

(1) Stainless steel, ASTM A 240/A 240M (IBR,§ 171.7 of this subchapter), Type 304, 304L, 316 or 316L, in which case impact tests are not required; or

(2) Steel complying with ASTM Specification A 516 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter); Grade 70; ASTM Specification A 537 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), Class 1; or AAR Specification TC 128, Grade B, in which case impact tests must be performed as follows:

(i) ASTM A 516/A 516M and A 537/A 537M material must meet the Charpy V-Notch test requirements, in longitudinal direction of rolling, of ASTM A 20/A 20M (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) AAR Specification TC 128 material must meet the Charpy V-Notch test requirements, in longitudinal direction of rolling, of 15 ft.-lb. minimum average for 3 specimens, with a 10 ft.-lb. minimum for any one specimen, at minus 50 &#xB0;F or colder, in accordance with ASTM A 370 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(iii) Production welded test plates must-

(A) Be prepared in accordance with AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix W, W4.00 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter);

(B) Include impact specimens of weld metal and heat affected zone prepared and tested in accordance with AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix W, W9.00; and

(C) Meet the same impact requirements as the plate material.

(b) Insulation must be of approved material.

(c) Excess flow valves must be installed under all liquid and vapor valves, except safety relief valves.

(d) A thermometer well may be installed.

(e) Only an approved gaging device may be installed.

(f) A pressure gage may be installed.

(g) Aluminum, copper, silver, zinc, or an alloy containing any of these metals may not be used in the tank construction, or in fittings in contact with the lading.

(h) The jacket must be stenciled, adjacent to the water capacity stencil,

(i) The tank car and insulation must be designed to prevent the vapor pressure of the lading from increasing from the pressure at the maximum allowable filling density to the start-to-discharge pressure of the reclosing pressure relief valve within 30 days, at an ambient temperature of 90 &#xB0;F.
