
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart D - Specifications for Non-Pressure Tank Car Tanks (Classes DOT-111AW, 115AW, and 117AW)
####### ยง 179.200-17 Bottom outlets.

(a) If indicated in ยง 179.201-1, tank may be equipped with bottom outlet. Bottom outlet, if applied, must comply with the following requirements:

(1) The extreme projection of the bottom outlet equipment may not be more than that allowed by appendix E of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). All bottom outlet reducers and closures and their attachments shall be secured to the car by at least-inch chain, or its equivalent, except that the bottom outlet closure plugs may be attached by-inch chain. When the bottom outlet closure is of the combination cap and valve type, the pipe connection to the valve shall be closed by a plug, cap, or approved quick coupling device. The bottom outlet equipment should include only the valve, reducers and closures that are necessary for the attachment of unloading fixtures. The permanent attachment of supplementary exterior fittings shall be approved by the AAR Committee on Tank Cars.

(2) Bottom outlet must be of approved construction, and be provided with a liquid-tight closure at its lower end.

(3) On cars with center sills, a ball valve may be welded to the outside bottom of the tank or mounted on a pad or nozzle with a tongue and groove or male and female flange attachment. In no case shall the breakage groove or equivalent extend below the bottom flange of the center sill. On cars without continuous center sills, a ball valve may be welded to the outside bottom of the tank or mounted with a tongue and groove or male and female flange attachment on a pad attached to the outside bottom of the tank. The mounting pad must have a maximum thickness of 2inches measured on the longitudinal centerline of the tank. The valve operating mechanism must be provided with a suitable locking arrangement to insure positive closure during transit.

(4) The valve operating mechanism for valves applied to the interior of the tank, and outlet nozzle construction, must insure against the unseating of the valve due to stresses or shocks incident to transportation.

(5) Bottom outlet nozzle of interior valves and the valve body of exterior valves, must be of cast, fabricated, or forged metal. If welded to tank, they must be of good weldable quality in conjunction with metal of tank.

(6) To provide for the attachment of unloading connections, the discharge end of the bottom outlet nozzle or reducer, the valve body of the exterior valve, or some fixed attachment thereto, shall be provided with one of the following arrangements or an approved modification thereof. (See appendix E. Fig. E17 of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars for illustrations of some of the possible arrangements.)

(i) A bolted flange closure arrangement including a minimum 1-inch NPT pipe plug (see Fig. E17.1) or including an auxiliary valve with a threaded closure.

(ii) A threaded cap closure arrangement including a minimum 1-inch NPT pipe plug (see Fig. E17.2) or including an auxiliary valve with a threaded closure.

(iii) A quick-coupling device using a threaded plug closure of at least 1-inch NPT or having a threaded cap closure with a minimum 1-inch NPT pipe plug (see Fig. E17.3 through E17.5). A minimum 1-inch auxiliary test valve with a threaded closure may be substituted for the 1-inch pipe plug (see Fig. E17.6). If the threaded cap closure does not have a pipe plug or integral auxiliary test valve, a minimum 1-inch NPT pipe plug shall be installed in the outlet nozzle above the closure (see Fig. E17.7).

(iv) A two-piece quick-coupling device using a clamped dust cap must include an in-line auxiliary valve, either integral with the quick-coupling device or located between the primary bottom outlet valve and the quick-coupling device. The quick-coupling device closure dust cap or outlet nozzle shall be fitted with a minimum 1-inch NPT closure (see Fig. E17.8 and E17.9).

(7) If the outlet nozzle extends 6 inches or more from the shell of the tank, a V-shaped breakage groove shall be cut (not cast) in the upper part of the outlet nozzle at a point immediately below the lowest part of valve closest to the tank. In no case may the nozzle wall thickness at the root of the "V" be more thaninch. The outlet nozzle on interior valves or the valve body on exterior valves may be steam jacketed, in which case the breakage groove or its equivalent must be below the steam chamber but above the bottom of center sill construction. If the outlet nozzle is not a single piece, or if exterior valves are applied, provisions shall be made for the equivalent of the breakage groove. On cars without continuous center sills, the breakage groove or its equivalent must be no more than 15 inches below the tank shell. On cars with continuous center sills, the breakage groove or its equivalent must be above the bottom of the center sill construction.

(8) The flange on the outlet nozzle or the valve body of exterior valves must be of a thickness which will prevent distortion of the valve seat or valve by any change in contour of the shell resulting from expansion of lading, or other causes, and which will insure that accidental breakage of the outlet nozzle will occur at or below the "V" groove, or its equivalent.

(9) The valve must have no wings or stem projecting below the "V" groove or its equivalent. The valve and seat must be readily accessible or removable for repairs, including grinding.

(10) The valve operating mechanism on interior valves must have means for compensating for variation in the vertical diameter of the tank produced by expansion, weight of the liquid contents, or other causes, and may operate from the interior of the tank, but in the event the rod is carried through the dome, or tank shell, leakage must be prevented by packing in stuffing box or other suitable seals and a cap.

(b) If indicated in ยง 179.201-1, tank may be equipped with bottom washout of approved construction. If applied, bottom washout shall be in accordance with the following requirements:

(1) The extreme projection of the bottom washout equipment may not be more than that allowed by appendix E of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars.

(2) Bottom washout shall be of cast, forged or fabricated metal. If welded to tank, they shall be of good weldable quality in conjunction with metal of tank.

(3) If the washout nozzle extends 6 inches or more from the shell of the tank, a V-shaped breakage groove shall be cut (not cast) in the upper part of the nozzle at a point immediately below the lowest part of the inside closure seat or plug. In no case may the nozzle wall thickness at the root of the "V" be more thaninch. Where the nozzle is not a single piece, provisions shall be made for the equivalent of the breakage groove. The nozzle must be of a thickness to insure that accidental breakage will occur at or below the "V" groove or its equivalent. On cars without continuous center sills, the breakage groove or its equivalent may not be more than 15 inches below the outer shell. On cars with continuous center sills, the breakage groove or its equivalent must be above the bottom of the center sill construction.

(4) The closure plug and seat must be readily accessible or removable for repairs, including grinding.

(5) The closure of the washout nozzle must be equipped with a-inch solid screw plug. Plug must be attached by at least a-inch chain.

(6) Joints between closures and their seats may be gasketed with suitable material.
