
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Subpart C - Certification and Eligibility of ACDBEs
##### ยง 23.39 What other certification requirements apply in the case of ACDBEs?
###### e.g.

(e) When you remove a concessionaire's eligibility after the concessionaire has entered a concession agreement, because the firm exceeded the small business size standard or because an owner has exceeded the personal net worth standard, and the firm in all other respects remains an eligible DBE, you may continue to count the concessionaire's participation toward DBE goals during the remainder of the current concession agreement. However, you must not count the concessionaire's participation toward DBE goals beyond the termination date for the concession agreement in effect at the time of the decertification (, in a case where the agreement is renewed or extended, or an option for continued participation beyond the current term of the agreement is exercised).

(f) When UCPs are established in a state (see part 26, ยง 26.81), the UCP, rather than individual recipients, certifies firms for the ACDBE concession program.

(g) You must use the Uniform Application Form found in appendix F to part 26. However, you must instruct applicants to take the following additional steps:

(1) In the space available in section 2(B)(7) of the form, the applicant must state that it is applying for certification as an ACDBE.

(2) With respect to section 4(C) of the form, the applicant must provide information on an attached page concerning the address/location, ownership/lease status, current value of property or lease, and fees/lease payments paid to the airport.

(3) The applicant need not complete section 4(I) and (J). However, the applicant must provide information on an attached page concerning any other airport concession businesses the applicant firm or any affiliate owns and/or operates, including name, location, type of concession, and start date of concession.

(h) Car rental companies and private terminal owners or lessees are not authorized to certify firms as ACDBEs. As a car rental company or private terminal owner or lessee, you must obtain ACDBE participation from firms which a recipient or UCPs have certified as ACDBEs.

(i) You must use the certification standards of this part to determine the ACDBE eligibility of firms that provide goods and services to concessionaires.
