
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Subpart D - Goals, Good Faith Efforts, and Counting
##### ยง 23.41 What is the basic overall goal requirement for recipients?

(a) If you are a recipient who must implement an ACDBE program, you must, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, establish two separate overall ACDBE goals. The first is for car rentals; the second is for concessions other than car rentals.

(b) If your annual car rental concession revenues, averaged over the three-years preceding the date on which you are required to submit overall goals, do not exceed $200,000, you are not required to submit a car rental overall goal. If your annual revenues for concessions other than car rentals, averaged over the three years preceding the date on which you are required to submit overall goals, do not exceed $200,000, you are not required to submit a non-car rental overall goal.

(c) Each overall goal must cover a three-year period. You must review your goals annually to make sure they continue to fit your circumstances appropriately. You must report to the FAA any significant adjustments that you make to your goal in the time before your next scheduled submission.

(d) Your goals established under this part must provide for participation by all certified ACDBEs and may not be subdivided into group-specific goals.

(e) If you fail to establish and implement goals as provided in this section, you are not in compliance with this part. If you establish and implement goals in a way different from that provided in this part, you are not in compliance with this part. If you fail to comply with this requirement, you are not eligible to receive FAA financial assistance.
