
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart D - Specifications for Non-Pressure Tank Car Tanks (Classes DOT-111AW, 115AW, and 117AW)
####### ยง 179.220-18 Bottom outlets.

(a) The inner container may be equipped with a bottom outlet of approved design and an opening provided in the outer shell of its access. If applied, the bottom outlet must comply with the following requirements:

(1) The extreme projection of the bottom outlet equipment may not be more than that allowed by appendix E of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter). All bottom outlet reducers and closures and their attachments shall be secured to car by at at least-inch chain, or its equivalent, except that bottom outlet closure plugs may be attached by-inch chain. When the bottom outlet closure is of the combination cap and valve type, the pipe connection to the valve shall be closed by a plug, or cap. The bottom outlet equipment should include only the valve, reducers and closures that are necessary for the attachment of unloading fixtures. The permanent attachment of supplementary exterior fittings shall be approved by the AAR Committee on Tank Cars.

(2) Each bottom outlet must be provided with a liquid tight closure at its lower end.

(3) The valve and its operating mechanism must be applied to the outside bottom of the inner container. The valve operating mechanism must be provided with a suitable locking arrangement to insure positive closure during transportation.

(4) Valve outlet nozzle and valve body must be of cast, fabricated or forged metal. If welded to inner container, they must be of good weldable quality in conjunction with metal of tank.

(5) To provide for the attachment of unloading connections, the bottom of the main portion of the outlet nozzle or valve body, or some fixed attachment thereto, must be provided with threaded cap closure arrangement or bolted flange closure arrangement having minimum 1-inch threaded pipe plug.

(6) If outlet nozzle and its closure extends below the bottom of the outer shell, a V-shaped breakage groove shall be cut (not cast) in the upper part of the outlet nozzle at a point immediately below the lowest part of the valve closest to the tank. In no case may the nozzle wall thickness at the root of the "V" be more than-inch. The outlet nozzle or the valve body may be steam jacketed, in which case the breakage groove or its equivalent must be below the steam chamber but above the bottom of the center sill construction. If the outlet nozzle is not a single piece or its exterior valves are applied, provision shall be made for the equivalent of the breakage groove. On cars without continuous center sills, the breakage groove or its equivalent may not be more than 15 inches below the outer shell. On cars with continuous center sills, the breakage groove or its equivalent must be above the bottom of the center sill construction.

(7) The valve body must be of a thickness which will prevent distortion of the valve seat or valve by any change in contour of the shell resulting from expansion of lading, or other causes, and which will insure that accidental breakage of the outlet nozzle will occur at or below the "V" groove, or its equivalent.

(8) The valve must have no wings or stem projection below the "V" groove or its equivalent. The valve and seat must be readily accessible or removable for repairs, including grinding.

(b) Inner container may be equipped with bottom washout of approved design. If applied, bottom washout must comply with the following requirements:

(1) The extreme projection of the bottom washout equipment may not be more than that allowed by appendix E of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars.

(2) Bottom washout must be of cast, forged or fabricated metals. If it is welded to the inner container, it must be of good weldable quality in conjunction with metal of tank.

(3) If washout nozzle extends below the bottom of the outer shell, a V-shaped breakage groove shall be cut (not cast) in the upper part of the nozzle at a point immediately below the lowest part of the inside closure seat or plug. In no case may the nozzle wall thickness at the root of the "V" be more than-inch. Where the nozzle is not a single piece, provisions shall be made for the equivalent of the breakage groove. The nozzle must be of a thickness to insure that accidental breakage will occur at or below the "V" groove or its equivalent. On cars without a continuous center sill, the breakage groove or its equivalent may not be more than 15 inches below the outer shell. On cars with continuous center sills, the breakage groove or its equivalent must be above the bottom of the center sill construction.

(4) The closure plug and seat must be readily accessible or removable for repairs.

(5) The closure of the washout nozzle must be equipped with a-inch solid screw plug. Plug must be attached by at least a-inch chain.

(6) Joints between closures and their seats may be gasketed with suitable material.
