
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Subpart D - Goals, Good Faith Efforts, and Counting
##### ยง 23.45 What are the requirements for submitting overall goal information to the FAA?

(a) You must submit your overall goals to the appropriate FAA Regional Civil Rights Office for approval. Your first set of overall goals meeting the requirements of this subpart are due on the following schedule:

(1) If you are a large or medium hub primary airport on April 21, 2005, by January 1, 2006. You must make your next submissions by October 1, 2008.

(2) If you are a small hub primary airport on April 21, 2005, by October 1, 2006.

(3) If you are a nonhub primary airport on April 21, 2005, by October 1, 2007.

(b) You must then submit new goals every three years after the date that applies to you.

(c) Timely submission and FAA approval of your overall goals is a condition of eligibility for FAA financial assistance.

(d) In the time before you make your first submission under paragraph (a) of this section, you must continue to use the overall goals that have been approved by the FAA before the effective date of this part.

(e) Your overall goal submission must include a description of the method used to calculate your goals and the data you relied on. You must "show your work" to enable the FAA to understand how you concluded your goals were appropriate. This means that you must provide to the FAA the data, calculations, assumptions, and reasoning used in establishing your goals.
