
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart F - Specification for Cryogenic Liquid Tank Car Tanks and Seamless Steel Tanks (Classes DOT-113 and 107A)
####### § 179.400-4 Insulation system and performance standard.
######## Calculated heat transfer rate.

(5)The calculated heat transfer rate (CHTR) is determined by the use of test data obtained during the NER test in the formula:

(b) DOT-113A60W tank cars must-

(1) Be filled with hydrogen, cryogenic liquid to the maximum permitted fill density specified in § 173.319(d)(2) table of this subchapter prior to performing the NER test; and

(2) Have a CHTR equal to or less than the SHTR specified in § 179.401-1 table for a DOT-113A60W tank car.

(c) DOT-113C120W tank cars must-

(1) Be filled with ethylene, cryogenic liquid to the maximum permitted fill density specified in § 173.319(d)(2) table of this subchapter prior to performing the NER test, or be filled with nitrogen, cryogenic liquid to 90 percent of the volumetric capacity of the inner tank prior to performing the NER test; and

(2) Have a CHTR equal to or less than 75 percent of the SHTR specified in § 179.401-1 table for a DOT-113C120W tank car.

(d) Insulating materials must be approved.

(e) If the insulation consists of a powder having a tendency to settle, the entire top of the cylindrical portion of the inner tank must be insulated with a layer of glass fiber insulation at least one-inch nominal thickness, or equivalent, suitably held in position and covering an area extending 25 degrees to each side of the top center line of the inner tank.

(f) The outer jacket must be provided with fittings to permit effective evacuation of the annular space between the outer jacket and the inner tank.

(g) A device to measure the absolute pressure in the annular space must be provided. The device must be portable with an easily accessible connection or permanently positioned where it is readily visible to the operator.
