
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart F - Specification for Cryogenic Liquid Tank Car Tanks and Seamless Steel Tanks (Classes DOT-113 and 107A)
####### ยง 179.400-9 Stiffening rings.

(a) If stiffening rings are used in designing the cylindrical portion of the outer jacket for external pressure, they must be attached to the jacket by means of fillet welds. Outside stiffening ring attachment welds must be continuous on each side of the ring. Inside stiffening ring attachment welds may be intermittent welds on each side of the ring with the total length of weld on each side not less than one-third of the circumference of the tank. The maximum space between welds may not exceed eight times the outer jacket wall thickness.

(b) A portion of the outer jacket may be included when calculating the moment of inertia of the ring. The effective width of jacket plate on each side of the attachment of the stiffening ring is given by the following formula:

(c) Where a stiffening ring is used that consists of a closed section having two webs attached to the outer jacket, the jacket plate between the webs may be included up to the limit of twice the value of "W", as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. The outer flange of the closed section, if not a steel structural shape, is subject to the same limitations with "W" based on the "R" and "t" values of the flange. Where two separate members such as two angles, are located less than "2W" apart they may be treated as a single stiffening ring member. (The maximum length of plate which may be considered effective is 4W.) The closed section between an external ring and the outer jacket must be provided with a drain opening.

(d) The stiffening ring must have a moment of inertia large enough to support the critical collapsing pressure, as determined by either of the following formulas:

(e) Where loads are applied to the outer jacket or to stiffening rings from the system used to support the inner tank within the outer jacket, additional stiffening rings, or an increased moment of inertia of the stiffening rings designed for the external pressure, must be provided to carry the support loads.
