
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart F - Specification for Cryogenic Liquid Tank Car Tanks and Seamless Steel Tanks (Classes DOT-113 and 107A)
####### ยง 179.400-20 Pressure relief devices.
######## Outlet piping.

(ii)(A) The opening through the discharge lines must have a cross-sectional area at least equal to that of the pressure relief device outlet and may not reduce the relieving capacity below that required to properly protect the inner tank.

(B) When the required relieving capacity is met by use of multiple pressure relief devices placed on a common discharge manifold, the manifold outlet internal cross-sectional area must be at least equal to the combined outlet areas of the pressure relief devices.

(iii) Duplicate pressure relief devices may be used when an approved 3-way selector valve is installed to provide for relief through either duplicate pressure relief device. The 3-way valve must be included in the mounting prescribed by AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix A, A6.02(g), when conducting the flow capacity test on the safety vent prescribed by AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix A, A6.01. Flow capacity tests must be performed with the 3-way valve at both of the extreme positions as well as at the mid-position and the flow capacity must be in accordance with AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix A, A8.07(a).

(iv) An alternate pressure relief valve, set as required in ยง 179.401-1, may be used in lieu of the safety vent, provided it meets the flow capacity prescribed in AAR Specifications for Tank Cars, appendix A at a flow rating pressure of 110 percent of its start-to-discharge pressure. Installation must-

(A) Prevent moisture accumulation at the seat by providing drainage away from that area,

(B) Permit periodic drainage of the vent piping, and

(C) Prevent accumulation of foreign material in the vent system.
