
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Subpart D - Goals, Good Faith Efforts, and Counting
##### § 23.51 How are a recipient's overall goals expressed and calculated?

(a) Your objective in setting a goal is to estimate the percentage of the base calculated under §§ 23.47-23.49 that would be performed by ACDBEs in the absence of discrimination and its effects.

(1) This percentage is the estimated ACDBE participation that would occur if there were a "level playing field" for firms to work as concessionaires for your airport.

(2) In conducting this goal setting process, you are determining the extent, if any, to which the firms in your market area have suffered discrimination or its effects in connection with concession opportunities or related business opportunities.

(3) You must complete the goal-setting process separately for each of the two overall goals identified in § 23.41 of this part.

(b)(1) Each overall concessions goal must be based on demonstrable evidence of the availability of ready, willing and able ACDBEs relative to all businesses ready, willing and able to participate in your ACDBE program (hereafter, the "relative availability of ACDBEs").

(2) You cannot simply rely on the 10 percent national aspirational goal, your previous overall goal, or past ACDBE participation rates in your program without reference to the relative availability of ACDBEs in your market.

(3) Your market area is defined by the geographical area in which the substantial majority of firms which seek to do concessions business with the airport are located and the geographical area in which the firms which receive the substantial majority of concessions-related revenues are located. Your market area may be different for different types of concessions.
