
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Subpart F - Specification for Cryogenic Liquid Tank Car Tanks and Seamless Steel Tanks (Classes DOT-113 and 107A)
####### ยง 179.500-3 Type and general requirements.

(a) Tanks built under this specification shall be hollow forged or drawn in one piece. Forged tanks shall be machined inside and outside before ends are necked-down and, after necking-down, the ends shall be machined to size on the ends and outside diameter. Machining not necessary on inside or outside of seamless steel tubing, but required on ends after necking-down.

(b) For tanks made in foreign countries, chemical analysis of material and all tests as specified must be carried out within the limits of the United States under supervision of a competent and disinterested inspector; in addition to which, provisions in ยง 179.500-18 (b) and (c) shall be carried out at the point of manufacture by a recognized inspection bureau with principal office in the United States.

(c) The term "marked end" and "marked test pressure" used throughout this specification are defined as follows:

(1) "Marked end" is that end of the tank on which marks prescribed in ยง 179.500-17 are stamped.

(2) "Marked test pressure" is that pressure in psig which is indicated by the figures substituted for the **** in the marking DOT-107A **** stamped on the marked end of tank.

(d) The gas pressure at 130 &#xB0;F in the tank shall not exceedof the marked test pressure of the tank.
