
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Appendix A to Part 179 - Procedures for Tank-Head Puncture-Resistance Test
####### Tank-head puncture-resistance test.

2.A tank-head puncture-resistance system must be tested under the following conditions:

a. The ram car used must weigh at least 119,295 kg (263,000 pounds), be equipped with a coupler, and duplicate the condition of a conventional draft sill including the draft yoke and draft gear. The coupler must protrude from the end of the ram car so that it is the leading location of perpendicular contact with the impacted test car.

b. The impacted test car must be loaded with water at six percent outage with internal pressure of at least 6.9 Bar (100 psig) and coupled to one or more "backup" cars which have a total weight of 217,724 kg (480,000 pounds) with hand brakes applied on the last "backup" car.

c. At least two separate tests must be conducted with the coupler on the vertical centerline of the ram car. One test must be conducted with the coupler at a height of 53.3 cm (21 inches), plus-or-minus 2.5 cm (1 inch), above the top of the sill; the other test must be conducted with the coupler height at 79 cm (31 inches), plus-or-minus 2.5 cm (1 inch), above the top of the sill. If the combined thickness of the tank head and any additional shielding material is less than the combined thickness on the vertical centerline of the car, a third test must be conducted with the coupler positioned so as to strike the thinnest point of the tank head.

3. One of the following test conditions must be applied:

4. A test is successful if there is no visible leak from the standing tank car for at least one hour after impact.
