
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 179 - SPECIFICATIONS FOR TANK CARS
###### Appendix B to Part 179 - Procedures for Simulated Pool and Torch-Fire Testing
####### Simulated pool fire test.

2.

a. A pool-fire environment must be simulated in the following manner:

(1) The source of the simulated pool fire must be hydrocarbon fuel with a flame temperature of 871 &#xB0;C plus or minus 55.6 &#xB0;C (1600 &#xB0;F plus-or-minus 100 &#xB0;F) throughout the duration of the test.

(2) A square bare plate with thermal properties equivalent to the material of construction of the tank car must be used. The plate dimensions must be not less than one foot by one foot by nominal 1.6 cm (0.625 inch) thick. The bare plate must be instrumented with not less than nine thermocouples to record the thermal response of the bare plate. The thermocouples must be attached to the surface not exposed to the simulated pool fire and must be divided into nine equal squares with a thermocouple placed in the center of each square.

(3) The pool-fire simulator must be constructed in a manner that results in total flame engulfment of the front surface of the bare plate. The apex of the flame must be directed at the center of the plate.

(4) The bare plate holder must be constructed in such a manner that the only heat transfer to the back side of the bare plate is by heat conduction through the plate and not by other heat paths.

(5) Before the bare plate is exposed to the simulated pool fire, none of the temperature recording devices may indicate a plate temperature in excess of 37.8 &#xB0;C (100 &#xB0;F) nor less than 0 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F).

(6) A minimum of two thermocouple devices must indicate 427 &#xB0;C (800 &#xB0;F) after 13 minutes, plus-or-minus one minute, of simulated pool-fire exposure.

b. A thermal protection system must be tested in the simulated pool-fire environment described in paragraph 2a of this appendix in the following manner:

(1) The thermal protection system must cover one side of a bare plate as described in paragraph 2a(2) of this appendix.

(2) The non-protected side of the bare plate must be instrumented with not less than nine thermocouples placed as described in paragraph 2a(2) of this appendix to record the thermal response of the plate.

(3) Before exposure to the pool-fire simulation, none of the thermocouples on the thermal protection system configuration may indicate a plate temperature in excess of 37.8 &#xB0;C (100 &#xB0;F) nor less than 0 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F).

(4) The entire surface of the thermal protection system must be exposed to the simulated pool fire.

(5) A pool-fire simulation test must run for a minimum of 100 minutes. The thermal protection system must retard the heat flow to the plate so that none of the thermocouples on the non-protected side of the plate indicate a plate temperature in excess of 427 &#xB0;C (800 &#xB0;F).

(6) A minimum of three consecutive successful simulation fire tests must be performed for each thermal protection system.
