
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### § 180.205 General requirements for requalification of specification cylinders.
######## Periodic requalification of cylinders.

(c)Each cylinder bearing a DOT, CRC, BTC, or CTC specification marking must be requalified and marked as specified in the requalification table in § 180.209(a) or requalified and marked by a facility registered by Transport Canada in accordance with the Transport Canada TDG Regulations (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Each cylinder bearing both a TC specification marking and also marked with a corresponding DOT specification marking must be requalified and marked as specified in the requalification table in § 180.209(a) or requalified and marked by a facility registered by Transport Canada in accordance with the Transport Canada TDG Regulations. Each cylinder bearing a DOT special permit (or exemption) number must be requalified and marked in conformance with this section and the terms of the applicable special permit (or exemption). Each cylinder bearing only a TC mark must be requalified and marked as specified in the Transport Canada TDG Regulations, except that registration with Transport Canada is not required and cylinders must be marked with the requalifier's DOT issued requalifier identification number. No cylinder may be filled with a hazardous material and offered for transportation in commerce unless that cylinder has been successfully requalified and marked in accordance with this subpart. A cylinder may be requalified at any time during or before the month and year that the requalification is due. However, a cylinder filled before the requalification becomes due may remain in service until it is emptied. A cylinder with a specified service life may not be refilled and offered for transportation after its authorized service life has expired.

(1) Each cylinder that is requalified in accordance with the requirements specified in this section must be marked in accordance with § 180.213 or the requirements of the Transport Canada TDG Regulations, or in the case of a TC cylinder requalified in the United States by a DOT RIN holder, in accordance with the requirements of the Transport Canada TDG Regulations except that registration with Transport Canada is not required and cylinders must be marked with the requalifiers DOT issued requalifier identification number.

(2) Each cylinder that fails requalification must be:

(i) Rejected and may be repaired or rebuilt in accordance with § 180.211 or § 180.212, as appropriate; or

(ii) Condemned in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.

(3) For DOT specification cylinders, the marked service pressure may be changed upon approval of the Associate Administrator and in accordance with written procedures specified in the approval.

(4) For a specification 3, 3A, 3AA, 3AL, 3AX, 3AAX, 3B, 3BN, or 3T cylinder filled with gases in other than Division 2.2, from the first requalification due on or after December 31, 2003, the burst pressure of a CG-1, CG-4, or CG-5 pressure relief device must be at test pressure with a tolerance of plus zero to minus 10%. An additional 5% tolerance is allowed when a combined rupture disc is placed inside a holder. This requirement does not apply if a CG-2, CG-3 or CG-9 thermally activated relief device or a CG-7 reclosing pressure valve is used on the cylinder.
