
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### ยง 180.205 General requirements for requalification of specification cylinders.
######## Pressure test.

(g)(1) Unless otherwise provided, each cylinder required to be retested under this subpart must be retested by means suitable for measuring the expansion of the cylinder under pressure. Testing must be performed in accordance with CGA C-1 (except for paragraph 5.3.2.2, if the required accuracy of the pressure indicating device can be demonstrated by other recognized means such as calibration certificates) (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter).

(2) The pressure indicating device and expansion indicating device must meet the resolution requirements of CGA C-1. Midpoint visual interpolation is allowed.

(3) Each day before retesting, the retester shall confirm, by using a calibrated cylinder or other method authorized in writing by the Associate Administrator, that:

(i) The pressure-indicating device, as part of the retest apparatus, is accurate within +/-1.0% of the prescribed test pressure of any cylinder tested that day. The pressure indicating device, itself, must be certified as having an accuracy of +/-0.5%, or better, of its full range, and must permit readings of pressure from 90%-110% of the minimum prescribed test pressure of the cylinder to be tested. The accuracy of the pressure indicating device within the test system can be demonstrated at any point within 500 psig of the actual test pressure for test pressures at or above 3000 psig, or 10% of the actual test pressure for test pressures below 3000 psig.

(ii) The expansion-indicating device, as part of the retest apparatus, meets the accuracy requirements of CGA C-1.

(4) Test equipment must be verified each day before retesting as required in CGA C-1.

(i) The retester must demonstrate calibration in conformance with this paragraph (g) to an authorized inspector on any day that it retests cylinders.

(ii) A retester must maintain calibrated cylinder certificates in conformance with ยง 180.215(b)(4).

(5) A system check may be performed at or below 90% of test pressure prior to the retest. In the case of a malfunction of the test equipment or operator error, the test may be repeated in accordance with CGA C-1, section 5.7.1. This paragraph (g) does not authorize retest of a cylinder otherwise required to be condemned under paragraph (i) of this section.
