
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### ยง 180.205 General requirements for requalification of specification cylinders.
######## Cylinder condemnation.

(i)(1) A cylinder must be condemned when-

(i) The cylinder meets a condition for condemnation under the visual inspection requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) The cylinder leaks through its wall.

(iii) Evidence of cracking exists to the extent that the cylinder is likely to be weakened appreciably.

(iv) For a DOT specification cylinder, other than a DOT 4E aluminum cylinder or a special permit cylinder, permanent expansion exceeds 10 percent of total expansion.

(v) For a DOT 3HT cylinder-

(A) The pressure test yields an elastic expansion exceeding the marked rejection elastic expansion (REE) value.

(B) The cylinder shows evidence of denting or bulging.

(C) The cylinder bears a manufacture or an original test date older than twenty-four years or after 4380 pressurizations, whichever occurs first. If a cylinder is refilled, on average, more than once every other day, an accurate record of the number of rechargings must be maintained by the cylinder owner or the owner's agent.

(vi) For a DOT 4E aluminum cylinder, permanent expansion exceeds 12 percent of total expansion.

(vii) For a DOT special permit cylinder, permanent expansion exceeds the limit in the applicable special permit, or the cylinder meets another criterion for condemnation in the applicable special permit.

(viii) For an aluminum or an aluminum-lined composite special permit cylinder, the cylinder is known to have been or shows evidence of having been overheated. Arc burns must be considered evidence of overheating.

(ix) The cylinder is known to have been or shows evidence of having been over-pressurized.

(x) For a cylinder with a specified service life, its authorized service life has expired.

(xi) The cylinder has been stamped on the sidewall, except as provided in part 178 of this subchapter.

(2) When a cylinder must be condemned, the requalifier must-

(i) Communicate condemnation of the cylinder as follows:

(A) Stamp a series of Xs over the DOT-specification number and the marked pressure or stamp "CONDEMNED" on the shoulder, top head, or neck using a steel stamp;

(B) For composite cylinders, securely affix to the cylinder a label with the word "CONDEMNED" overcoated with epoxy near, but not obscuring, the original cylinder manufacturer's label; or

(C) As an alternative to the stamping or labeling as described in this paragraph (i)(2), at the direction of the owner, the requalifier may render the cylinder incapable of holding pressure; and

(ii) Notify the cylinder owner, in writing, that the cylinder is condemned and may not be filled with hazardous material and offered for transportation in commerce where use of a specification packaging is required.

(3) No person may remove, obliterate, or alter the required condemnation communication of paragraph (i)(2) of this section.
