
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Subpart D - Goals, Good Faith Efforts, and Counting
##### ยง 23.51 How are a recipient's overall goals expressed and calculated?
###### Step 2.

(d)Once you have calculated a base figure, you must examine all relevant evidence reasonably available in your jurisdiction to determine what adjustment, if any, is needed to the base figure in order to arrive at your overall goal.

(1) There are many types of evidence that must be considered when adjusting the base figure. These include, but are not limited to:

(i) The current capacity of ACDBEs to perform work in your concessions program, as measured by the volume of work ACDBEs have performed in recent years; and

(ii) Evidence from disparity studies conducted anywhere within your jurisdiction, to the extent it is not already accounted for in your base figure.

(2) If your base figure is the goal of another recipient, you must adjust it for differences in your market area and your concessions program.

(3) If available, you must consider evidence from related fields that affect the opportunities for ACDBEs to form, grow and compete. These include, but are not limited to:

(i) Statistical disparities in the ability of ACDBEs to get the financing, bonding and insurance required to participate in your program;

(ii) Data on employment, self-employment, education, training and union apprenticeship programs, to the extent you can relate it to the opportunities for ACDBEs to perform in your program.

(4) If you attempt to make an adjustment to your base figure to account for the continuing effects of past discrimination, or the effects of an ongoing ACDBE program, the adjustment must be based on demonstrable evidence that is logically and directly related to the effect for which the adjustment is sought.
