
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### ยง 180.209 Requirements for requalification of specification cylinders.
######## see

(ii) The cylinder is used exclusively for air; argon; cyclopropane; ethylene; helium; hydrogen; krypton; neon; nitrogen; nitrous oxide; oxygen; sulfur hexafluoride; xenon; chlorinated hydrocarbons, fluorinated hydrocarbons, liquefied hydrocarbons, and mixtures thereof that are commercially free from corroding components; permitted mixtures of these gases (ยง 173.301(d) of this subchapter); and permitted mixtures of these gases with up to 30 percent by volume of carbon dioxide, provided the gas has a dew point at or below minus (52 &#xB0;F) at 1 atmosphere.

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) The cylinder is dried immediately after hydrostatic testing to remove all traces of water.

(v) The cylinder is not used for underwater breathing.

(vi) Each cylinder is stamped with a five-pointed star at least one-fourth of an inch high immediately following the test date.

(2) If, since the last required requalification, a cylinder has not been used exclusively for the gases specifically identified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, but currently conforms with all other provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, it may be requalified every 10 years instead of every five years, provided it is first requalified and examined as prescribed by ยง 173.302a(b) (2), (3) and (4) of this subchapter.

(3) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if a cylinder, marked with a star, is filled with a compressed gas other than as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the star following the most recent test date must be obliterated. The cylinder must be requalified five years from the marked test date, or prior to the first filling with a compressed gas, if the required five-year requalification period has passed.
