
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### ยง 180.209 Requirements for requalification of specification cylinders.
######## Cylinder used as a fire extinguisher.

(j)Only a DOT-specification cylinder used as a fire extinguisher in conformance with ยง 173.309(a) of this subchapter may be requalified in conformance with this paragraph (j). The testing procedures, calibration of the testing equipment, accuracy of the pressure indicating device, accuracy of the testing equipment must be as prescribed in CGA C-1.

(1) A DOT 4B, 4BA, 4B240ET or 4BW cylinder used as a fire extinguisher may be tested as follows:

(i) For a cylinder with a water capacity of 5.44 kg (12 pounds) or less, by the water-jacket, direct expansion or proof pressure test methods as prescribed in CGA C-1. A requalification must be performed by the end of 12 years after the original test date and at 12-year intervals thereafter.

(A) Each cylinder must be tested to a minimum of two (2) times service pressure.

(B) When testing using the water-jacket or direct expansion test method, the permanent volumetric expansion may not exceed 10 percent of total volumetric expansion at test pressure.

(C) When testing using the proof pressure test method, the cylinder must be carefully examined under test pressure and removed from service if a leak or defect is found.

(ii) For a cylinder having a water capacity over 5.44 kg (12 pounds), by the water-jacket, direct expansion or proof pressure test methods as prescribed in CGA C-1. For the water-jacket or direct expansion test, the requalification must be performed by the end of 12 years after the original test date and at 12-year intervals theafter. For the proof-pressure test, a requalification must be performed by the end of 12 years after the original test date and at seven (7) year intervals.

(A) Each cylinder must be tested to a minimum of two (2) times service pressure.

(B) When testing using the water-jacket or direct expansion test method, the permanent volumetric expansion may not exceed 10 percent of total volumetric expansion at test pressure.

(C) When testing using the proof pressure test method, the cylinder must be carefully examined under test pressure and removed from service if a leak or defect is found.

(2) A DOT 3A, 3AA, or 3AL cylinder must be requalified by:

(i) The water-jacket or direct expansion method. A requalification must be performed 12 years after the original test date and at 12-year intervals thereafter.

(ii) Each cylinder must be tested to a minimum oftimes service pressure.

(iii) When testing using the water-jacket or direct expansion test method, the permanent volumetric expansion may not exceed 10 percent of total volumetric expansion at test pressure.
