
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### ยง 180.211 Repair, rebuilding and reheat treatment of DOT-4 series specification cylinders.
######## General repair requirements.

(b)Each repair of a DOT 4-series cylinder must be made in accordance with the following conditions:

(1) The repair and the inspection of the work performed must be made in accordance with the requirements of the cylinder specification.

(2) The person performing the repair must use the procedure, equipment, and filler metal or brazing material as authorized by the approval issued under ยง 107.805 of this chapter.

(3) Welding and brazing must be performed on an area free from contaminants.

(4) A weld defect, such as porosity in a pressure retaining seam, must be completely removed before re-welding. Puddling may be used to remove a weld defect only by the tungsten inert gas shielded arc process.

(5) After removal of a non-pressure attachment and before its replacement, the cylinder must be given a visual inspection in accordance with ยง 180.205(f).

(6) Reheat treatment of DOT 4B, 4BA or 4BW specification cylinders after replacement of non-pressure attachments is not required when the total weld material does not exceed 20.3 cm (8 inches). Individual welds must be at least 7.6 cm (3 inches) apart.

(7) After repair of a DOT 4B, 4BA or 4BW cylinder, the weld area must be leak tested at the service pressure of the cylinder.

(8) Repair of weld defects must be free of cracks.

(9) When a non-pressure attachment with the original cylinder specification markings is replaced, all markings must be transferred to the attachment on the repaired cylinder.

(10) Walls, heads or bottoms of cylinders with defects or leaks in base metal may not be repaired, but may be replaced as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section.
