
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### ยง 180.211 Repair, rebuilding and reheat treatment of DOT-4 series specification cylinders.
######## Additional repair requirements for 4L cylinders.

(c)(1) Repairs to a DOT 4L cylinder must be performed in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and are limited to the following:

(i) The removal of either end of the insulation jacket to permit access to the cylinder, piping system, or neck tube.

(ii) The replacement of the neck tube. At least a 13 mm (0.51 inch) piece of the original neck tube must be protruding above the cylinder's top end. The original weld attaching the neck tube to the cylinder must be sound and the replacement neck tube must be welded to this remaining piece of the original neck tube.

(iii) The replacement of material such as, but not limited to, the insulating material and the piping system within the insulation space is authorized. The replacement material must be equivalent to that used at the time of original manufacture.

(iv) Other welding procedures that are permitted by CGA Pamphlet C-3 (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter), and not excluded by the definition of "rebuild," are authorized.

(2) After repair, the cylinder must be-

(i) Pressure tested in accordance with the specifications under which the cylinder was originally manufactured;

(ii) Leak tested before and after assembly of the insulation jacket using a mass spectrometer detection system; and

(iii) Tested for heat conductivity requirements.
