
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### § 180.211 Repair, rebuilding and reheat treatment of DOT-4 series specification cylinders.
######## General rebuilding requirements.

(d)(1) The rebuilding of a DOT 4-series cylinder must be made in accordance with the following requirements:

(i) The person rebuilding the cylinder must use the procedures and equipment as authorized by the approval issued under § 107.805 of this chapter.

(ii) After removal of a non-pressure component and before replacement of any non-pressure component, the cylinder must be visually inspected in accordance with CGA Pamphlet C-6 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(iii) The rebuilder may rebuild a DOT 4B, 4BA or 4BW cylinder having a water capacity of 9.07 kg (20 lb) or greater by replacing a head of the cylinder using a circumferential joint. When this weld joint is located at other than an original welded joint, a notation of this modification must be shown on the Manufacturer's Report of Rebuilding in § 180.215(c)(2). The weld joint must be on the cylindrical section of the cylinder.

(iv) Any welding and the inspection of the rebuilt cylinder must be in accordance with the requirements of the applicable cylinder specification and the following requirements:

(A) Rebuilding of any cylinder involving a joint subject to internal pressure may only be performed by fusion welding;

(B) Welding must be performed on an area free from contaminants; and

(C) A weld defect, such as porosity in a pressure retaining seam, must be completely removed before re-welding. Puddling may be used to remove a weld defect only by using the tungsten inert gas shielded arc process.

(2) Any rebuilt cylinder must be-

(i) Heat treated in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section;

(ii) Subjected to a volumetric expansion test on each cylinder. The results of the tests must conform to the applicable cylinder specification;

(iii) Inspected and have test data reviewed to determine conformance with the applicable cylinder specification; and

(iv) Made of material conforming to the specification. Determination of conformance shall include chemical analysis, verification, inspection and tensile testing of the replaced part. Tensile tests must be performed on the replaced part after heat treatment by lots defined in the applicable specification.

(3) For each rebuilt cylinder, an inspector's report must be prepared to include the information listed in § 180.215(c).

(4) Rebuilding a cylinder with brazed seams is prohibited.

(5) When an end with the original cylinder specification markings is replaced, all markings must be transferred to the rebuilt cylinder.
