
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### § 180.212 Repair of seamless DOT 3-series specification cylinders and seamless UN pressure receptacles.
######## General requirements for repair of DOT 3-series cylinders and UN pressure receptacles.

(a)(1) No person may repair a DOT 3-series cylinder or a seamless UN pressure receptacle unless-

(i) The repair facility holds an approval issued under the provisions in § 107.805 of this chapter; and

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the repair and the inspection is performed under the provisions of an approval issued under subpart H of part 107 of this chapter or by a facility registered by Transport Canada in accordance with the Transport Canada TDG Regulations (IBR; see § 171.7 of this subchapter) and conform to the applicable cylinder specification or ISO standard contained in part 178 of this subchapter.

(2) The person performing the repair must prepare a report containing, at a minimum, the results prescribed in § 180.215.

(3) If grinding is performed on a DOT 3-series cylinder or a seamless UN pressure receptacle, the following conditions apply after grinding has been completed. Grinding must not be used to remove arc burns from a cylinder, as such a cylinder must be condemned:

(i) Ultrasonic examination must be conducted to ensure that the wall thickness is not less than the minimum design requirement. The wall thickness must be measured in at least 3 different areas for every 10 square inches of grinding area.

(ii) The cylinder must be requalified in conformance with § 180.205.

(iii) The cylinder must be marked in accordance with § 180.213(f)(10) to indicate compliance with this paragraph (a)(3).
