
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### ยง 180.212 Repair of seamless DOT 3-series specification cylinders and seamless UN pressure receptacles.
######## Repairs not requiring prior approval.

(b)Approval is not required for the following specific repairs:

(1) The removal and replacement of a neck ring or foot ring on a DOT 3A, 3AA or 3B cylinder or a UN pressure receptacle that does not affect a pressure part of the cylinder when the repair is performed by a repair facility or a cylinder manufacturer of these types of cylinders. The repair may be made by welding or brazing in conformance with the original specification. After removal and before replacement, the cylinder must be visually inspected and any defective cylinder must be rejected. The heat treatment, testing and inspection of the repair must be performed under the supervision of an inspector and must be performed in accordance with the original specification.

(2) External re-threading of DOT 3AX, 3AAX or 3T specification cylinders or a UN pressure receptacle mounted in a MEGC; or the internal re-threading of a DOT-3 series cylinder or a seamless UN pressure receptacle when performed by a cylinder manufacturer of these types of cylinders. The repair work must be performed under the supervision of an independent inspection agency. Upon completion of the re-threading, the threads must be gauged in accordance with Federal Standard H-28 or an equivalent standard containing the same specification limits. The re-threaded cylinder must be stamped clearly and legibly with the words "RETHREAD" on the shoulder, top head, or neck. No DOT specification cylinder or UN cylinder may be re-threaded more than one time without approval of the Associate Administrator.
