
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### ยง 180.213 Requalification markings.
######## Placement of markings.

(b)Each cylinder must be plainly and permanently marked on the metal of the cylinder as permitted by the applicable specification. Unless authorized by the cylinder specification, marking on the cylinder sidewall is prohibited.

(1) Requalification and required specification markings must be legible so as to be readily visible at all times. Illegible specification markings may be remarked on the cylinder as provided by the original specification. Requalification markings may be placed on any portion of the upper end of the cylinder excluding the sidewall, as provided in this section. Requalification and required specification markings that are illegible may be reproduced on a metal plate and attached as provided by the original specification.

(2) Previous requalification markings may not be obliterated, except that, when the space originally provided for requalification dates becomes filled, additional dates may be added as follows:

(i) All preceding requalification dates may be removed by peening provided that-

(A) Permission is obtained from the cylinder owner;

(B) The minimum wall thickness is maintained in accordance with manufacturing specifications for the cylinder; and

(C) The original manufacturing test date is not removed.

(ii) When the cylinder is fitted with a footring, additional dates may be marked on the external surface of the footring.
