
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart C - Qualification, Maintenance and Use of Cylinders
####### § 180.213 Requalification markings.
######## Marking illustrations.

(f)Examples of required requalification markings for DOT specification and special permit cylinders are illustrated as follows:

(1) For designation of the 5-year volumetric expansion test, 10-year volumetric expansion test for UN cylinders and cylinders conforming to § 180.209(f) and (h), or 12-year volumetric expansion test for fire extinguishers conforming to § 173.309(a) of this subchapter and cylinders conforming to § 180.209(e) and (g), the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) For designation of the 10-year volumetric expansion test for cylinders conforming to § 180.209(b), the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the "X" is replaced with a five-point star.

(3) For designation of special filling limits up to 10% in excess of the marked service pressure for cylinders conforming to § 173.302a(b) of this subchapter, the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the "X" is replaced with a plus sign " + ".

(4) For designation of the proof pressure test, the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the "X" is replaced with the letter "S".

(5) For designation of the 5-year external visual inspection for cylinders conforming to § 180.209(g), the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the "X" is replaced with the letter "E".

(6) For designation of DOT 8 series cylinder shell requalification only, the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the "X" is replaced with the letter "S".

(7) For designation of DOT 8 series and UN cylinder shell and porous filler requalification, the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the "X" is replaced with the letters "FS."

(8) For designation of a nondestructive examination combined with a visual inspection, the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the "X" is replaced with the type of test performed, for example the letters "AE" for acoustic emission or "UE" for ultrasonic examination.

(9) For designation of the eddy current examination combined with a visual inspection, the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except the "X" is replaced with the letters "VE."

(10) For designation of grinding with ultrasonic wall thickness examination, the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except the "X" is replaced with the letter "R".

(11) For designation of requalification of a foreign cylinder requalified in conformance with §§ 171.23(a)(5) of this subchapter and 180.209(l), the marking is as illustrated in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the "X" is replaced with the letters "EX" to indicate that the cylinder is for export only.
