
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Subpart D - Goals, Good Faith Efforts, and Counting
##### ยง 23.53 How do car rental companies count ACDBE participation toward their goals?

(a) As a car rental company, you may, in meeting the goal the airport has set for you, include purchases or leases of vehicles from any vendor that is a certified ACDBE.

(b) As a car rental company, if you choose to meet the goal the airport has set for you by including purchases or leases of vehicles from an ACDBE vendor, you must also submit to the recipient documentation of the good faith efforts you have made to obtain ACDBE participation from other ACDBE providers of goods and services.

(c) While this part does not require you to obtain ACDBE participation through direct ownership arrangements, you may count such participation toward the goal the airport has set for you.

(d) The following special rules apply to counting participation related to car rental operations:

(1) Count the entire amount of the cost charged by an ACDBE for repairing vehicles, provided that it is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services.

(2) Count the entire amount of the fee or commission charged by a ACDBE to manage a car rental concession under an agreement with the concessionaire toward ACDBE goals, provided that it is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services.

(3) Do not count any portion of a fee paid by a manufacturer to a car dealership for reimbursement of work performed under the manufacturer's warranty.

(e) For other goods and services, count participation toward ACDBE goals as provided in part 26, ยง 26.55 and ยง 23.55 of this part. In the event of any conflict between these two sections, ยง 23.55 controls.

(f) If you have a national or regional contract, count a pro-rated share of the amount of that contract toward the goals of each airport covered by the contract. Use the proportion of your applicable gross receipts as the basis for making this pro-rated assignment of ACDBE participation.
