
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart D - Qualification and Maintenance of IBCs
####### ยง 180.352 Requirements for retest and inspection of IBCs.
######## Test and inspections for metal, rigid plastic, and composite IBCs.

(b)Each IBC is subject to the following test and inspections:

(1) Each IBC intended to contain solids that are loaded or discharged under pressure or intended to contain liquids must be tested in accordance with the leakproofness test prescribed in ยง 178.813 of this subchapter prior to its first use in transportation and every 2.5 years thereafter, starting from the date of manufacture or the date of a repair conforming to paragraph (d)(1) of this section. For this test, the IBC is not required to have its closures fitted.

(2) An external visual inspection must be conducted initially after production and every 2.5 years starting from the date of manufacture or the date of a repair conforming to paragraph (d)(1) of this section to ensure that:

(i) The IBC is marked in accordance with requirements in ยง 178.703 of this subchapter. Missing or damaged markings, or markings difficult to read must be restored or returned to original condition.

(ii) Service equipment is fully functional and free from damage which may cause failure. Missing, broken, or damaged parts must be repaired or replaced.

(iii) The IBC is capable of withstanding the applicable design qualification tests. The IBC must be externally inspected for cracks, warpage, corrosion or any other damage which might render the IBC unsafe for transportation. An IBC found with such defects must be removed from service or repaired in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The inner receptacle of a composite IBC must be removed from the outer IBC body for inspection unless the inner receptacle is bonded to the outer body or unless the outer body is constructed in such a way (e.g., a welded or riveted cage) that removal of the inner receptacle is not possible without impairing the integrity of the outer body. Defective inner receptacles must be replaced in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section or the entire IBC must be removed from service. For metal IBCs, thermal insulation must be removed to the extent necessary for proper examination of the IBC body.

(3) Each metal, rigid plastic and composite IBC must be internally inspected at least every five years to ensure that the IBC is free from damage and to ensure that the IBC is capable of withstanding the applicable design qualification tests.

(i) The IBC must be internally inspected for cracks, warpage, and corrosion or any other defect that might render the IBC unsafe for transportation. An IBC found with such defects must be removed from hazardous materials service until restored to the original design type of the IBC.

(ii) Metal IBCs must be inspected to ensure the minimum wall thickness requirements in ยง 178.705(c)(1)(iv) of this subchapter are met. Metal IBCs not conforming to minimum wall thickness requirements must be removed from hazardous materials service.
