
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart D - Qualification and Maintenance of IBCs
####### ยง 180.352 Requirements for retest and inspection of IBCs.
######## Visual inspection for flexible, fiberboard, or wooden IBCs.

(c)Each IBC must be visually inspected prior to first use and permitted reuse, by the person who places hazardous materials in the IBC, to ensure that:

(1) The IBC is marked in accordance with requirements in ยง 178.703 of this subchapter. Additional marking allowed for each design type may be present. Required markings that are missing, damaged or difficult to read must be restored or returned to original condition.

(2) Proper construction and design specifications have been met.

(i) Each flexible IBC must be inspected to ensure that:

(A) Lifting straps if used, are securely fastened to the IBC in accordance with the design type.

(B) Seams are free from defects in stitching, heat sealing or gluing which would render the IBC unsafe for transportation of hazardous materials. All stitched seam-ends must be secure.

(C) Fabric used to construct the IBC is free from cuts, tears and punctures. Additionally, fabric must be free from scoring which may render the IBC unsafe for transport.

(ii) Each fiberboard IBC must be inspected to ensure that:

(A) Fluting or corrugated fiberboard is firmly glued to facings.

(B) Seams are creased and free from scoring, cuts, and scratches.

(C) Joints are appropriately overlapped and glued, stitched, taped or stapled as prescribed by the design. Where staples are used, the joints must be inspected for protruding staple-ends which could puncture or abrade the inner liner. All such ends must be protected before the IBC is authorized for hazardous materials service.

(iii) Each wooden IBC must be inspected to ensure that:

(A) End joints are secured in the manner prescribed by the design.

(B) IBC walls are free from defects in wood. Inner protrusions which could puncture or abrade the liner must be covered.
