
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Subpart D - Goals, Good Faith Efforts, and Counting
##### ยง 23.55 How do recipients count ACDBE participation toward goals for items other than car rentals?
###### bona fide

(e) Count the entire amount of fees or commissions charged by an ACDBE firm for aservice, provided that, as the recipient, you determine this amount to be reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services. Such services may include, but are not limited to, professional, technical, consultant, legal, security systems, advertising, building cleaning and maintenance, computer programming, or managerial.

(f) Count 100 percent of the cost of goods obtained from an ACDBE manufacturer. For purposes of this part, the term manufacturer has the same meaning as in part 26, ยง 26.55(e)(1)(ii).

(g) Count 100 percent of the cost of goods purchased or leased from a ACDBE regular dealer. For purposes of this part, the term "regular dealer" has the same meaning as in part 26, ยง 26.55(e)(2)(ii).

(h) Count credit toward ACDBE goals for goods purchased from an ACDBE which is neither a manufacturer nor a regular dealer as follows:

(1) Count the entire amount of fees or commissions charged for assistance in the procurement of the goods, provided that this amount is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services. Do not count any portion of the cost of the goods themselves.

(2) Count the entire amount of fees or transportation charges for the delivery of goods required for a concession, provided that this amount is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar services. Do not count any portion of the cost of goods themselves.

(i) If a firm has not been certified as an ACDBE in accordance with the standards in this part, do not count the firm's participation toward ACDBE goals.

(j) Do not count the work performed or gross receipts earned by a firm after its eligibility has been removed toward ACDBE goals. However, if an ACDBE firm certified on April 21, 2005 is decertified because one or more of its disadvantaged owners do not meet the personal net worth criterion or the firm exceeds business size standards of this part during the performance of a contract or other agreement, the firm's participation may continue to be counted toward ACDBE goals for the remainder of the term of the contract or other agreement (but not extensions or renewals of such contracts or agreements).

(k) Do not count costs incurred in connection with the renovation, repair, or construction of a concession facility (sometimes referred to as the "build-out").

(l) Do not count the ACDBE participation of car rental companies toward your ACDBE achievements toward this goal.
