
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.405 Qualification of cargo tanks.
######## MC 338 cargo tank.

(d)The owner of a cargo tank that conforms to and was used under the terms of an exemption issued before October 1, 1984, that authorizes the transportation of a cryogenic liquid shall remove the exemption number stenciled on the cargo tank and stamp the specification plate (or a plate placed adjacent to the specification plate) "DOT MC 338" followed by the exemption number, for example, "DOT MC 338-E * * * *". (Asterisks to be replaced by the exemption number). The cargo tank must be remarked prior to the expiration date of the exemption. During the period the cargo tank is in service, the owner of a cargo tank that is remarked in this manner must retain at its principal place of business a copy of the last exemption in effect. No new construction of cargo tanks pursuant to such exemption is authorized.

(1) The holding time must be determined, as required in ยง 178.338-9 of this subchapter, on each cargo tank or on at least one cargo tank of each design. Any subsequent cargo tank manufactured to the same design type (see ยง 178.320), if not individually tested, must have the optional test regimen performed during the first shipment (see ยง 178.338-9 (b) and (c) of this subchapter).

(2) The holding time determined by test for one authorized cryogenic liquid may be used as the basis for establishing the holding time for other authorized cryogenic liquids.
