
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### § 180.405 Qualification of cargo tanks.
######## Cargo tank manhole assemblies.

(g)(1) MC 306, MC 307, and MC 312 cargo tanks marked or certified after December 30, 1990, and DOT 406, DOT 407, and DOT 412 cargo tank motor vehicles must be equipped with manhole assemblies conforming with § 178.345-5 of this subchapter.

(2) On or before August 31, 1995, each owner of a cargo tank marked or certified before December 31, 1990, authorized for the transportation of a hazardous material, must have the cargo tank equipped with manhole assemblies conforming with § 178.345-5, except for the dimensional requirements in § 178.345-5(a), the hydrostatic testing requirements in § 178.345-5(b), and the marking requirements in § 178.345-5(e) of this subchapter. A manhole assembly meeting one of the following provisions is considered to be in compliance with this paragraph:

(i) Manhole assemblies on MC 300, MC 301, MC 302, MC 303, MC 305, MC 306, MC 310, MC 311, and MC 312 cargo tanks that are marked or certified in writing as conforming to § 178.345-5 of this subchapter or TTMA RP No. 61-98 (incorporated by reference; see § 171.7 of this subchapter), or are tested and certified in accordance with TTMA TB No. 107 (incorporated by reference; see § 171.7 of this subchapter).

(ii) Manhole assemblies on MC 304 and MC 307 cargo tanks.

(iii) Manhole assemblies on MC 310, MC 311, and MC 312 cargo tanks with a test pressure of 36 psig or greater.

(3) [Reserved]
