
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.405 Qualification of cargo tanks.
######## Pressure relief system.

(h)Properly functioning reclosing pressure relief valves and frangible or fusible vents need not be replaced. However, replacement of reclosing pressure relief valves on MC-specification cargo tanks is authorized subject to the following requirements:

(1) Until August 31, 1998, the owner of a cargo tank may replace a reclosing pressure relief device with a device which is in compliance with the requirements for pressure relief devices in effect at the time the cargo tank specification became superseded. If the pressure relief device is installed as an integral part of a manhole cover assembly, the manhole cover must comply with the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section.

(2) After August 31, 1998, replacement for any reclosing pressure relief valve must be capable of reseating to a leak-tight condition after a pressure surge, and the volume of lading released may not exceed 1 L. Specific performance requirements for these pressure relief valves are set forth in ยง 178.345-10(b)(3) of this subchapter.

(3) As provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the owner of a cargo tank may elect to modify reclosing pressure relief devices to more recent cargo tank specifications. However, replacement devices constructed to the requirements of ยง 178.345-10 of this subchapter must provide the minimum venting capacity required by the original specification to which the cargo tank was designed and constructed.
