
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### § 180.405 Qualification of cargo tanks.
######## MC 300, MC 301, MC 302, MC 303, MC 305, MC 306 cargo tank-Rear accident damage protection.

(l)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements in § 180.405(b), the applicable specification requirement for a rear bumper or rear-end tank protection device on MC 300, MC 301, MC 302, MC 303, MC 305, and MC 306 cargo tanks does not apply to a cargo tank truck (power unit) until July 1, 1992, if the cargo tank truck-

(i) Was manufactured before July 1, 1989;

(ii) Is used to transport gasoline or any other petroleum distillate product; and

(iii) Is operated in combination with a cargo tank full trailer. However, an empty cargo tank truck, without a cargo tank full trailer attached, may be operated without the required rear bumper or rear-end tank protection device on a one-time basis while being transported to a repair facility for installation of a rear bumper or rear-end protection device.

(2) Each cargo tank shall be provided with a rear accident damage protection device to protect the tank and piping in the event of a rear-end collision and reduce the likelihood of damage which could result in the loss of lading. The rear-end protection device must be in the form of a rear-end tank protection device meeting the requirements of § 178.345-8(d) or a rear bumper meeting the following:

(i) The bumper shall be located at least 6 inches to the rear of any vehicle component used for loading or unloading or that may contain lading while the vehicle is in transit.

(ii) The dimensions of the bumper shall conform to § 393.86 of this title.

(iii) The structure of the bumper must be designed in accordance with § 178.345-8(d)(3) of this subchapter.
