
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### § 180.405 Qualification of cargo tanks.
######## Specification MC 330, MC 331 cargo tank motor vehicles, and nonspecification cargo tank motor vehicles conforming to § 173.315(k) of this subchapter, intended for use in the transportation of liquefied compressed gases.

(m)(1) No later than the date of its first scheduled pressure test after July 1, 2001, each specification MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tank motor vehicle, and each nonspecification cargo tank motor vehicle conforming to § 173.315(k) of this subchapter, marked and certified before July 1, 2001, that is used to transport a Division 2.1 material, a Division 2.2 material with a subsidiary hazard, a Division 2.3 material, or anhydrous ammonia must have an emergency discharge control capability as specified in § 173.315(n) of this subchapter. Each passive shut-off system installed prior to July 1, 2001, must be certified by a Design Certifying Engineer that it meets the requirements of § 173.315(n)(2) of this subchapter.

(2) The requirement in paragraph (m)(1) of this section does not apply to a cargo tank equal to or less than 13,247.5 L (3,500 gallons) water capacity transporting in metered delivery service a Division 2.1 material, a Division 2.2 material with a subsidiary hazard, or anhydrous ammonia equipped with an off-truck remote shut-off device that was installed prior to July 1, 2000. The device must be capable of stopping the transfer of lading by operation of a transmitter carried by a qualified person attending unloading of the cargo tank. The device is subject to the requirement in § 177.840(o) of this subchapter for a daily test at 45.72 meters (150 feet).

(3) Each specification MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tank in metered delivery service of greater than 13,247.5 L (3,500 gallons) water capacity transporting a Division 2.1 material, a Division 2.2 material with a subsidiary hazard, or anhydrous ammonia, marked and certified before July 1, 1999, must have an emergency discharge control capability as specified in §§ 173.315(n) and 177.840 of this subchapter no later than the date of its first scheduled pressure test after July 1, 2001, or July 1, 2003, whichever is earlier.
