
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### § 180.407 Requirements for test and inspection of specification cargo tanks.
######## General.

(a)(1) A cargo tank constructed in accordance with a DOT specification for which a test or inspection specified in this section has become due, may not be filled and offered for transportation or transported until the test or inspection has been successfully completed. This paragraph does not apply to any cargo tank filled prior to the test or inspection due date.

(2) Except during a pressure test, a cargo tank may not be subjected to a pressure greater than its design pressure or MAWP.

(3) A person witnessing or performing a test or inspection specified in this section must meet the minimum qualifications prescribed in § 180.409.

(4) Each cargo tank must be evaluated in accordance with the acceptable results of tests and inspections prescribed in § 180.411.

(5) Each cargo tank which has successfully passed a test or inspection specified in this section must be marked in accordance with § 180.415.

(6) A cargo tank which fails a prescribed test or inspection must:

(i) Be repaired and retested in accordance with § 180.413; or

(ii) Be removed from hazardous materials service and the specification plate removed, obliterated or covered in a secure manner.
