
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.407 Requirements for test and inspection of specification cargo tanks.
######## Lining inspection.

(f)The integrity of the lining on all lined cargo tanks, when lining is required by this subchapter, must be verified at least once each year as follows:

(1) Rubber (elastomeric) lining must be tested for holes as follows:

(i) Equipment must consist of:

(A) A high frequency spark tester capable of producing sufficient voltage to ensure proper calibration;

(B) A probe with an "L" shaped 2.4 mm (0.09 inch) diameter wire with up to a 30.5 cm (12-inch) bottom leg (end bent to a 12.7 mm (0.5 inch) radius), or equally sensitive probe; and

(C) A steel calibration coupon 30.5 cm x 30.5 cm (12 inches x 12 inches) covered with the same material and thickness as that to be tested. The material on the coupon shall have a test hole to the metal substrate made by puncturing the material with a 22 gauge hypodermic needle or comparable piercing tool.

(ii) The probe must be passed over the surface of the calibration coupon in a constant uninterrupted manner until the hole is found. The hole is detected by the white or light blue spark formed. (A sound lining causes a dark blue or purple spark.) The voltage must be adjusted to the lowest setting that will produce a minimum 12.7 mm (0.5 inch) spark measured from the top of the lining to the probe. To assure that the setting on the probe has not changed, the spark tester must be calibrated periodically using the test calibration coupon, and the same power source, probe, and cable length.

(iii) After calibration, the probe must be passed over the lining in an uninterrupted stroke.

(iv) Holes that are found must be repaired using equipment and procedures prescribed by the lining manufacturer or lining installer.

(2) Linings made of other than rubber (elastomeric material) must be tested using equipment and procedures prescribed by the lining manufacturer or lining installer.

(3) Degraded or defective areas of the cargo tank liner must be removed and the cargo tank wall below the defect must be inspected. Corroded areas of the tank wall must be thickness tested in accordance with paragraphs (i)(2), (i)(3), (i)(5) and (i)(6) of this section.

(4) The inspector must record the results of the lining inspection as specified in ยง 180.417(b).
