
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.407 Requirements for test and inspection of specification cargo tanks.
######## Test Procedure

(1)-(i) As part of the pressure test, the inspector must perform an external and internal visual inspection, except that on an MC 338 cargo tank, or a cargo tank not equipped with a manhole or inspection opening, an internal inspection is not required.

(ii) All self-closing pressure relief valves, including emergency relief vents and normal vents, must be removed from the cargo tank for inspection and testing according to the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section.

(iii) Except for cargo tanks carrying lading corrosive to the tank, areas covered by the upper coupler (fifth wheel) assembly must be inspected for corroded and abraded areas, dents, distortions, defects in welds, and any other condition that might render the tank unsafe for transportation service. The upper coupler (fifth wheel) assembly must be removed from the cargo tank for this inspection.

(iv) Each cargo tank must be tested hydrostatically or pneumatically to the internal pressure specified in the following table. At no time during the pressure test may a cargo tank be subject to pressures that exceed those identified in the following table:

(v) [Reserved]

(vi) Each cargo tank of a multi-tank cargo tank motor vehicle must be tested with the adjacent cargo tanks empty and at atmospheric pressure.

(vii) All closures except pressure relief devices must be in place during the test. All prescribed loading and unloading venting devices rated at less than test pressure may be removed during the test. If retained, the devices must be rendered inoperative by clamps, plugs, or other equally effective restraining devices. Restraining devices may not prevent detection of leaks or damage the venting devices and must be removed immediately after the test is completed.
