
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### § 180.407 Requirements for test and inspection of specification cargo tanks.
######## Pneumatic test method.

(ix)Pneumatic testing may involve higher risk than hydrostatic testing. Therefore, suitable safeguards must be provided to protect personnel and facilities should failure occur during the test. The cargo tank must be pressurized with air or an inert gas. The pneumatic test pressure in the cargo tank must be reached by gradually increasing the pressure to one-half of the test pressure. Thereafter, the pressure must be increased in steps of approximately one-tenth of the test pressure until the required test pressure has been reached. The test pressure must be held for at least 5 minutes. The pressure must then be reduced to the MAWP, which must be maintained during the time the entire cargo tank surface is inspected. During the inspection, a suitable method must be used for detecting the existence of leaks. This method must consist either of coating the entire surface of all joints under pressure with a solution of soap and water, or using other equally sensitive methods.

(2) When testing an insulated cargo tank, the insulation and jacketing need not be removed unless it is otherwise impossible to reach test pressure and maintain a condition of pressure equilibrium after test pressure is reached, or the vacuum integrity cannot be maintained in the insulation space. If an MC 338 cargo tank used for the transportation of a flammable gas or oxygen, refrigerated liquid is opened for any reason, the cleanliness must be verified prior to closure using the procedures contained in § 178.338-15 of this subchapter.

(3) Each MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tank constructed of quenched and tempered steel in accordance with Part UHT in Section VIII of the ASME Code (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), or constructed of other than quenched and tempered steel but without postweld heat treatment, used for the transportation of anhydrous ammonia or any other hazardous materials that may cause corrosion stress cracking, must be internally inspected by the wet fluorescent magnetic particle method immediately prior to and in conjunction with the performance of the pressure test prescribed in this section. Each MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tank constructed of quenched and tempered steel in accordance with Part UHT in Section VIII of the ASME Code and used for the transportation of liquefied petroleum gas must be internally inspected by the wet fluorescent magnetic particle method immediately prior to and in conjunction with the performance of the pressure test prescribed in this section. The wet fluorescent magnetic particle inspection must be in accordance with Section V of the ASME Code and CGA Technical Bulletin TB-2 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). This paragraph does not apply to cargo tanks that do not have manholes. (See § 180.417(c) for reporting requirements.)

(4) All pressure bearing portions of a cargo tank heating system employing a medium such as, but not limited to, steam or hot water for heating the lading must be hydrostatically pressure tested at least once every 5 years. The test pressure must be at least the maximum system design operating pressure and must be maintained for five minutes. A heating system employing flues for heating the lading must be tested to ensure against lading leakage into the flues or into the atmosphere.
