
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### § 180.407 Requirements for test and inspection of specification cargo tanks.
######## Leakage test.

(h)The following requirements apply to cargo tanks requiring a leakage test:

(1) Each cargo tank must be tested for leaks in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The leakage test must include testing product piping with all valves and accessories in place and operative, except that any venting devices set to discharge at less than the leakage test pressure must be removed or rendered inoperative during the test. All internal or external self-closing stop valves must be tested for leak tightness. Each cargo tank of a multi-cargo tank motor vehicle must be tested with adjacent cargo tanks empty and at atmospheric pressure. Test pressure must be maintained for at least 5 minutes. Cargo tanks in liquefied compressed gas service must be externally inspected for leaks during the leakage test. Suitable safeguards must be provided to protect personnel should a failure occur. Cargo tanks may be leakage tested with hazardous materials contained in the cargo tank during the test. Leakage test pressure must be no less than 80% of MAWP marked on the specification plate except as follows:

(i) A cargo tank with an MAWP of 690 kPa (100 psig) or more may be leakage tested at its maximum normal operating pressure provided it is in dedicated service or services; or

(ii) An MC 330 or MC 331 cargo tank in dedicated liquified petroleum gas service may be leakage tested at not less than 414 kPa (60 psig).

(iii) An operator of a specification MC 330 or MC 331 cargo tank, and a nonspecification cargo tank authorized under § 173.315(k) of this subchapter, equipped with a meter may check leak tightness of the internal self-closing stop valve by conducting a meter creep test. (See appendix B to this part.)

(iv) An MC 330 or MC 331 cargo tank in dedicated service for anhydrous ammonia may be leakage tested at not less than 414 kPa (60 psig).

(v) A non-specification cargo tank required by § 173.8(d) of this subchapter to be leakage tested, must be leakage tested at not less than 16.6 kPa (2.4 psig), or as specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(2) Cargo tanks used to transport petroleum distillate fuels that are equipped with vapor collection equipment may be leak tested in accordance with the Environmental Protection Agency's "Method 27-Determination of Vapor Tightness of Gasoline Delivery Tank Using Pressure-Vacuum Test," as set forth in Appendix A to 40 CFR part 60. Test methods and procedures and maximum allowable pressure and vacuum changes are in 40 CFR 63.425(e). The hydrostatic test alternative, using liquid in Environmental Protection Agency's "Method 27-Determination of Vapor Tightness of Gasoline Delivery Tank Using Pressure-Vacuum Test," may not be used to satisfy the leak testing requirements of this paragraph. The test must be conducted using air.

(3) A cargo tank that fails to retain leakage test pressure may not be returned to service as a specification cargo tank, except under conditions specified in § 180.411(d).

(4) After July 1, 2000, Registered Inspectors of specification MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tanks, and nonspecification cargo tanks authorized under § 173.315(k) of this subchapter must visually inspect the delivery hose assembly and piping system while the assembly is under leakage test pressure utilizing the rejection criteria listed in § 180.416(g). Delivery hose assemblies not permanently attached to the cargo tank motor vehicle may be inspected separately from the cargo tank motor vehicle. In addition to a written record of the inspection prepared in accordance with § 180.417(b), the Registered Inspector conducting the test must note the hose identification number, the date of the test, and the condition of the hose assembly and piping system tested.

(5) The inspector must record the results of the leakage test as specified in § 180.417(b).
