
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### § 180.407 Requirements for test and inspection of specification cargo tanks.
######## Thickness testing.

(i)(1) The shell and head thickness of all unlined cargo tanks used for the transportation of materials corrosive to the tank must be measured at least once every 2 years, except that cargo tanks measuring less than the sum of the minimum prescribed thickness, plus one-fifth of the original corrosion allowance, must be tested annually.

(2) Measurements must be made using a device capable of accurately measuring thickness to within +/-0.002 of an inch.

(3) Any person performing thickness testing must be trained in the proper use of the thickness testing device used in accordance with the manufacturer's instruction.

(4) Thickness testing must be performed in the following areas of the cargo tank wall, as a minimum:

(i) Areas of the tank shell and heads and shell and head area around any piping that retains lading;

(ii) Areas of high shell stress such as the bottom center of the tank;

(iii) Areas near openings;

(iv) Areas around weld joints;

(v) Areas around shell reinforcements;

(vi) Areas around appurtenance attachments;

(vii) Areas near upper coupler (fifth wheel) assembly attachments;

(viii) Areas near suspension system attachments and connecting structures;

(ix) Known thin areas in the tank shell and nominal liquid level lines; and

(x) Connecting structures joining multiple cargo tanks of carbon steel in a self-supporting cargo tank motor vehicle.

(5) Minimum thicknesses for MC 300, MC 301, MC 302, MC 303, MC 304, MC 305, MC 306, MC 307, MC 310, MC 311, and MC 312 cargo tanks are determined based on the definition of minimum thickness found in § 178.320(a) of this subchapter. The following Tables I and II identify the "In-Service Minimum Thickness" values to be used to determine the minimum thickness for the referenced cargo tanks. The column headed "Minimum Manufactured Thickness" indicates the minimum values required for new construction of DOT 400 series cargo tanks, found in Tables I and II of §§ 178.346-2, 178.347-2, and 178.348-2 of this subchapter. In-Service Minimum Thicknesses for MC 300, MC 301, MC 302, MC 303, MC 304, MC 305, MC 306, MC 307, MC 310, MC 311, and MC 312 cargo tanks are based on 90 percent of the manufactured thickness specified in the DOT specification, rounded to three places.

(6) An owner of a cargo tank that no longer conforms to the minimum thickness prescribed for the design as manufactured may use the cargo tank to transport authorized materials at reduced maximum weight of lading or reduced maximum working pressure, or combinations thereof, provided the following conditions are met:

(i) A Design Certifying Engineer must certify that the cargo tank design and thickness are appropriate for the reduced loading conditions by issuance of a revised manufacturer's certificate, and

(ii) The cargo tank motor vehicle's nameplate must reflect the revised service limits.

(7) An owner of a cargo tank that no longer conforms with the minimum thickness prescribed for the specification may not return the cargo tank to hazardous materials service. The tank's specification plate must be removed, obliterated or covered in a secure manner.

(8) The inspector must record the results of the thickness test as specified in § 180.417(b).

(9) For MC 331 cargo tanks constructed before October 1, 2003, minimum thickness shall be determined by the thickness indicated on the U1A form minus any corrosion allowance. For MC 331 cargo tanks constructed after October 1, 2003, the minimum thickness will be the value indicated on the specification plate. If no corrosion allowance is indicated on the U1A form then the thickness of the tank shall be the thickness of the material of construction indicated on the UIA form with no corrosion allowance.

(10) For 400-series cargo tanks, minimum thickness is calculated according to tables in each applicable section of this subchapter for that specification: § 178.346-2 for DOT 406 cargo tanks, § 178.347-2 for DOT 407 cargo tanks, and § 178.348-2 for DOT 412 cargo tanks.
