
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### § 180.407 Requirements for test and inspection of specification cargo tanks.
######## Pressure vent bench test.

(j)When required by this section, pressure relief valves must be tested for proper function as follows:

(1) Each self-closing pressure relief valve must open and reseat to a leaktight condition at the pressures prescribed for the applicable cargo tank specification or at the following pressures:

(i) For MC 306 cargo tanks:

(A) With MC 306 reclosing pressure relief valves, it must open at not less than 3 psi and not more than 4.4 psi and must reseat to a leak tight-condition at no less than 2.7 psi.

(B) With reclosing pressure relief valves modified as provided in § 180.405(c) to conform with DOT 406 specifications, according to the pressures set forth for a DOT 406 cargo tank in § 178.346-3 of this subchapter.

(ii) For MC 307 cargo tanks:

(A) With MC 307 reclosing pressure relief valves, it must open at not less than the cargo tank MAWP and not more than 110% of the cargo tank MAWP and must reseat to a leak tight-condition at no less than 90% of the cargo tank MAWP.

(B) With reclosing pressure relief valves modified as provided in § 180.405(c) to conform with DOT 407 specifications, according to the pressures set forth for a DOT 407 cargo tank in § 178.347-4 of this subchapter.

(iii) For MC 312 cargo tanks:

(A) With MC 312 reclosing pressure relief valves, it must open at not less than the cargo tank MAWP and not more than 110% of the cargo tank MAWP and must reseat to a leak tight-condition at no less than 90% of the cargo tank MAWP.

(B) With reclosing pressure relief valves modified as provided in § 180.405(c) to conform with DOT 412 specifications, according to the pressures set forth for a DOT 412 cargo tank in § 178.348-4 of this subchapter.

(iv) For MC 330 or MC 331 cargo tanks, it must open at not less than the required set pressure and not more than 110% of the required set pressure and must reseat to a leak-tight condition at no less than 90% of the required set pressure.

(v) For DOT 400-series cargo tanks, according to the pressures set forth for the applicable cargo tank specification in §§ 178.346-3, 178.347-4, and 178.348-4, respectively, of this subchapter.

(vi) For cargo tanks not specified in this paragraph, it must open at not less than the required set pressure and not more than 110% of the required set pressure and must reseat to a leak-tight condition at no less than 90% of the required set pressure or the pressure prescribed for the applicable cargo tank specification.

(2) Normal vents (1 psig vents) must be tested according to the testing criteria established by the valve manufacturer.

(3) Self-closing pressure relief devices not tested or failing the tests in paragraph (j)(1) of this section must be repaired or replaced.
