
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.413 Repair, modification, stretching, rebarrelling, or mounting of specification cargo tanks.
######## General.

(a)Any repair, modification, stretching, rebarrelling, or mounting of a cargo tank must be performed in conformance with the requirements of this section.

(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, each repair, modification, stretching, or rebarrelling of a specification cargo tank must be performed by a repair facility holding a valid National Board Certificate of Authorization for use of the National Board "R" stamp and must be made in accordance with the edition of the National Board Inspection Code in effect at the time the work is performed.

(i) Repairs, modifications, stretchings, and rebarrellings performed on non-ASME stamped specification cargo tanks may be performed by:

(A) A cargo tank manufacturer holding a valid ASME Certificate of Authorization for the use of the ASME "U" stamp using the quality control procedures used to obtain the Certificate of Authorization; or

(B) A repair facility holding a valid National Board Certificate of Authorization for use of the National Board "R" stamp using the quality control procedures used to obtain the Certificate of Authorization.

(ii) A repair, modification, stretching, or rebarrelling of a non-ASME stamped cargo tank may be done without certification by an Authorized Inspector, completion of the R-1 form, or being stamped with the "R" stamp.

(iii) A repair, as defined in ยง 180.403, of a DOT specification cargo tank used for the transportation of hazardous materials in the United States may be performed by a facility in Canada in accordance with the Transport Canada TDG Regulations (IBR, see ยง 171.7 of this subchapter) provided:

(A) The facility holds a valid Certificate of Authorization from a provincial pressure vessel jurisdiction for repair;

(B) The facility is registered in accordance with the Transport Canada TDG Regulations to repair the corresponding TC specification; and

(C) All repairs are performed using the quality control procedures used to obtain the Certificate of Authorization.

(2) Prior to each repair, modification, stretching, rebarrelling, or mounting, the cargo tank motor vehicle must be emptied of any hazardous material lading. In addition, cargo tank motor vehicles used to transport flammable or toxic lading must be sufficiently cleaned of residue and purged of vapors so any potential hazard is removed, including void spaces between double bulkheads, piping and vapor recovery systems.

(3) Each person performing a repair, modification, stretching, rebarrelling or mounting of a DOT specification cargo tank must be registered in accordance with subpart F of part 107 of this chapter.
