
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.413 Repair, modification, stretching, rebarrelling, or mounting of specification cargo tanks.
######## Maintenance or replacement of piping, valves, hoses, or fittings.

(c)After each repair, maintenance or replacement of a pipe, valve, hose, or fitting on a cargo tank, that component must be installed in accordance with the provisions of the applicable specification before the cargo tank is returned to service.

(1) After maintenance or replacement that does not involve welding on the cargo tank wall, the repaired or replaced piping, valve, hose, or fitting must be tested for leaks. This requirement is met when the piping, valve, hose, or fitting is tested after installation in accordance with ยง 180.407(h)(1). A hose may be tested before or after installation on the cargo tank.

(2) After repair or replacement of piping, valves, or fittings that involves welding on the cargo tank wall, the cargo tank must be pressure tested in accordance with the applicable manufacturing specification or ยง 180.407(g)(1)(iv). In addition, the affected piping, valve, or fitting must be tested in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) Hoses on cargo tanks in dedicated liquefied compressed gas, except carbon dioxide, service are excepted from these testing requirements, but must be tested in accordance with ยง 180.416(f).
