
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### § 180.413 Repair, modification, stretching, rebarrelling, or mounting of specification cargo tanks.
######## Modification, stretching, or rebarrelling.

(d)Modification, stretching or rebarrelling of a cargo tank motor vehicle must conform to the following provisions:

(1) The design of the modified, stretched, or rebarrelled cargo tank motor vehicle must be certified in writing by a Design Certifying Engineer as meeting the structural integrity and accident damage protection requirements of the applicable specification.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section, all new material and equipment affected by modification, stretching, or rebarrelling must meet the requirements of the specification in effect at the time such work is performed, and all applicable structural integrity requirements (§ 178.337-3, § 178.338-3, or § 178.345-3 of this subchapter). The work must conform to the requirements of the applicable specification as follows:

(i) For specification MC 300, MC 301, MC 302, MC 303, MC 305 and MC 306 cargo tanks, the provisions of either specification MC 306 or DOT 406 until August 31, 1995 and, thereafter to specification DOT 406 only;

(ii) For specification MC 304 and MC 307 cargo tanks, the provisions of either specification MC 307 or DOT 407 until August 31, 1995 and, thereafter to specification DOT 407 only;

(iii) For specification MC 310, MC 311, and MC 312 cargo tanks, the provisions of either specification MC 312 or DOT 412 until August 31, 1995 and, thereafter to specification DOT 412 only;

(iv) For specification MC 330 cargo tanks, the provisions of specification MC 331; and

(v) For specification MC 338 cargo tanks, the provisions of specification MC 338. However, structural modifications to MC 338 cargo tanks authorized under § 180.405(d) may conform to applicable provisions of the ASME Code instead of specification MC 338, provided the structural integrity of the modified cargo tank is at least equivalent to that of the original cargo tank.

(3) The person performing the modification, stretching, or rebarrelling must:

(i) Have knowledge of the original design concept, particularly with respect to structural design analysis, material and welding procedures.

(ii) Assure compliance of the rebuilt cargo tank's structural integrity, venting, and accident damage protection with the applicable specification requirements.

(iii) Assure compliance with all applicable Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations for all newly installed safety equipment.

(iv) Assure the suitability of each modification, stretching and rebarrelling that affects the lading retention capability of the cargo tank by performing the tests required in the applicable specification or § 180.407(g)(1)(iv).

(v) Any modification that changes information displayed on the specification plate requires the installation of a supplemental specification plate, nameplate, or both containing the information that reflects the cargo tank as modified, stretched or rebarrelled. The plate must include the name of the person or facility doing the work, DOT registration number, date work is completed, retest information, and any other information that differs from the original plate. The supplemental plates must be installed immediately adjacent to the existing plate or plates.

(vi) On a variable specification cargo tank, install a supplemental or new variable specification plate, and replace the specification listed on the original specification plate with the words "see variable specification plate."

(4) A Registered Inspector must certify that the modified, stretched, or rebarrelled cargo tank conforms to the requirements of this section and the applicable specification by issuing a supplemental certificate of compliance. The registration number of the Registered Inspector must be entered on the certificate.
