
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.416 Discharge system inspection and maintenance program for cargo tanks transporting liquefied compressed gases.
######## Monthly inspections and tests.

(d)(1) The operator must visually inspect each delivery hose assembly at least once each calendar month the delivery hose assembly is in service.

(2) The operator must visually inspect the piping system at least once each calendar month the cargo tank is in service. The inspection must include fusible elements and all components of the piping system, including bolts, connections, and seals.

(3) At least once each calendar month a cargo tank is in service, the operator must actuate all emergency discharge control devices designed to close the internal self-closing stop valve to assure that all linkages operate as designed. appendix A to this part outlines acceptable procedures that may be used for this test.

(4) The operator of a cargo tank must check the internal self-closing stop valve in the liquid discharge opening for leakage through the valve at least once each calendar month the cargo tank is in service. On cargo tanks equipped with a meter, the meter creep test as outlined in appendix B to this part or a test providing equivalent accuracy is acceptable. For cargo tanks that are not equipped with a meter, appendix B to this part outlines one acceptable method that may be used to check internal self-closing stop valves for closure.

(5) The operator must note each inspection in a record. That record must include the inspection date, the name of the person performing the inspection, the hose assembly identification number, the manufacturer of the hose assembly, the date the hose was assembled and tested, and an indication that the delivery hose assembly and piping system passed or failed the tests and inspections. The operator must retain a copy of each test and inspection record at its principal place of business or where the vehicle is housed or maintained until the next test of the same type is successfully completed.
