
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.416 Discharge system inspection and maintenance program for cargo tanks transporting liquefied compressed gases.
######## Rejection criteria.

(g)(1) No operator may use a delivery hose assembly determined to have any condition identified below for unloading liquefied compressed gases. An operator may remove and replace damaged sections or correct defects discovered. Repaired hose assemblies may be placed back in service if retested successfully in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(i) Damage to the hose cover that exposes the reinforcement.

(ii) Wire braid reinforcement that has been kinked or flattened so as to permanently deform the wire braid.

(iii) Soft spots when not under pressure, bulging under pressure, or loose outer covering.

(iv) Damaged, slipping, or excessively worn hose couplings.

(v) Loose or missing bolts or fastenings on bolted hose coupling assemblies.

(2) No operator may use a cargo tank with a piping system found to have any condition identified in this paragraph (g)(2) for unloading liquefied compressed gases.

(i) Any external leak identifiable without the use of instruments.

(ii) Bolts that are loose, missing, or severely corroded.

(iii) Manual stop valves that will not actuate.

(iv) Rubber hose flexible connectors with any condition outlined in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(v) Stainless steel flexible connectors with damaged reinforcement braid.

(vi) Internal self-closing stop valves that fail to close or that permit leakage through the valve detectable without the use of instruments.

(vii) Pipes or joints that are severely corroded.
