
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.417 Reporting and record retention requirements.
######## Vehicle certification.

(a)(1) Each owner of a specification cargo tank must retain the manufacturer's certificate, the manufacturer's ASME U1A data report, where applicable, and related papers certifying that the specification cargo tank identified in the documents was manufactured and tested in accordance with the applicable specification. This would include any certification of emergency discharge control systems required by ยง 173.315(n) of this subchapter or ยง 180.405(m). The owner must retain the documents throughout his ownership of the specification cargo tank and for one year thereafter. In the event of a change in ownership, the prior owner must retain non-fading photo copies of these documents for one year.

(2) Each motor carrier who uses a specification cargo tank motor vehicle must obtain a copy of the manufacturer's certificate and related papers or the alternative report authorized by paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section and retain the documents as specified in this paragraph (a)(2). A motor carrier who is not the owner of a cargo tank motor vehicle must also retain a copy of the vehicle certification report for as long as the cargo tank motor vehicle is used by that carrier and for one year thereafter. The information required by this section must be maintained at the company's principal place of business or at the location where the vehicle is housed or maintained. The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor carrier who leases a cargo tank for less than 30 days.
