
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart E - Qualification and Maintenance of Cargo Tanks
####### ยง 180.417 Reporting and record retention requirements.
######## Additional requirements for Specification MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tanks.

(c)(1) After completion of the pressure test specified in ยง 180.407(g)(3), each motor carrier operating a Specification MC 330 or MC 331 cargo tank in anhydrous ammonia, liquefied petroleum gas, or any other service that may cause stress corrosion cracking, must make a written report containing the following information:

(i) Carrier's name, address of principal place of business, and telephone number;

(ii) Complete identification plate data required by Specification MC 330 or MC 331, including data required by ASME Code;

(iii) Carrier's equipment number;

(iv) A statement indicating whether or not the tank was stress relieved after fabrication;

(v) Name and address of the person performing the test and the date of the test;

(vi) A statement of the nature and severity of any defects found. In particular, information must be furnished to indicate the location of defects detected, such as in weld, heat-affected zone, the liquid phase, the vapor phase, or the head-to-shell seam. If no defect or damage was discovered, that fact must be reported;

(vii) A statement indicating the methods employed to make repairs, who made the repairs, and the date they were completed. Also, a statement of whether or not the tank was stress relieved after repairs and, if so, whether full or local stress relieving was performed;

(viii) A statement of the disposition of the cargo tank, such as "cargo tank scrapped" or "cargo tank returned to service"; and

(ix) A statement of whether or not the cargo tank is used in anhydrous ammonia, liquefied petroleum gas, or any other service that may cause stress corrosion cracking. Also, if the cargo tank has been used in anhydrous ammonia service since the last report, a statement indicating whether each shipment of ammonia was certified by its shipper as containing 0.2 percent water by weight.

(2) A copy of the report must be retained by the carrier at its principal place of business during the period the cargo tank is in the carrier's service and for one year thereafter. Upon a written request to, and with the approval of, the Field Administrator, Regional Service Center, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration for the region in which a motor carrier has its principal place of business, the carrier may maintain the reports at a regional or terminal office.

(3) The requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply to a motor carrier leasing a cargo tank for less than 30 days.
