
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart F - Qualification and Maintenance of Tank Cars
####### ยง 180.509 Requirements for inspection and test of specification tank cars.
######## Internal coating and lining inspection and test.

(i)(1) At a minimum, the owner of an internal coating or lining applied to protect a tank used to transport a material that is corrosive or reactive to the tank must ensure an inspection adequate enough to detect defects or other conditions that could reduce the design level of reliability and safety of the tank is performed. In addition, the owner of a coating or lining of tank cars used to transport hazardous materials must ensure the lining complies with ยง 173.24(b)(2) and (b)(3) of this subchapter.

(2) The owner of the internal coating or lining must establish and maintain a record of the service life of the coating or lining and commodity combination, that is, the specific hazardous materials that were loaded into a tank and the coating or lining in place at the time of loading. The owner of the internal coating or lining must use its knowledge of the service life of each coating or lining and commodity combination to establish an appropriate inspection interval for that coating or lining and commodity combination. This interval must not exceed eight (8) years, unless the coating or lining owner can establish, document, and show that the service history or scientific analysis of the coating or lining and commodity pairing supports a longer inspection interval. The owner must maintain at its principal place of business a written procedure for collecting and documenting the performance of the coating or lining applied within the tank car for its service life. The internal coating or lining owner must provide this documentation, including inspection and test, repair, removal, and application procedures, to the FRA or car owner upon request. Further, the offeror must provide commodity information to the car owner and the owner of the internal coating or lining upon request.

(3) The owner of the internal coating or lining must provide the test method and acceptance criteria to the tank car owner and to the person responsible for qualifying the coating or lining. The tank car facility inspecting and testing the internal coating or lining must follow the inspection and test procedure, including the acceptance requirements, established by the internal coating or lining owner.
