
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart F - Qualification and Maintenance of Tank Cars
####### ยง 180.513 Repairs, alterations, conversions, and modifications.
######## Responsibilities of Tank Car Facility.

(b)A tank car facility must obtain the permission of the equipment owner before performing work affecting alteration, conversion, repair, or qualification of the owner's equipment. For the purposes of qualification and maintenance, the tank car facility must use the written instructions furnished by the owner or have written confirmation from the owner allowing the use of written instructions furnished by the owner or have written confirmation from the owner allowing the use of written instructions furnished by another. A tank car facility must not use, copy distribute, forward or provide to another person the owner's confidential and proprietary written instructions, procedures, manuals, and records without the owner's permission. A tank car facility must report all work performed to the owner. The tank car facility must also report observed damage, deterioration, failed components, or non-compliant parts to the owner. A tank car facility must incorporate the owner's Quality Assurance Program into their own Quality Assurance Program.

(c) Unless the exterior tank car shell or interior tank car jacket has a protective coating, after a repair that requires the complete removal of the tank car jacket, the exterior tank car shell and the interior tank car jacket must have a protective coating applied to prevent the deterioration of the tank shell and tank jacket. Previously applied coatings that still provide effective protection need not be covered over.

(d) After repair, replacement, or qualification of tank car service equipment, the tank service equipment must successfully pass the leak test prescribed in ยง 180.509(j).
