
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart F - Qualification and Maintenance of Tank Cars
####### ยง 180.519 Periodic retest and inspection of tank cars other than single-unit tank car tanks.
######## Pressure test.

(b)(1) Each tank must be subjected to the specified hydrostatic pressure and its permanent expansion determined. Pressure must be maintained for 30 seconds and for as long as necessary to secure complete expansion of the tank. Before testing, the pressure gauge must be shown to be accurate within 1 percent at test measure. The expansion gauge must be shown to be accurate, at test pressure, to within 1 percent. Expansion must be recorded in cubic cm. Permanent volumetric expansion may not exceed 10 percent of total volumetric expansion at test pressure and the tank must not leak or show evidence of distress.

(2) Each tank, except tanks built to specification DOT 107A, must also be subjected to interior air pressure test of at least 100 psig under conditions favorable to detection of any leakage. No leaks may appear.

(3) Safety relief valves must be retested by air or gas, must start-to-discharge at or below the prescribed pressure and must be vapor tight at or above the prescribed pressure.

(4) Rupture discs and fusible plugs must be removed from the tank and visually inspected.

(5) Tanks must be retested as specified in Retest Table 1 of this paragraph (b)(5), and before returning to service after repairs involving welding or heat treatment:

(6) The month and year of test, followed by a "V" if visually inspected as described in paragraph (c) of this section, must be plainly and permanently stamped into the metal of one head or chime of each tank with successful test results; for example, 01-90 for January 1990. On DOT 107A**** tanks, the date must be stamped into the metal of the marked end, except that if all tanks mounted on a car have been tested, the date may be stamped into the metal of a plate permanently applied to the bulkhead on the "A" end of the car. Dates of previous tests and all prescribed markings must be kept legible.
