
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Appendix A to Part 23 - Uniform Report of ACDBE Participation
##### all

Block 5 concernsnon-car rental concession activity covered by 49 CFR part 23 during the reporting period, both new or continuing.

In Column A, enter the total concession gross revenues for concessionaires (prime and sub) and purchases of goods and services (ACDBE and non-ACDBE combined) at the airport. In Column B, enter the number of lease agreements, contracts, etc. in effect or taking place during the reporting period in each participation category for all concessionaires and purchases of goods and services (ACDBE and non-ACDBE combined).

Because, by statute, non-ACDBE management contracts do not count as part of the base for ACDBE goals, the cells for total management contract participation and ACDBE participation as a percentage of total management contracting dollars are not intended to be filled in blocks 5, 6, 8, and 9.

In Column C, enter the total gross revenues in each participation category (ACDBEs) only. In Column D, enter the number of lease agreements, contracts, etc., in effect or entered into during the reporting period in each participation category for all concessionaires and purchases of goods and services (ACDBEs only).

Columns E and F are subsets of Column C: break out the total gross revenues listed in Column C into the portions that are attributable to race-conscious and race-neutral measures, respectively. Column G is a percentage calculation. It answers the question, what percentage of the numbers in Column A is represented by the corresponding numbers in Column C?
