
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Qualification and Maintenance of Portable Tanks
####### ยง 180.605 Requirements for periodic testing, inspection and repair of portable tanks.
######## Periodic inspection and test.

(e)The 5 year periodic inspection and test must include an internal and external examination and, unless excepted, a pressure test as specified in this section. Sheathing, thermal insulation, etc. need only to be removed to the extent required for reliable appraisal of the condition of the portable tank. Except for DOT Specification 56 and 57 portable tanks, reclosing pressure relief devices must be removed from the tank and tested separately unless they can be tested while installed on the portable tank. For portable tanks where the shell and equipment have been pressure-tested separately, after assembly they must be subjected together to a leakage test and effectively tested and inspected for corrosion. Portable tanks used for the transportation of refrigerated, liquefied gases are excepted from the requirement for internal inspection and the hydraulic pressure test during the 5-year periodic inspection and test, if the portable tanks were pressure tested to a minimum test pressure of 1.3 times the design pressure using an inert gas as prescribed in ยง 178.338-16(a) and (b) of this subchapter before putting the portable tank into service initially and after any exceptional inspections and tests specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
