
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter C - Hazardous Materials Regulations
##### PART 180 - CONTINUING QUALIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PACKAGINGS
###### Subpart G - Qualification and Maintenance of Portable Tanks
####### ยง 180.605 Requirements for periodic testing, inspection and repair of portable tanks.
######## Pressure test procedures for specification 51, 56, 57, 60, IM or UN portable tanks.

(h)(1) Each Specification 57 portable tank must be leak tested by a minimum sustained air pressure of at least 3 psig applied to the entire tank. Each Specification 51 or 56 portable tank must be tested by a minimum pressure (air or hydrostatic) of at least 2 psig or at least one and one-half times the design pressure (maximum allowable working pressure, or re-rated pressure) of the tank, whichever is greater. The leakage test for portable tanks used for refrigerated liquefied gas must be performed at 90% of MAWP. Leakage tests for all other portable tanks must be at a pressure of at least 25% of MAWP. During each air pressure test, the entire surface of all joints under pressure must be coated with or immersed in a solution of soap and water, heavy oil, or other material suitable for the purpose of detecting leaks. The pressure must be held for a period of time sufficiently long to assure detection of leaks, but in no case less than five minutes. During the air or hydrostatic test, relief devices may be removed, but all the closure fittings must be in place and the relief device openings plugged. Lagging need not be removed from a lagged tank if it is possible to maintain the required test pressure at constant temperature with the tank disconnected from the source of pressure.

(2) Each Specification 60 portable tank must be retested by completely filling the tank with water or other liquid having a similar viscosity, the temperature of the liquid must not exceed 37.7 &#xB0;C (100 &#xB0;F) during the test, and applying a pressure of 60 psig. The portable tank must be capable of holding the prescribed pressure for at least 10 minutes without leakage, evidence of impending failure, or failure. All closures shall be in place while the test is made and the pressure shall be gauged at the top of the tank. Safety devices and/or vents shall be plugged during this test.

(3) Each Specification IM or UN portable tank, except for UN portable tanks used for non-refrigerated and refrigerated liquefied gases, and all piping, valves and accessories, except pressure relief devices, must be hydrostatically tested with water, or other liquid of similar density and viscosity, to a pressure not less than 150% of its maximum allowable working pressure. UN portable tanks used for the transportation of non-refrigerated liquefied gases must be hydrostatically tested with water, or other liquid of similar density and viscosity, to a pressure not less than 130% of its maximum allowable working pressure. UN portable tanks used for the transportation of refrigerated liquefied gases may be tested hydrostatically or pneumatically using an inert gas to a pressure not less than 1.3 times the design pressure. For pneumatic testing, due regard for protection of all personnel must be taken because of the potential hazard involved in such a test. The pneumatic test pressure in the portable tank must be reached by gradually increasing the pressure to one-half of the test pressure. Thereafter, the test pressure must be increased in steps of approximately one-tenth of the test pressure until the required test pressure has been reached. The pressure must then be reduced to a value equal to four-fifths of the test pressure and held for a sufficient time to permit inspection of the portable tank for leaks. The minimum test pressure for a portable tank is determined on the basis of the hazardous materials that are intended to be transported in the portable tanks. For liquid, solid and non-refrigerated liquefied gases, the minimum test pressure for specific hazardous materials are specified in the applicable T Codes assigned to a particular hazardous material in the ยง 172.101 Table of this subchapter. While under pressure the tank shall be inspected for leakage, distortion, or any other condition which might render the tank unsafe for service. A portable tank fails to meet the requirements of the pressure test if, during the test, there is permanent distortion of the tank exceeding that permitted by the applicable specification; if there is any leakage; or if there are any deficiencies that would render the portable tank unsafe for transportation. Any portable tank that fails must be rejected and may not be used again for the transportation of a hazardous material unless the tank is adequately repaired, and, thereafter, a successful test is conducted in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph. An approval agency shall witness the hydrostatic or pneumatic test. Any damage or deficiency that might render the portable tank unsafe for service shall be repaired to the satisfaction of the witnessing approval agency. The repaired tank must be retested to the original pressure test requirements. Upon successful completion of the hydrostatic or pneumatic test, as applicable, the witnessing approval agency shall apply its name, identifying mark or identifying number in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.
