
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 23 - PARTICIPATION OF DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE IN AIRPORT CONCESSIONS
#### Appendix A to Part 23 - Uniform Report of ACDBE Participation
##### new

6. The numbers in this Block concern onlynon-car rental concession opportunities that arose during the current reporting period. In other words, the information requested in Block 6 is a subset of that requested in Block 5. Otherwise, this Block is filled out in the same way as Block 5.

7. Blocks 7-9 concern car rental goals and participation. In Block 7, provide the overall car rental percentage goal and the race-conscious (RC) and race-neutral (RN) components of it. The RC and RN percentages should add up to the overall percentage goal.

8. Block 8 is parallel to Block 5, except that it is for car rentals. The instructions for filling it out are the same as for Block 5.

9. Block 9 is parallel to Block 6, except that it is for car rentals. The information requested in Block 9 is a subset of that requested in Block 8. The instructions for filling it out are the same as for Block 6.

10. Block 10 instructs recipients to bring forward the cumulative ACDBE participation figures from Blocks 5 and 8, breaking down these figures by race and gender categories. Participation by non-minority women-owned firms should be listed in the "non-minority women" column. Participation by firms owned by minority women should be listed in the appropriate minority group column. The "other" column should be used to reflect participation by individuals who are not a member of a presumptively disadvantaged group who have been found disadvantaged on a case-by-case basis.

11. This block instructs recipients to attach five information items for each ACDBE firm participating in its program during the reporting period. If the firm's participation numbers are reflected in Blocks 5-6 and/or 8-9, the requested information about that firm should be attached in response to this item.

1. Name of Recipient and AIP Number:

2. Contact Information:

3a. Reporting Period:

3b. Date of Report:

4. Current Non-Car Rental ACDBE Goal: Race Conscious Goal ____% Race Neutral Goal ____% Overall Goal ____%

7. Current Car Rental ACDBE Goal: Race Conscious Goal ____% Race Neutral Goal ____% Overall Goal ____%

11. On an attachment, list the following information for each ACDBE firm participating in your program during the period of this report: (1) Firm name; (2) Type of business; (3) Beginning and expiration dates of agreement, including options to renew; (4) Dates that material amendments have been or will be made to agreement (if known); (5) Estimated gross receipts for the firm during this reporting period.
