
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 190 - PIPELINE SAFETY ENFORCEMENT AND REGULATORY PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 190.9 Petitions for finding or approval.

(a) In circumstances where a rule contained in parts 192, 193 and 195 of this chapter authorizes the Administrator to make a finding or approval, an operator may petition the Administrator for such a finding or approval.

(b) Each petition must refer to the rule authorizing the action sought and contain information or arguments that justify the action. Unless otherwise specified, no public proceeding is held on a petition before it is granted or denied. After a petition is received, the Administrator or participating state agency notifies the petitioner of the disposition of the petition or, if the request requires more extensive consideration or additional information or comments are requested and delay is expected, of the date by which action will be taken.

(1) For operators seeking a finding or approval involving intrastate pipeline transportation, petitions must be sent to:

(i) The State agency certified to participate under 49 U.S.C. 60105.

(ii) Where there is no state agency certified to participate, the Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington, DC 20590.

(2) For operators seeking a finding or approval involving interstate pipeline transportation, petitions must be sent to the Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington, DC 20590.

(c) All petitions must be received at least 90 days prior to the date by which the operator requests the finding or approval to be made.

(d) The Administrator will make all findings or approvals of petitions initiated under this section. A participating state agency receiving petitions initiated under this section shall provide the Administrator a written recommendation as to the disposition of any petition received by them. Where the Administrator does not reverse or modify a recommendation made by a state agency within 10 business days of its receipt, the recommended disposition shall constitute the Administrator's decision on the petition.
