
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 190 - PIPELINE SAFETY ENFORCEMENT AND REGULATORY PROCEDURES
###### Subpart B - Enforcement
####### ยง 190.203 Inspections and investigations.
######## et seq.,

(a) Officers, employees, or agents authorized by the Associate Administrator for Pipeline Safety, PHMSA, upon presenting appropriate credentials, are authorized to enter upon, inspect, and examine, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, the records and properties of persons to the extent such records and properties are relevant to determining the compliance of such persons with the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 60101or regulations or orders issued thereunder.

(b) Inspections are ordinarily conducted pursuant to one of the following:

(1) Routine scheduling by the Regional Director of the Region in which the facility is located;

(2) A complaint received from a member of the public;

(3) Information obtained from a previous inspection;

(4) Report from a State Agency participating in the Federal Program under 49 U.S.C. 60105;

(5) Pipeline accident or incident; or

(6) Whenever deemed appropriate by the Associate Administrator.

(c) If the Associate Administrator or Regional Director believes that further information is needed to determine appropriate action, the Associate Administrator or Regional Director may notify the pipeline operator in writing that the operator is required to provide specific information within 30 days from the time the notification is received by the operator, unless otherwise specified in the notification. The notification must provide a reasonable description of the specific information required. An operator may request an extension of time to respond by providing a written justification as to why such an extension is necessary and proposing an alternative submission date. A request for an extension may ask for the deadline to be stayed while the extension is considered. General statements of hardship are not acceptable bases for requesting an extension.
