
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 190 - PIPELINE SAFETY ENFORCEMENT AND REGULATORY PROCEDURES
###### Subpart D - Procedures for Adoption of Rules
####### ยง 190.327 Hearings.

(a) If a notice of proposed rulemaking does not provide for a hearing, any interested person may petition the Administrator for an informal hearing. The petition must be received by the Administrator not later than 20 days before expiration of the time stated in the notice. The filing of the petition does not automatically result in the scheduling of a hearing. A petition is granted only if the petitioner shows good cause for a hearing. If a petition for a hearing is granted, notice of the hearing is published in the

(b) Sections 556 and 557 of title 5, United States Code, do not apply to hearings held under this subpart. Unless otherwise specified, hearings held under this subpart are informal, non-adversarial fact-finding proceedings, at which there are no formal pleadings or adverse parties. Any regulation issued in a case in which an informal hearing is held is not necessarily based exclusively on the record of the hearing.

(c) The Administrator designates a representative to conduct any hearing held under this subpart. The Chief Counsel designates a member of his or her staff to serve as legal officer at the hearing.
