
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 190 - PIPELINE SAFETY ENFORCEMENT AND REGULATORY PROCEDURES
###### Subpart E - Cost Recovery for Design Reviews
####### ยง 190.411 Procedures for billing and payment of fee.

All PHMSA cost calculations for billing purposes are determined from the best available PHMSA records.

(a) PHMSA bills an applicant for cost recovery fees as specified in the Master Agreement, but the applicant will not be billed more frequently than quarterly.

(1) PHMSA will itemize cost recovery bills in sufficient detail to allow independent verification of calculations.

(2) [Reserved]

(b) PHMSA will monitor the applicant's account balance. Should the account balance fall below the required minimum balance specified in the Master Agreement, PHMSA may request at any time the applicant submit payment within 30 days to maintain the minimum balance.

(c) PHMSA will provide an updated estimate of costs to the applicant on or near October 1st of each calendar year.

(d) Payment of cost recovery fees is due within 30 days of issuance of a bill for the fees. If payment is not made within 30 days, PHMSA may charge an annual rate of interest (as set by the Department of Treasury's Statutory Debt Collection Authorities) on any outstanding debt, as specified in the Master Agreement.

(e) Payment of the cost recovery fee by the applicant does not obligate or prevent PHMSA from taking any particular action during safety inspections on the project.
