
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 191 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE; ANNUAL, INCIDENT, AND OTHER REPORTING
###### ยง 191.23 Reporting safety-related conditions.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each operator shall report in accordance with ยง 191.25 the existence of any of the following safety-related conditions involving facilities in service:

(1) In the case of a pipeline (other than an LNG facility) that operates at a hoop stress of 20% or more of its specified minimum yield strength, general corrosion that has reduced the wall thickness to less than that required for the maximum allowable operating pressure, and localized corrosion pitting to a degree where leakage might result.

(2) In the case of a UNGSF, general corrosion that has reduced the wall thickness of any metal component to less than that required for the well's maximum operating pressure, or localized corrosion pitting to a degree where leakage might result.

(3) Unintended movement or abnormal loading by environmental causes, such as an earthquake, landslide, or flood, that impairs the serviceability of a pipeline or the structural integrity or reliability of a UNGSF or LNG facility that contains, controls, or processes gas or LNG.

(4) Any crack or other material defect that impairs the structural integrity or reliability of a UNGSF or an LNG facility that contains, controls, or processes gas or LNG.

(5) Any material defect or physical damage that impairs the serviceability of a pipeline that operates at a hoop stress of 20% or more of its specified minimum yield strength, or the serviceability or the structural integrity of a UNGSF.

(6) Any malfunction or operating error that causes the pressure-plus the margin (build-up) allowed for operation of pressure limiting or control devices-to exceed either the maximum allowable operating pressure of a distribution or gathering line, the maximum well allowable operating pressure of an underground natural gas storage facility, or the maximum allowable working pressure of an LNG facility that contains or processes gas or LNG.

(7) A leak in a pipeline, UNGSF, or LNG facility containing or processing gas or LNG that constitutes an emergency.

(8) Inner tank leakage, ineffective insulation, or frost heave that impairs the structural integrity of an LNG storage tank.

(9) Any safety-related condition that could lead to an imminent hazard and causes (either directly or indirectly by remedial action of the operator), for purposes other than abandonment, a 20% or more reduction in operating pressure or shutdown of operation of a pipeline, UNGSF, or an LNG facility that contains or processes gas or LNG.
