
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 191 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE; ANNUAL, INCIDENT, AND OTHER REPORTING
###### ยง 191.25 Filing safety-related condition reports.
####### InformationResourcesManager@dot.gov

(c) Reports must be filed by email toor by facsimile to (202) 366-7128. For a report made pursuant to ยง 191.23(a)(1) through (9), the report must be headed "Safety-Related Condition Report." For a report made pursuant to ยง 191.23(a)(10), the report must be headed "Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure Exceedances." All reports must provide the following information:

(1) Name, principal address, and operator identification number (OPID) of the operator.

(2) Date of report.

(3) Name, job title, and business telephone number of person submitting the report.

(4) Name, job title, and business telephone number of person who determined that the condition exists.

(5) Date condition was discovered and date condition was first determined to exist.

(6) Location of condition, with reference to the State (and town, city, or county) or offshore site, and as appropriate, nearest street address, offshore platform, survey station number, milepost, landmark, or name of pipeline.

(7) Description of the condition, including circumstances leading to its discovery, any significant effects of the condition on safety, and the name of the commodity transported or stored.

(8) The corrective action taken (including reduction of pressure or shutdown) before the report is submitted and the planned follow-up or future corrective action, including the anticipated schedule for starting and concluding such action.
