
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 192.5 Class locations.

(a) This section classifies pipeline locations for purposes of this part. The following criteria apply to classifications under this section.

(1) A "class location unit" is an onshore area that extends 220 yards (200 meters) on either side of the centerline of any continuous 1- mile (1.6 kilometers) length of pipeline.

(2) Each separate dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling unit building is counted as a separate building intended for human occupancy.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, pipeline locations are classified as follows:

(1) A Class 1 location is:

(i) An offshore area; or

(ii) Any class location unit that has 10 or fewer buildings intended for human occupancy.

(2) A Class 2 location is any class location unit that has more than 10 but fewer than 46 buildings intended for human occupancy.

(3) A Class 3 location is:

(i) Any class location unit that has 46 or more buildings intended for human occupancy; or

(ii) An area where the pipeline lies within 100 yards (91 meters) of either a building or a small, well-defined outside area (such as a playground, recreation area, outdoor theater, or other place of public assembly) that is occupied by 20 or more persons on at least 5 days a week for 10 weeks in any 12-month period. (The days and weeks need not be consecutive.)

(4) A Class 4 location is any class location unit where buildings with four or more stories above ground are prevalent.

(c) The length of Class locations 2, 3, and 4 may be adjusted as follows:

(1) A Class 4 location ends 220 yards (200 meters) from the nearest building with four or more stories above ground.

(2) When a cluster of buildings intended for human occupancy requires a Class 2 or 3 location, the class location ends 220 yards (200 meters) from the nearest building in the cluster.

(d) An operator must have records that document the current class location of each gas transmission pipeline segment and that demonstrate how the operator determined each current class location in accordance with this section.
