
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 192.9 What requirements apply to gathering pipelines?
######## Compliance deadlines.

(g)An operator of a regulated onshore gathering line must comply with the following deadlines, as applicable.

(1) An operator of a new, replaced, relocated, or otherwise changed line must be in compliance with the applicable requirements of this section by the date the line goes into service, unless an exception in ยง 192.13 applies.

(2) If a Type A or Type B regulated onshore gathering pipeline existing on April 14, 2006, was not previously subject to this part, an operator has until the date stated in the second column to comply with the applicable requirement for the pipeline listed in the first column, unless the Administrator finds a later deadline is justified in a particular case:

(3) If, after April 14, 2006, a change in class location or increase in dwelling density causes an onshore gathering pipeline to become a Type A or Type B regulated onshore gathering line, the operator has 1 year for Type B lines and 2 years for Type A lines after the pipeline becomes a regulated onshore gathering pipeline to comply with this section.

(4) If a Type C gathering pipeline existing on or before May 16, 2022, was not previously subject to this part, an operator must comply with the applicable requirements of this section, except for paragraph (h) of this section, on or before:

(i) May 16, 2023; or

(ii) An alternative deadline approved by PHMSA. The operator must notify PHMSA and State or local pipeline safety authorities, as applicable, no later than 90 days in advance of the deadline in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The notification must be made in accordance with ยง 192.18 and must include a description of the affected facilities and operating environment, the proposed alternative deadline for each affected requirement, the justification for each alternative compliance deadline, and actions the operator will take to ensure the safety of affected facilities.
