
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 192.16 Customer notification.

(a) This section applies to each operator of a service line who does not maintain the customer's buried piping up to entry of the first building downstream, or, if the customer's buried piping does not enter a building, up to the principal gas utilization equipment or the first fence (or wall) that surrounds that equipment. For the purpose of this section, "customer's buried piping" does not include branch lines that serve yard lanterns, pool heaters, or other types of secondary equipment. Also, "maintain" means monitor for corrosion according to ยง 192.465 if the customer's buried piping is metallic, survey for leaks according to ยง 192.723, and if an unsafe condition is found, shut off the flow of gas, advise the customer of the need to repair the unsafe condition, or repair the unsafe condition.

(b) Each operator shall notify each customer once in writing of the following information:

(1) The operator does not maintain the customer's buried piping.

(2) If the customer's buried piping is not maintained, it may be subject to the potential hazards of corrosion and leakage.

(3) Buried gas piping should be-

(i) Periodically inspected for leaks;

(ii) Periodically inspected for corrosion if the piping is metallic; and

(iii) Repaired if any unsafe condition is discovered.

(4) When excavating near buried gas piping, the piping should be located in advance, and the excavation done by hand.

(5) The operator (if applicable), plumbing contractors, and heating contractors can assist in locating, inspecting, and repairing the customer's buried piping.

(c) Each operator shall notify each customer not later than August 14, 1996, or 90 days after the customer first receives gas at a particular location, whichever is later. However, operators of master meter systems may continuously post a general notice in a prominent location frequented by customers.

(d) Each operator must make the following records available for inspection by the Administrator or a State agency participating under 49 U.S.C. 60105 or 60106:

(1) A copy of the notice currently in use; and

(2) Evidence that notices have been sent to customers within the previous 3 years.
