
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart D - Design of Pipeline Components
####### § 192.153 Components fabricated by welding.
######## Rules for Construction of Pressure Vessels,see

(b) Each prefabricated unit that uses plate and longitudinal seams must be designed, constructed, and tested in accordance with the ASME BPVC (as defined in either Section VIII, Division 1 or Section VIII, Division 2; incorporated by reference,§ 192.7), except for the following:

(1) Regularly manufactured butt-welding fittings.

(2) Pipe that has been produced and tested under a specification listed in appendix B to this part.

(3) Partial assemblies such as split rings or collars.

(4) Prefabricated units that the manufacturer certifies have been tested to at least twice the maximum pressure to which they will be subjected under the anticipated operating conditions.

(c) Orange-peel bull plugs and orange-peel swages may not be used on pipelines that are to operate at a hoop stress of 20 percent or more of the SMYS of the pipe.

(d) Except for flat closures designed in accordance with the ASME BPVC (Section VIII, Division 1 or 2), flat closures and fish tails may not be used on pipe that either operates at 100 p.s.i. (689 kPa) gage or more, or is more than 3 inches in (76 millimeters) nominal diameter.

(e) The test requirements for a prefabricated unit or pressure vessel, defined for this paragraph as components with a design pressure established in accordance with paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section are as follows.

(1) A prefabricated unit or pressure vessel installed after July 14, 2004 is not subject to the strength testing requirements at § 192.505(b) provided the component has been tested in accordance with paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section and with a test factor of at least 1.3 times MAOP.

(2) A prefabricated unit or pressure vessel must be tested for a duration specified as follows:

(i) A prefabricated unit or pressure vessel installed after July 14, 2004, but before October 1, 2021 is exempt from §§ 192.505(c) and (d) and 192.507(c) provided it has been tested for a duration consistent with the ASME BPVC requirements referenced in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(ii) A prefabricated unit or pressure vessel installed on or after October 1, 2021 must be tested for the duration specified in either § 192.505(c) or (d), § 192.507(c), or § 192.509(a), whichever is applicable for the pipeline in which the component is being installed.

(3) For any prefabricated unit or pressure vessel permanently or temporarily installed on a pipeline facility, an operator must either:

(i) Test the prefabricated unit or pressure vessel in accordance with this section and Subpart J of this part after it has been placed on its support structure at its final installation location. The test may be performed before or after it has been tied-in to the pipeline. Test records that meet § 192.517(a) must be kept for the operational life of the prefabricated unit or pressure vessel; or

(ii) For a prefabricated unit or pressure vessel that is pressure tested prior to installation or where a manufacturer's pressure test is used in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, inspect the prefabricated unit or pressure vessel after it has been placed on its support structure at its final installation location and confirm that the prefabricated unit or pressure vessel was not damaged during any prior operation, transportation, or installation into the pipeline. The inspection procedure and documented inspection must include visual inspection for vessel damage, including, at a minimum, inlets, outlets, and lifting locations. Injurious defects that are an integrity threat may include dents, gouges, bending, corrosion, and cracking. This inspection must be performed prior to operation but may be performed either before or after it has been tied-in to the pipeline. If injurious defects that are an integrity threat are found, the prefabricated unit or pressure vessel must be either non-destructively tested, re-pressure tested, or remediated in accordance with applicable part 192 requirements for a fabricated unit or with the applicable ASME BPVC requirements referenced in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. Test, inspection, and repair records for the fabricated unit or pressure vessel must be kept for the operational life of the component. Test records must meet the requirements in § 192.517(a).

(4) An initial pressure test from the prefabricated unit or pressure vessel manufacturer may be used to meet the requirements of this section with the following conditions:

(i) The prefabricated unit or pressure vessel is newly-manufactured and installed on or after October 1, 2021, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.

(ii) An initial pressure test from the fabricated unit or pressure vessel manufacturer or other prior test of a new or existing prefabricated unit or pressure vessel may be used for a component that is temporarily installed in a pipeline facility in order to complete a testing, integrity assessment, repair, odorization, or emergency response-related task, including noise or pollution abatement. The temporary component must be promptly removed after that task is completed. If operational and environmental constraints require leaving a temporary prefabricated unit or pressure vessel under this paragraph in place for longer than 30 days, the operator must notify PHMSA and State or local pipeline safety authorities, as applicable, in accordance with § 192.18.

(iii) The manufacturer's pressure test must meet the minimum requirements of this part; and

(iv) The operator inspects and remediates the prefabricated unit or pressure vessel after installation in accordance with paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.

(5) An existing prefabricated unit or pressure vessel that is temporarily removed from a pipeline facility to complete a testing, integrity assessment, repair, odorization, or emergency response-related task, including noise or pollution abatement, and then re-installed at the same location must be inspected in accordance with paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section; however, a new pressure test is not required provided no damage or threats to the operational integrity of the prefabricated unit or pressure vessel were identified during the inspection and the MAOP of the pipeline is not increased.

(6) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(4)(ii) and (5) of this section, on or after October 1, 2021, an existing prefabricated unit or pressure vessel relocated and operated at a different location must meet the requirements of this part and the following:

(i) The prefabricated unit or pressure vessel must be designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of this part at the time the vessel is returned to operational service at the new location; and

(ii) The prefabricated unit or pressure vessel must be pressure tested by the operator in accordance with the testing and inspection requirements of this part applicable to newly installed prefabricated units and pressure vessels.
