
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart D - Design of Pipeline Components
####### ยง 192.197 Control of the pressure of gas delivered from high-pressure distribution systems.

(a) If the maximum actual operating pressure of the distribution system is 60 p.s.i. (414 kPa) gage, or less and a service regulator having the following characteristics is used, no other pressure limiting device is required:

(1) A regulator capable of reducing distribution line pressure to pressures recommended for household appliances.

(2) A single port valve with proper orifice for the maximum gas pressure at the regulator inlet.

(3) A valve seat made of resilient material designed to withstand abrasion of the gas, impurities in gas, cutting by the valve, and to resist permanent deformation when it is pressed against the valve port.

(4) Pipe connections to the regulator not exceeding 2 inches (51 millimeters) in diameter.

(5) A regulator that, under normal operating conditions, is able to regulate the downstream pressure within the necessary limits of accuracy and to limit the build-up of pressure under no-flow conditions to prevent a pressure that would cause the unsafe operation of any connected and properly adjusted gas utilization equipment.

(6) A self-contained service regulator with no external static or control lines.

(b) If the maximum actual operating pressure of the distribution system is 60 p.s.i. (414 kPa) gage, or less, and a service regulator that does not have all of the characteristics listed in paragraph (a) of this section is used, or if the gas contains materials that seriously interfere with the operation of service regulators, there must be suitable protective devices to prevent unsafe overpressuring of the customer's appliances if the service regulator fails.

(c) If the maximum actual operating pressure of the distribution system exceeds 60 p.s.i. (414 kPa) gage, one of the following methods must be used to regulate and limit, to the maximum safe value, the pressure of gas delivered to the customer:

(1) A service regulator having the characteristics listed in paragraph (a) of this section, and another regulator located upstream from the service regulator. The upstream regulator may not be set to maintain a pressure higher than 60 p.s.i. (414 kPa) gage. A device must be installed between the upstream regulator and the service regulator to limit the pressure on the inlet of the service regulator to 60 p.s.i. (414 kPa) gage or less in case the upstream regulator fails to function properly. This device may be either a relief valve or an automatic shutoff that shuts, if the pressure on the inlet of the service regulator exceeds the set pressure (60 p.s.i. (414 kPa) gage or less), and remains closed until manually reset.

(2) A service regulator and a monitoring regulator set to limit, to a maximum safe value, the pressure of the gas delivered to the customer.

(3) A service regulator with a relief valve vented to the outside atmosphere, with the relief valve set to open so that the pressure of gas going to the customer does not exceed a maximum safe value. The relief valve may either be built into the service regulator or it may be a separate unit installed downstream from the service regulator. This combination may be used alone only in those cases where the inlet pressure on the service regulator does not exceed the manufacturer's safe working pressure rating of the service regulator, and may not be used where the inlet pressure on the service regulator exceeds 125 p.s.i. (862 kPa) gage. For higher inlet pressures, the methods in paragraph (c) (1) or (2) of this section must be used.

(4) A service regulator and an automatic shutoff device that closes upon a rise in pressure downstream from the regulator and remains closed until manually reset.
