
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart G - General Construction Requirements for Transmission Lines and Mains
####### ยง 192.309 Repair of steel pipe.

(a) Each imperfection or damage that impairs the serviceability of a length of steel pipe must be repaired or removed. If a repair is made by grinding, the remaining wall thickness must at least be equal to either:

(1) The minimum thickness required by the tolerances in the specification to which the pipe was manufactured; or

(2) The nominal wall thickness required for the design pressure of the pipeline.

(b) Each of the following dents must be removed from steel pipe to be operated at a pressure that produces a hoop stress of 20 percent, or more, of SMYS, unless the dent is repaired by a method that reliable engineering tests and analyses show can permanently restore the serviceability of the pipe:

(1) A dent that contains a stress concentrator such as a scratch, gouge, groove, or arc burn.

(2) A dent that affects the longitudinal weld or a circumferential weld.

(3) In pipe to be operated at a pressure that produces a hoop stress of 40 percent or more of SMYS, a dent that has a depth of:

(i) More thaninch (6.4 millimeters) in pipe 12inches (324 millimeters) or less in outer diameter; or

(ii) More than 2 percent of the nominal pipe diameter in pipe over 12inches (324 millimeters) in outer diameter.

(c) Each arc burn on steel pipe to be operated at a pressure that produces a hoop stress of 40 percent, or more, of SMYS must be repaired or removed. If a repair is made by grinding, the arc burn must be completely removed and the remaining wall thickness must be at least equal to either:

(1) The minimum wall thickness required by the tolerances in the specification to which the pipe was manufactured; or

(2) The nominal wall thickness required for the design pressure of the pipeline.

(d) A gouge, groove, arc burn, or dent may not be repaired by insert patching or by pounding out.

(e) Each gouge, groove, arc burn, or dent that is removed from a length of pipe must be removed by cutting out the damaged portion as a cylinder.
