
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart G - General Construction Requirements for Transmission Lines and Mains
####### ยง 192.327 Cover.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c), (e), (f), and (g) of this section, each buried transmission line must be installed with a minimum cover as follows:

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, each buried main must be installed with at least 24 inches (610 millimeters) of cover.

(c) Where an underground structure prevents the installation of a transmission line or main with the minimum cover, the transmission line or main may be installed with less cover if it is provided with additional protection to withstand anticipated external loads.

(d) A main may be installed with less than 24 inches (610 millimeters) of cover if the law of the State or municipality:

(1) Establishes a minimum cover of less than 24 inches (610 millimeters);

(2) Requires that mains be installed in a common trench with other utility lines; and

(3) Provides adequately for prevention of damage to the pipe by external forces.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all pipe installed in a navigable river, stream, or harbor must be installed with a minimum cover of 48 inches (1,219 millimeters) in soil or 24 inches (610 millimeters) in consolidated rock between the top of the pipe and the underwater natural bottom (as determined by recognized and generally accepted practices).

(f) All pipe installed offshore, except in the Gulf of Mexico and its inlets, under water not more than 200 feet (60 meters) deep, as measured from the mean low tide, must be installed as follows:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, pipe under water less than 12 feet (3.66 meters) deep, must be installed with a minimum cover of 36 inches (914 millimeters) in soil or 18 inches (457 millimeters) in consolidated rock between the top of the pipe and the natural bottom.

(2) Pipe under water at least 12 feet (3.66 meters) deep must be installed so that the top of the pipe is below the natural bottom, unless the pipe is supported by stanchions, held in place by anchors or heavy concrete coating, or protected by an equivalent means.

(g) All pipelines installed under water in the Gulf of Mexico and its inlets, as defined in ยง 192.3, must be installed in accordance with ยง 192.612(b)(3).
