
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart I - Requirements for Corrosion Control
####### ยง 192.455 External corrosion control: Buried or submerged pipelines installed after July 31, 1971.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), (f), and (g) of this section, each buried or submerged pipeline installed after July 31, 1971, must be protected against external corrosion, including the following:

(1) It must have an external protective coating meeting the requirements of ยง 192.461.

(2) It must have a cathodic protection system designed to protect the pipeline in accordance with this subpart, installed and placed in operation within 1 year after completion of construction.

(b) An operator need not comply with paragraph (a) of this section, if the operator can demonstrate by tests, investigation, or experience in the area of application, including, as a minimum, soil resistivity measurements and tests for corrosion accelerating bacteria, that a corrosive environment does not exist. However, within 6 months after an installation made pursuant to the preceding sentence, the operator shall conduct tests, including pipe-to-soil potential measurements with respect to either a continuous reference electrode or an electrode using close spacing, not to exceed 20 feet (6 meters), and soil resistivity measurements at potential profile peak locations, to adequately evaluate the potential profile along the entire pipeline. If the tests made indicate that a corrosive condition exists, the pipeline must be cathodically protected in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(c) An operator need not comply with paragraph (a) of this section, if the operator can demonstrate by tests, investigation, or experience that-

(1) For a copper pipeline, a corrosive environment does not exist; or

(2) For a temporary pipeline with an operating period of service not to exceed 5 years beyond installation, corrosion during the 5-year period of service of the pipeline will not be detrimental to public safety.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, if a pipeline is externally coated, it must be cathodically protected in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(e) Aluminum may not be installed in a buried or submerged pipeline if that aluminum is exposed to an environment with a natural pH in excess of 8, unless tests or experience indicate its suitability in the particular environment involved.

(f) This section does not apply to electrically isolated, metal alloy fittings in plastic pipelines, if:

(1) For the size fitting to be used, an operator can show by test, investigation, or experience in the area of application that adequate corrosion control is provided by the alloy composition; and

(2) The fitting is designed to prevent leakage caused by localized corrosion pitting.

(g) Electrically isolated metal alloy fittings installed after January 22, 2019, that do not meet the requirements of paragraph (f) must be cathodically protected, and must be maintained in accordance with the operator's integrity management plan.
