
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.60 General Authorizations and Delegations to Secretarial Officers.

(a) Acting in his or her own name and title, the Under Secretary, the General Counsel, and each Assistant Secretary, within his or her sphere of responsibility, is authorized to identify and define the requirements for, and to recommend to the Secretary, new or revised departmental policies, plans, and proposals. Each of these officers is authorized to issue departmental standards, criteria, systems and procedures that are consistent with applicable laws, Executive Orders, Government-wide regulations and policies established by the Secretary, and to inspect, review, and evaluate departmental program performance and effectiveness and advise the Secretary regarding the adequacy thereof.

(b) Except for nondelegable statutory duties including those that transfer as a result of succession to act as Secretary of Transportation, each Deputy Assistant Secretary and Deputy General Counsel is authorized to act for and perform the duties of his or her principal in the absence or disability of the principal and as otherwise directed by the principal.

(c) The Deputy Secretary, the Under Secretary, the General Counsel, and the Assistant Secretaries for Administration, Budget and Programs, and Governmental Affairs are delegated authority to:

(1) Redelegate and authorize successive redelegations of authority granted by the Secretary within their respective organizations, except as limited by law or specific administrative reservation, including authority to publish those redelegations in appendix A of this part.

(2) Authorize and approve official travel (except foreign travel) and transportation for themselves, their subordinates, and others performing services for, or in cooperation with, the Office of the Secretary.

(3) Establish ad hoc committees for specific tasks within their assigned staff area.

(4) Establish, modify, extend, or terminate standing committees within their specific areas of responsibility when directed or authorized to do so by the Secretary.

(5) Designate members of interagency committees when such committees are specifically concerned with responsibilities of direct interest to their office.

(6) Exercise the following authorities with respect to positions in the Senior Executive Service and Senior Level within their respective areas of responsibility:
