
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart L - Operations
####### ยง 192.605 Procedural manual for operations, maintenance, and emergencies.
######## Maintenance and normal operations.

(b)The manual required by paragraph (a) of this section must include procedures for the following, if applicable, to provide safety during maintenance and operations.

(1) Operating, maintaining, and repairing the pipeline in accordance with each of the requirements of this subpart and subpart M of this part.

(2) Controlling corrosion in accordance with the operations and maintenance requirements of subpart I of this part.

(3) Making construction records, maps, and operating history available to appropriate operating personnel.

(4) Gathering of data needed for reporting incidents under Part 191 of this chapter in a timely and effective manner.

(5) Starting up and shutting down any part of the pipeline in a manner designed to assure operation within the MAOP limits prescribed by this part, plus the build-up allowed for operation of pressure-limiting and control devices.

(6) Maintaining compressor stations, including provisions for isolating units or sections of pipe and for purging before returning to service.

(7) Starting, operating and shutting down gas compressor units.

(8) Periodically reviewing the work done by operator personnel to determine the effectiveness, and adequacy of the procedures used in normal operation and maintenance and modifying the procedures when deficiencies are found.

(9) Taking adequate precautions in excavated trenches to protect personnel from the hazards of unsafe accumulations of vapor or gas, and making available when needed at the excavation, emergency rescue equipment, including a breathing apparatus and, a rescue harness and line.

(10) Systematic and routine testing and inspection of pipe-type or bottle-type holders including-

(i) Provision for detecting external corrosion before the strength of the container has been impaired;

(ii) Periodic sampling and testing of gas in storage to determine the dew point of vapors contained in the stored gas which, if condensed, might cause internal corrosion or interfere with the safe operation of the storage plant; and

(iii) Periodic inspection and testing of pressure limiting equipment to determine that it is in safe operating condition and has adequate capacity.

(11) Responding promptly to a report of a gas odor inside or near a building, unless the operator's emergency procedures under ยง 192.615(a)(3) specifically apply to these reports.

(12) Implementing the applicable control room management procedures required by ยง 192.631.
