
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart L - Operations
####### ยง 192.607 Verification of Pipeline Material Properties and Attributes: Onshore steel transmission pipelines.
######## in situ

(2) For each population defined according to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the operator must determine material properties at all excavations that expose the pipe associated with anomaly direct examinations,evaluations, repairs, remediations, or maintenance, except for pipeline segments exposed during excavation activities pursuant to ยง 192.614, until completion of the lesser of the following:

(i) One excavation per mile rounded up to the nearest whole number; or

(ii) 150 excavations if the population is more than 150 miles.

(3) Prior tests conducted for a single excavation according to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section may be counted as one sample under the sampling requirements of this paragraph (e).

(4) If the test results identify line pipe with properties that are not consistent with available information or existing expectations or assumed properties used for operations and maintenance in the past, the operator must establish an expanded sampling program. The expanded sampling program must use valid statistical bases designed to achieve at least a 95% confidence level that material properties used in the operation and maintenance of the pipeline are valid. The approach must address how the sampling plan will be expanded to address findings that reveal material properties that are not consistent with all available information or existing expectations or assumed material properties used for pipeline operations and maintenance in the past. Operators must notify PHMSA in advance of using an expanded sampling approach in accordance with ยง 192.18.

(5) An operator may use an alternative statistical sampling approach that differs from the requirements specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. The alternative sampling program must use valid statistical bases designed to achieve at least a 95% confidence level that material properties used in the operation and maintenance of the pipeline are valid. The approach must address how the sampling plan will be expanded to address findings that reveal material properties that are not consistent with all available information or existing expectations or assumed material properties used for pipeline operations and maintenance in the past. Operators must notify PHMSA in advance of using an alternative sampling approach in accordance with ยง 192.18.
