
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart L - Operations
####### ยง 192.615 Emergency plans.
######## i.e.,

(2) Establishing and maintaining adequate means of communication with the appropriate public safety answering point (9-1-1 emergency call center), where direct access to a 9-1-1 emergency call center is available from the location of the pipeline, and fire, police, and other public officials. Operators may establish liaison with the appropriate local emergency coordinating agencies, such as 9-1-1 emergency call centers or county emergency managers, in lieu of communicating individually with each fire, police, or other public entity. An operator must determine the responsibilities, resources, jurisdictional area(s), and emergency contact telephone number(s) for both local and out-of-area calls of each Federal, State, and local government organization that may respond to a pipeline emergency, and inform such officials about the operator's ability to respond to a pipeline emergency and the means of communication during emergencies.

(3) Prompt and effective response to a notice of each type of emergency, including the following:

(i) Gas detected inside or near a building.

(ii) Fire located near or directly involving a pipeline facility.

(iii) Explosion occurring near or directly involving a pipeline facility.

(iv) Natural disaster.

(4) The availability of personnel, equipment, tools, and materials, as needed at the scene of an emergency.

(5) Actions directed toward protecting people first and then property.

(6) Taking necessary actions, including but not limited to, emergency shutdown, valve shut-off, or pressure reduction, in any section of the operator's pipeline system, to minimize hazards of released gas to life, property, or the environment.

(7) Making safe any actual or potential hazard to life or property.
