
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart L - Operations
####### § 192.615 Emergency plans.
######## i.e.,

(8) Notifying the appropriate public safety answering point (9-1-1 emergency call center) where direct access to a 9-1-1 emergency call center is available from the location of the pipeline, and fire, police, and other public officials, of gas pipeline emergencies to coordinate and share information to determine the location of the emergency, including both planned responses and actual responses during an emergency. The operator must immediately and directly notify the appropriate public safety answering point or other coordinating agency for the communities and jurisdictions in which the pipeline is located after receiving a notification of potential rupture, as defined in § 192.3, to coordinate and share information to determine the location of any release, regardless of whether the segment is subject to the requirements of § 192.179, § 192.634, or § 192.636.

(9) Safely restoring any service outage.

(10) Beginning action under § 192.617, if applicable, as soon after the end of the emergency as possible.

(11) Actions required to be taken by a controller during an emergency in accordance with the operator's emergency plans and requirements set forth in §§ 192.631, 192.634, and 192.636.

(12) Each operator must develop written rupture identification procedures to evaluate and identify whether a notification of potential rupture, as defined in § 192.3, is an actual rupture event or a non-rupture event. These procedures must, at a minimum, specify the sources of information, operational factors, and other criteria that operator personnel use to evaluate a notification of potential rupture and identify an actual rupture. For operators installing valves in accordance with § 192.179(e), § 192.179(f), or that are subject to the requirements in § 192.634, those procedures must provide for rupture identification as soon as practicable.

(b) Each operator shall:

(1) Furnish its supervisors who are responsible for emergency action a copy of that portion of the latest edition of the emergency procedures established under paragraph (a) of this section as necessary for compliance with those procedures.

(2) Train the appropriate operating personnel to assure that they are knowledgeable of the emergency procedures and verify that the training is effective.

(3) Review employee activities to determine whether the procedures were effectively followed in each emergency.
