
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart L - Operations
####### § 192.620 Alternative maximum allowable operating pressure for certain steel pipelines.
######## What is an operator electing to use the alternative maximum allowable operating pressure required to do?

(c)If an operator elects to use the alternative maximum allowable operating pressure calculated under paragraph (a) of this section for a pipeline segment, the operator must do each of the following:

(1) For pipelines already in service, notify the PHMSA pipeline safety regional office where the pipeline is in service of the intention to use the alternative pressure at least 180 days before operating at the alternative MAOP. For new pipelines, notify the PHMSA pipeline safety regional office of planned alternative MAOP design and operation at least 60 days prior to the earliest start date of either pipe manufacturing or construction activities. An operator must also notify the state pipeline safety authority when the pipeline is located in a state where PHMSA has an interstate agent agreement or where an intrastate pipeline is regulated by that state.

(2) Certify, by signature of a senior executive officer of the company, as follows:

(i) The pipeline segment meets the conditions described in paragraph (b) of this section; and

(ii) The operating and maintenance procedures include the additional operating and maintenance requirements of paragraph (d) of this section; and

(iii) The review and any needed program upgrade of the damage prevention program required by paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section has been completed.

(3) Send a copy of the certification required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section to each PHMSA pipeline safety regional office where the pipeline is in service 30 days prior to operating at the alternative MAOP. An operator must also send a copy to a State pipeline safety authority when the pipeline is located in a State where PHMSA has an interstate agent agreement, or an intrastate pipeline is regulated by that State.

(4) For each pipeline segment, do one of the following:

(i) Perform a strength test as described in § 192.505 at a test pressure calculated under paragraph (a) of this section or

(ii) For a pipeline segment in existence prior to December 22, 2008, certify, under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, that the strength test performed under § 192.505 was conducted at test pressure calculated under paragraph (a) of this section, or conduct a new strength test in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section.

(5) Comply with the additional operation and maintenance requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(6) If the performance of a construction task associated with implementing alternative MAOP that occurs after December 22, 2008, can affect the integrity of the pipeline segment, treat that task as a "covered task", notwithstanding the definition in § 192.801(b) and implement the requirements of subpart N as appropriate.

(7) Maintain, for the useful life of the pipeline, records demonstrating compliance with paragraphs (b), (c)(6), and (d) of this section.

(8) A Class 1 and Class 2 location can be upgraded one class due to class changes per § 192.611(a). All class location changes from Class 1 to Class 2 and from Class 2 to Class 3 must have all anomalies evaluated and remediated per: The "original pipeline class grade" § 192.620(d)(11) anomaly repair requirements; and all anomalies with a wall loss equal to or greater than 40 percent must be excavated and remediated. Pipelines in Class 4 may not operate at an alternative MAOP.
