
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart L - Operations
####### § 192.632 Engineering Critical Assessment for Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure Reconfirmation: Onshore steel transmission pipelines.
######## see,see

(ii) The ECA must analyze any metal loss defects not associated with a dent, including corrosion, gouges, scrapes or other metal loss defects that could remain in the pipe, to determine the predicted failure pressure. ASME/ANSI B31G (incorporated by reference,§ 192.7) or R-STRENG (incorporated by reference,§ 192.7) must be used for corrosion defects. Both procedures and their analysis apply to corroded regions that do not penetrate the pipe wall over 80 percent of the wall thickness and are subject to the limitations prescribed in the equations' procedures. The ECA must use conservative assumptions for metal loss dimensions (length, width, and depth).

(iii) When determining the predicted failure pressure for gouges, scrapes, selective seam weld corrosion, crack-related defects, or any defect within a dent, appropriate failure criteria and justification of the criteria must be used and documented.

(iv) If SMYS or actual material yield and ultimate tensile strength is not known or not documented by traceable, verifiable, and complete records, then the operator must assume 30,000 p.s.i. or determine the material properties using § 192.607.

(3) The ECA must analyze the interaction of defects to conservatively determine the most limiting predicted failure pressure. Examples include, but are not limited to, cracks in or near locations with corrosion metal loss, dents with gouges or other metal loss, or cracks in or near dents or other deformation damage. The ECA must document all evaluations and any assumptions used in the ECA process.

(4) The MAOP must be established at the lowest predicted failure pressure for any known or postulated defect, or interacting defects, remaining in the pipe divided by the greater of 1.25 or the applicable factor listed in § 192.619(a)(2)(ii).
