
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart L - Operations
####### ยง 192.632 Engineering Critical Assessment for Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure Reconfirmation: Onshore steel transmission pipelines.
######## Assessment to determine defects remaining in the pipe.

(b)An operator must utilize previous pressure tests or develop and implement an assessment program to determine the size of defects remaining in the pipe to be analyzed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) An operator may use a previous pressure test that complied with subpart J to determine the defects remaining in the pipe if records for a pressure test meeting the requirements of subpart J of this part exist for the pipeline segment. The operator must calculate the largest defect that could have survived the pressure test. The operator must predict how much the defects have grown since the date of the pressure test in accordance with ยง 192.712. The ECA must analyze the predicted size of the largest defect that could have survived the pressure test that could remain in the pipe at the time the ECA is performed. The operator must calculate the remaining life of the most severe defects that could have survived the pressure test and establish a re-assessment interval in accordance with the methodology in ยง 192.712.

(2) Operators may use an inline inspection program in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) Operators may use "other technology" if it is validated by a subject matter expert to produce an equivalent understanding of the condition of the pipe equal to or greater than pressure testing or an inline inspection program. If an operator elects to use "other technology" in the ECA, it must notify PHMSA in advance of using the other technology in accordance with ยง 192.18. The "other technology" notification must have:

(i) Descriptions of the technology or technologies to be used for all tests, examinations, and assessments, including characterization of defect size used in the crack assessments (length, depth, and volumetric); and

(ii) Procedures and processes to conduct tests, examinations, assessments and evaluations, analyze defects, and remediate defects discovered.
