
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart M - Maintenance
####### § 192.745 Valve maintenance: Transmission lines.
######## i.e.,

(d) For each alternative equivalent technology installed on an onshore pipeline under § 192.179(e) or (f) or § 192.634 that is manually or locally operated (not a rupture-mitigation valve (RMV), as that term is defined in § 192.3):

(1) Operators must achieve a valve closure time of 30 minutes or less, pursuant to § 192.636(b), through an initial drill and through periodic validation as required in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. An operator must review and document the results of each phase of the drill response to validate the total response time, including confirming the rupture, and valve shut-off time as being less than or equal to 30 minutes after rupture identification.

(2) Within each pipeline system and within each operating or maintenance field work unit, operators must randomly select a valve serving as an alternative equivalent technology in lieu of an RMV for an annual 30-minute-total response time validation drill that simulates worst-case conditions for that location to ensure compliance with § 192.636. Operators are not required to close the valve fully during the drill; a minimum 25 percent valve closure is sufficient to demonstrate compliance with drill requirements unless the operator has operational information that requires an additional closure percentage for maintaining reliability. The response drill must occur at least once each calendar year, with intervals not to exceed 15 months. Operators must include in their written procedures the method they use to randomly select which alternative equivalent technology is tested in accordance with this paragraph.

(3) If the 30-minute-maximum response time cannot be achieved during the drill, the operator must revise response efforts to achieve compliance with § 192.636 as soon as practicable but no later than 12 months after the drill. Alternative valve shut-off measures must be in place in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section within 7 days of a failed drill.

(4) Based on the results of response-time drills, the operator must include lessons learned in:

(i) Training and qualifications programs;

(ii) Design, construction, testing, maintenance, operating, and emergency procedures manuals; and

(iii) Any other areas identified by the operator as needing improvement.

(5) The requirements of this paragraph (d) do not apply to manual valves who, pursuant to § 192.636(g), have been exempted from the requirements of § 192.636(b).

(e) Each operator must develop and implement remedial measures to correct any valve installed on an onshore pipeline under § 192.179(e) or (f) or § 192.634 that is indicated to be inoperable or unable to maintain effective shut-off as follows:

(1) Repair or replace the valve as soon as practicable but no later than 12 months after finding that the valve is inoperable or unable to maintain effective shut-off. An operator must request an extension from PHMSA in accordance with § 192.18 if repair or replacement of a valve within 12 months would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible; and

(2) Designate an alternative valve acting as an RMV within 7 calendar days of the finding while repairs are being made and document an interim response plan to maintain safety. Such valves are not required to comply with the valve spacing requirements of this part.

(f) An operator using an ASV as an RMV, in accordance with §§ 192.3, 192.179, 192.634, and 192.636, must document and confirm the ASV shut-in pressures, in accordance with § 192.636(f), on a calendar year basis not to exceed 15 months. ASV shut-in set pressures must be proven and reset individually at each ASV, as required, on a calendar year basis not to exceed 15 months.
