
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart O - Gas Transmission Pipeline Integrity Management
####### § 192.911 What are the elements of an integrity management program?
######## see,see

An operator's initial integrity management program begins with a framework (§ 192.907) and evolves into a more detailed and comprehensive integrity management program, as information is gained and incorporated into the program. An operator must make continual improvements to its program. The initial program framework and subsequent program must, at minimum, contain the following elements. (When indicated, refer to ASME/ANSI B31.8S (incorporated by reference,§ 192.7) for more detailed information on the listed element.)

(a) An identification of all high consequence areas, in accordance with § 192.905.

(b) A baseline assessment plan meeting the requirements of § 192.919 and § 192.921.

(c) An identification of threats to each covered pipeline segment, which must include data integration and a risk assessment. An operator must use the threat identification and risk assessment to prioritize covered segments for assessment (§ 192.917) and to evaluate the merits of additional preventive and mitigative measures (§ 192.935) for each covered segment.

(d) A direct assessment plan, if applicable, meeting the requirements of § 192.923, and depending on the threat assessed, of §§ 192.925, 192.927, or 192.929.

(e) Provisions meeting the requirements of § 192.933 for remediating conditions found during an integrity assessment.

(f) A process for continual evaluation and assessment meeting the requirements of § 192.937.

(g) If applicable, a plan for confirmatory direct assessment meeting the requirements of § 192.931.

(h) Provisions meeting the requirements of § 192.935 for adding preventive and mitigative measures to protect the high consequence area.

(i) A performance plan as outlined in ASME/ANSI B31.8S, section 9 that includes performance measures meeting the requirements of § 192.945.

(j) Record keeping provisions meeting the requirements of § 192.947.

(k) A management of change process as outlined in ASME/ANSI B31.8S, section 11.

(l) A quality assurance process as outlined in ASME/ANSI B31.8S, section 12.

(m) A communication plan that includes the elements of ASME/ANSI B31.8S, section 10, and that includes procedures for addressing safety concerns raised by-

(1) OPS; and

(2) A State or local pipeline safety authority when a covered segment is located in a State where OPS has an interstate agent agreement.

(n) Procedures for providing (when requested), by electronic or other means, a copy of the operator's risk analysis or integrity management program to-

(1) OPS; and

(2) A State or local pipeline safety authority when a covered segment is located in a State where OPS has an interstate agent agreement.

(o) Procedures for ensuring that each integrity assessment is being conducted in a manner that minimizes environmental and safety risks.
