
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 192 - TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL AND OTHER GAS BY PIPELINE: MINIMUM FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Appendix D to Part 192 - Criteria for Cathodic Protection and Determination of Measurements
####### Criteria for cathodic protection-,Steel, cast iron, and ductile iron structures.

I.A.(1) A negative (cathodic) voltage of at least 0.85 volt, with reference to a saturated copper-copper sulfate half cell. Determination of this voltage must be made with the protective current applied, and in accordance with sections II and IV of this appendix.

(2) A negative (cathodic) voltage shift of at least 300 millivolts. Determination of this voltage shift must be made with the protective current applied, and in accordance with sections II and IV of this appendix. This criterion of voltage shift applies to structures not in contact with metals of different anodic potentials.

(3) A minimum negative (cathodic) polarization voltage shift of 100 millivolts. This polarization voltage shift must be determined in accordance with sections III and IV of this appendix.

(4) A voltage at least as negative (cathodic) as that originally established at the beginning of the Tafel segment of the E-log-I curve. This voltage must be measured in accordance with section IV of this appendix.

(5) A net protective current from the electrolyte into the structure surface as measured by an earth current technique applied at predetermined current discharge (anodic) points of the structure.
