
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 193 - LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS FACILITIES: FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart F - Operations
####### ยง 193.2503 Operating procedures.

Each operator shall follow one or more manuals of written procedures to provide safety in normal operation and in responding to an abnormal operation that would affect safety. The procedures must include provisions for:

(a) Monitoring components or buildings according to the requirements of ยง 193.2507.

(b) Startup and shutdown, including for initial startup, performance testing to demonstrate that components will operate satisfactory in service.

(c) Recognizing abnormal operating conditions.

(d) Purging and inerting components according to the requirements of ยง 193.2517.

(e) In the case of vaporization, maintaining the vaporization rate, temperature and pressure so that the resultant gas is within limits established for the vaporizer and the downstream piping.

(f) In the case of liquefaction, maintaining temperatures, pressures, pressure differentials and flow rates, as applicable, within their design limits for:

(1) Boilers;

(2) Turbines and other prime movers;

(3) Pumps, compressors, and expanders;

(4) Purification and regeneration equipment; and

(5) Equipment within cold boxes.

(g) Cooldown of components according to the requirements of ยง 193.2505.
