
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 193 - LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS FACILITIES: FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS
###### Subpart G - Maintenance
####### ยง 193.2635 Monitoring corrosion control.

Corrosion protection provided as required by this subpart must be periodically monitored to give early recognition of ineffective corrosion protection, including the following, as applicable:

(a) Each buried or submerged component under cathodic protection must be tested at least once each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding 15 months, to determine whether the cathodic protection meets the requirements of ยง 192.463 of this chapter.

(b) Each cathodic protection rectifier or other impressed current power source must be inspected at least 6 times each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding 2months, to ensure that it is operating properly.

(c) Each reverse current switch, each diode, and each interference bond whose failure would jeopardize component protection must be electrically checked for proper performance at least 6 times each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding 2months. Each other interference bond must be checked at least once each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding 15 months.

(d) Each component that is protected from atmospheric corrosion must be inspected at intervals not exceeding 3 years.

(e) If a component is protected from internal corrosion, monitoring devices designed to detect internal corrosion, such as coupons or probes, must be located where corrosion is most likely to occur. However, monitoring is not required for corrosion resistant materials if the operator can demonstrate that the component will not be adversely affected by internal corrosion during its service life. Internal corrosion control monitoring devices must be checked at least two times each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding 7months.
