
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 194 - RESPONSE PLANS FOR ONSHORE OIL PIPELINES
###### Subpart B - Response Plans
####### ยง 194.119 Submission and approval procedures.

(a) Each operator shall submit two copies of the response plan required by this part. Copies of the response plan shall be submitted to: Office of Pipeline Safety, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation, PHP 80, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001. Note: Submission of plans in electronic format is preferred.

(b) If PHMSA determines that a response plan requiring approval does not meet all the requirements of this part, PHMSA will notify the operator of any alleged deficiencies, and to provide the operator an opportunity to respond, including the opportunity for an informal conference, on any proposed plan revisions and an opportunity to correct any deficiencies.

(c) An operator who disagrees with the PHMSA determination that a plan contains alleged deficiencies may petition PHMSA for reconsideration within 30 days from the date of receipt of PHMSA's notice. After considering all relevant material presented in writing or at an informal conference, PHMSA will notify the operator of its final decision. The operator must comply with the final decision within 30 days of issuance unless PHMSA allows additional time.

(d) For response zones of pipelines described in ยง 194.103(c) OPS will approve the response plan if OPS determines that the response plan meets all requirements of this part. OPS may consult with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) if a Federal on-scene coordinator (FOSC) has concerns about the operator's ability to respond to a worst case discharge.

(e) If OPS has not approved a response plan for a pipeline described in ยง 194.103(c), the operator may submit a certification to OPS that the operator has obtained, through contract or other approved means, the necessary personnel and equipment to respond, to the maximum extent practicable, to a worst case discharge or a substantial threat of such a discharge. The certificate must be signed by the qualified individual or an appropriate corporate officer.

(f) If OPS receives a request from a FOSC to review a response plan, OPS may require an operator to give a copy of the response plan to the FOSC. OPS may consider FOSC comments on response techniques, protecting fish, wildlife and sensitive environments, and on consistency with the ACP. OPS remains the approving authority for the response plan.
