
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 194 - RESPONSE PLANS FOR ONSHORE OIL PIPELINES
###### Subpart B - Response Plans
####### ยง 194.121 Response plan review and update procedures.

(a) Each operator shall update its response plan to address new or different operating conditions or information. In addition, each operator shall review its response plan in full at least every 5 years from the date of the last submission or the last approval as follows:

(1) For substantial harm plans, an operator shall resubmit its response plan to OPS every 5 years from the last submission date.

(2) For significant and substantial harm plans, an operator shall resubmit every 5 years from the last approval date.

(b) If a new or different operating condition or information would substantially affect the implementation of a response plan, the operator must immediately modify its response plan to address such a change and, within 30 days of making such a change, submit the change to PHMSA. Examples of changes in operating conditions that would cause a significant change to an operator's response plan are:

(1) An extension of the existing pipeline or construction of a new pipeline in a response zone not covered by the previously approved plan;

(2) Relocation or replacement of the pipeline in a way that substantially affects the information included in the response plan, such as a change to the worst case discharge volume;

(3) The type of oil transported, if the type affects the required response resources, such as a change from crude oil to gasoline;

(4) The name of the oil spill removal organization;

(5) Emergency response procedures;

(6) The qualified individual;

(7) A change in the NCP or an ACP that has significant impact on the equipment appropriate for response activities; and

(8) Any other information relating to circumstances that may affect full implementation of the plan.

(c) If PHMSA determines that a change to a response plan does not meet the requirements of this part, PHMSA will notify the operator of any alleged deficiencies, and provide the operator an opportunity to respond, including an opportunity for an informal conference, to any proposed plan revisions and an opportunity to correct any deficiencies.

(d) An operator who disagrees with a determination that proposed revisions to a plan are deficient may petition PHMSA for reconsideration, within 30 days from the date of receipt of PHMSA's notice. After considering all relevant material presented in writing or at the conference, PHMSA will notify the operator of its final decision. The operator must comply with the final decision within 30 days of issuance unless PHMSA allows additional time.
