
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart A - General
####### § 195.5 Conversion to service subject to this part.
######## see

(i) Testing the pipeline in accordance with ASME/ANSI B31.8 (incorporated by reference,§ 195.3), Appendix N, to produce a stress equal to the yield strength; and

(ii) Applying, to not more than 80 percent of the first pressure that produces a yielding, the design factor F in § 195.106(a) and the appropriate factors in § 195.106(e).

(2) The pipeline right-of-way, all aboveground segments of the pipeline, and appropriately selected underground segments must be visually inspected for physical defects and operating conditions which reasonably could be expected to impair the strength or tightness of the pipeline.

(3) All known unsafe defects and conditions must be corrected in accordance with this part.

(4) The pipeline must be tested in accordance with subpart E of this part to substantiate the maximum operating pressure permitted by § 195.406.

(b) A pipeline that qualifies for use under this section need not comply with the corrosion control requirements of subpart H of this part until 12 months after it is placed into service, notwithstanding any previous deadlines for compliance.

(c) Each operator must keep for the life of the pipeline a record of the investigations, tests, repairs, replacements, and alterations made under the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) An operator converting a pipeline from service not previously covered by this part must notify PHMSA 60 days before the conversion occurs as required by § 195.64.
