
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart A - General
####### § 195.11 What is a regulated rural gathering line and what requirements apply?
######## Safety requirements.

(b)Each operator must prepare, follow, and maintain written procedures to carry out the requirements of this section. Except for the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(9) and (b)(10) of this section, the safety requirements apply to all materials of construction.

(1) Identify all segments of pipeline meeting the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section before April 3, 2009.

(2) For steel pipelines contracted, replaced, relocated, or otherwise changed after July 3, 2009:

(i) Design, install, construct, initially inspect, and initially test the pipeline in compliance with this part, unless the pipeline is converted under § 195.5.

(ii) Except for pipelines subject to § 195.260(e), such pipelines are not subject to the rupture-mitigation valve (RMV) and alternative equivalent technology requirements in §§ 195.258(c) and (d), 195.418, and 195.419.

(3) For non-steel pipelines constructed after July 3, 2009, notify the Administrator according to § 195.8.

(4) Beginning no later than January 3, 2009, comply with the reporting requirements in subpart B of this part.

(5) Establish the maximum operating pressure of the pipeline according to § 195.406 before transportation begins, or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009.

(6) Install line markers according to § 195.410 before transportation begins, or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009. Continue to maintain line markers in compliance with § 195.410.

(7) Establish a continuing public education program in compliance with § 195.440 before transportation begins, or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before January 3, 2010. Continue to carry out such program in compliance with § 195.440.

(8) Establish a damage prevention program in compliance with § 195.442 before transportation begins, or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009. Continue to carry out such program in compliance with § 195.442.

(9) For steel pipelines, comply with subpart H of this part, except corrosion control is not required for pipelines existing on July 3, 2008 before July 3, 2011.

(10) For steel pipelines, establish and follow a comprehensive and effective program to continuously identify operating conditions that could contribute to internal corrosion. The program must include measures to prevent and mitigate internal corrosion, such as cleaning the pipeline and using inhibitors. This program must be established before transportation begins or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009.

(11) To comply with the Operator Qualification program requirements in subpart G of this part, have a written description of the processes used to carry out the requirements in § 195.505 to determine the qualification of persons performing operations and maintenance tasks. These processes must be established before transportation begins or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009.
