
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart A - General
####### § 195.12 What requirements apply to low-stress pipelines in rural areas?
######## Applicable requirements and deadlines for compliance.

(c)An operator must comply with the following compliance dates depending on the category of pipeline determined by the criteria in paragraph (b):

(1) An operator of a Category 1 pipeline must:

(i) Identify all segments of pipeline meeting the criteria in paragraph (b)(1) of this Section before April 3, 2009.

(ii) Beginning no later than January 3, 2009, comply with the reporting requirements of Subpart B for the identified segments.

(iii) IM requirements-

(A) Establish a written program that complies with § 195.452 before July 3, 2009, to assure the integrity of the pipeline segments. Continue to carry out such program in compliance with § 195.452.

(B) An operator may conduct a determination per § 195.452(a) in lieu of the one-half mile buffer.

(C) Complete the baseline assessment of all segments in accordance with § 195.452(c) before July 3, 2015, and complete at least 50-percent of the assessments, beginning with the highest risk pipe, before January 3, 2012.

(iv) Comply with all other safety requirements of this Part, except Subpart H, before July 3, 2009. Comply with the requirements of Subpart H before July 3, 2011.

(2) An operator of a Category 2 pipeline must:

(i) Identify all segments of pipeline meeting the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this Section before July 1, 2012.

(ii) Beginning no later than January 3, 2009, comply with the reporting requirements of Subpart B for the identified segments.

(iii) IM-

(A) Establish a written IM program that complies with § 195.452 before October 1, 2012 to assure the integrity of the pipeline segments. Continue to carry out such program in compliance with § 195.452.

(B) An operator may conduct a determination per § 195.452(a) in lieu of the one-half mile buffer.

(C) Complete the baseline assessment of all segments in accordance with § 195.452(c) before October 1, 2016 and complete at least 50-percent of the assessments, beginning with the highest risk pipe, before April 1, 2014.

(iv) Comply with all other safety requirements of this Part, except Subpart H, before October 1, 2012. Comply with Subpart H of this Part before October 1, 2014.

(3) An operator of a Category 3 pipeline must:

(i) Identify all segments of pipeline meeting the criteria in paragraph (b)(3) of this Section before July 1, 2012.

(ii) Beginning no later than January 3, 2009, comply with the reporting requirements of Subpart B for the identified segments.

(A)(iii) Comply with all safety requirements of this Part, except the requirements in § 195.452, Subpart B, and the requirements in Subpart H, before October 1, 2012. Comply with Subpart H of this Part before October 1, 2014.
