
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart D - Construction
####### ยง 195.234 Welds: Nondestructive testing.

(a) A weld may be nondestructively tested by any process that will clearly indicate any defects that may affect the integrity of the weld.

(b) Any nondestructive testing of welds must be performed-

(1) In accordance with a written set of procedures for nondestructive testing; and

(2) With personnel that have been trained in the established procedures and in the use of the equipment employed in the testing.

(c) Procedures for the proper interpretation of each weld inspection must be established to ensure the acceptability of the weld under ยง 195.228.

(d) During construction, at least 10 percent of the girth welds made by each welder and welding operator during each welding day must be nondestructively tested over the entire circumference of the weld.

(e) All girth welds installed each day in the following locations must be nondestructively tested over their entire circumference, except that when nondestructive testing is impracticable for a girth weld, it need not be tested if the number of girth welds for which testing is impracticable does not exceed 10 percent of the girth welds installed that day:

(1) At any onshore location where a loss of hazardous liquid could reasonably be expected to pollute any stream, river, lake, reservoir, or other body of water, and any offshore area;

(2) Within railroad or public road rights-of-way;

(3) At overhead road crossings and within tunnels;

(4) Within the limits of any incorporated subdivision of a State government; and

(5) Within populated areas, including, but not limited to, residential subdivisions, shopping centers, schools, designated commercial areas, industrial facilities, public institutions, and places of public assembly.

(f) When installing used pipe, 100 percent of the old girth welds must be nondestructively tested.

(g) At pipeline tie-ins, including tie-ins of replacement sections, 100 percent of the girth welds must be nondestructively tested.
