
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart D - Construction
####### § 195.258 Valves: General.

(a) Each valve must be installed in a location that is accessible to authorized employees and that is protected from damage or tampering.

(b) Each submerged valve located offshore or in inland navigable waters must be marked, or located by conventional survey techniques, to facilitate quick location when operation of the valve is required.

(c) For all onshore hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide pipeline segments with diameters greater than or equal to 6 inches that are constructed after April 10, 2023, the operator must install rupture-mitigation valves (RMV) or an alternative equivalent technology whenever a valve must be installed to meet the appropriate valve spacing requirements of this section and § 195.260. An operator using alternative equivalent technology must notify PHMSA in accordance with the procedure in paragraph (e) of this section. All RMVs and alternative equivalent technology installed as required by this section must meet the requirements of § 195.419. An operator may request an extension of the installation compliance deadline requirements of this paragraph if it can demonstrate to PHMSA, in accordance with the notification procedures in § 195.18, that those installation deadline requirements would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible for a particular new pipeline.

(d) For all entirely replaced onshore hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide pipeline segments with diameters greater than or equal to 6 inches that have been replaced after April 10, 2023, the operator must install RMVs or an alternative equivalent technology whenever a valve must be installed to meet the appropriate valve spacing requirements of this section. An operator using alternative equivalent technology must notify PHMSA in accordance with the procedure in paragraph (e) of this section. All valves installed as required by this section must meet the requirements of § 195.419. The requirements of this paragraph (d) apply when the applicable pipeline replacement project involves a valve, either through addition, replacement, or removal. An operator may request an extension of the installation compliance deadline requirements of this paragraph if it can demonstrate to PHMSA, in accordance with the notification procedures in § 195.18, that those installation deadline requirements would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible for a particular pipeline replacement project.

(e) If an operator elects to use alternative equivalent technology in accordance with paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, the operator must notify PHMSA in accordance with § 195.18. The operator must include a technical and safety evaluation in its notice to PHMSA. Valves that are installed as alternative equivalent technology must comply with §§ 195.418, 195.419, and 195.420. An operator requesting use of manual valves as an alternative equivalent technology must also include within the notification submitted to PHMSA a demonstration that installation of an RMV as otherwise required would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible. An operator may use a manual compressor station valve at a continuously manned station as an alternative equivalent technology. Such a valve used as an alternative equivalent technology would not require a notification to PHMSA in accordance with § 195.18, but it must comply with §§ 195.419 and 195.420.
