
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart E - Pressure Testing
####### ยง 195.303 Risk-based alternative to pressure testing older hazardous liquid and carbon dioxide pipelines.

(a) An operator may elect to follow a program for testing a pipeline on risk-based criteria as an alternative to the pressure testing in ยง 195.302(b)(1)(i)-(iii) and ยง 195.302(b)(2)(i) of this subpart. Appendix B provides guidance on how this program will work. An operator electing such a program shall assign a risk classification to each pipeline segment according to the indicators described in paragraph (b) of this section as follows:

(1) Risk Classification A if the location indicator is ranked as low or medium risk, the product and volume indicators are ranked as low risk, and the probability of failure indicator is ranked as low risk;

(2) Risk Classification C if the location indicator is ranked as high risk; or

(3) Risk Classification B.

(b) An operator shall evaluate each pipeline segment in the program according to the following indicators of risk:

(1) The location indicator is-

(i) High risk if an area is non-rural or environmentally sensitive; or

(ii) Medium risk; or

(iii) Low risk if an area is not high or medium risk.

(2) The product indicator is

(i) High risk if the product transported is highly toxic or is both highly volatile and flammable;

(ii) Medium risk if the product transported is flammable with a flashpoint of less than 100 &#xB0;F, but not highly volatile; or

(iii) Low risk if the product transported is not high or medium risk.

(3) The volume indicator is-

(i) High risk if the line is at least 18 inches in nominal diameter;

(ii) Medium risk if the line is at least 10 inches, but less than 18 inches, in nominal diameter; or

(iii) Low risk if the line is not high or medium risk.

(4) The probability of failure indicator is-

(i) High risk if the segment has experienced more than three failures in the last 10 years due to time-dependent defects (e.g., corrosion, gouges, or problems developed during manufacture, construction or operation, etc.); or

(ii) Low risk if the segment has experienced three failures or less in the last 10 years due to time-dependent defects.

(c) The program under paragraph (a) of this section shall provide for pressure testing for a segment constructed of electric resistance-welded (ERW) pipe and lapwelded pipe manufactured prior to 1970 susceptible to longitudinal seam failures as determined through paragraph (d) of this section. The timing of such pressure test may be determined based on risk classifications discussed under paragraph (b) of this section. For other segments, the program may provide for use of a magnetic flux leakage or ultrasonic internal inspection survey as an alternative to pressure testing and, in the case of such segments in Risk Classification A, may provide for no additional measures under this subpart.

(d) All pre-1970 ERW pipe and lapwelded pipe is deemed susceptible to longitudinal seam failures unless an engineering analysis shows otherwise. In conducting an engineering analysis an operator must consider the seam-related leak history of the pipe and pipe manufacturing information as available, which may include the pipe steel's mechanical properties, including fracture toughness; the manufacturing process and controls related to seam properties, including whether the ERW process was high-frequency or low-frequency, whether the weld seam was heat treated, whether the seam was inspected, the test pressure and duration during mill hydrotest; the quality control of the steel-making process; and other factors pertinent to seam properties and quality.

(e) Pressure testing done under this section must be conducted in accordance with this subpart. Except for segments in Risk Classification B which are not constructed with pre-1970 ERW pipe, water must be the test medium.

(f) An operator electing to follow a program under paragraph (a) must develop plans that include the method of testing and a schedule for the testing by December 7, 1998. The compliance deadlines for completion of testing are as shown in the table below:

(g) An operator must review the risk classifications for those pipeline segments which have not yet been tested under paragraph (a) of this section or otherwise inspected under paragraph (c) of this section at intervals not to exceed 15 months. If the risk classification of an untested or uninspected segment changes, an operator must take appropriate action within two years, or establish the maximum operating pressure under ยง 195.406(a)(5).

(h) An operator must maintain records establishing compliance with this section, including records verifying the risk classifications, the plans and schedule for testing, the conduct of the testing, and the review of the risk classifications.

(i) An operator may discontinue a program under this section only after written notification to the Administrator and approval, if needed, of a schedule for pressure testing.
