
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart F - Operation and Maintenance
####### Pipeline Integrity Management
######## § 195.452 Pipeline integrity management in high consequence areas.
######### Emergency Flow Restricting Devices (EFRD).

(4)If an operator determines that an EFRD is needed on a pipeline segment that is located in, or which could affect, a high-consequence area (HCA) in the event of a hazardous liquid pipeline release, an operator must install the EFRD. In making this determination, an operator must, at least, evaluate the following factors-the swiftness of leak detection and pipeline shutdown capabilities, the type of commodity carried, the rate of potential leakage, the volume that can be released, topography or pipeline profile, the potential for ignition, proximity to power sources, location of nearest response personnel, specific terrain within the HCA or between the pipeline segment and the HCA it could affect, and benefits expected by reducing the spill size. An RMV installed under this paragraph must meet all of the other applicable requirements in this part.

(i) Where EFRDs are installed on pipeline segments in HCAs and that could affect HCAs with diameters of 6 inches or greater and that are placed into service or that have had 2 or more miles of pipe replaced within 5 contiguous miles within a 24-month period after April 10, 2023, the location, installation, actuation, operation, and maintenance of such EFRDs (including valve actuators, personnel response, operational control centers, supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA), communications, and procedures) must meet the design, operation, testing, maintenance, and rupture-mitigation requirements of §§ 195.258, 195.260, 195.402, 195.418, 195.419, and 195.420.

(ii) The EFRD analysis and assessments specified in this paragraph (i)(4) must be completed prior to placing into service all onshore pipelines with diameters of 6 inches or greater and that are constructed or that have had 2 or more miles of pipe within any 5 contiguous miles within any 24-month period replaced after April 10, 2023. Implementation of EFRD findings for RMVs must meet § 195.418.

(iii) An operator may request an exemption from the compliance deadline requirements of this section if it can demonstrate to PHMSA, in accordance with the notification procedures in § 195.18, that installing an EFRD by that compliance deadline would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible.
