
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart F - Operation and Maintenance
####### ยง 195.416 Pipeline assessments.
######## Method.

(c)Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, an operator must perform the integrity assessment for the range of relevant threats to the pipeline segment by the use of an appropriate in-line inspection tool(s). When performing an assessment using an in-line inspection tool, an operator must comply with ยง 195.591. An operator must explicitly consider uncertainties in reported results (including tool tolerance, anomaly findings, and unity chart plots or other equivalent methods for determining uncertainties) in identifying anomalies. If this is impracticable based on operational limits, including operating pressure, low flow, and pipeline length or availability of in-line inspection tool technology for the pipe diameter, then the operator must perform the assessment using the appropriate method(s) in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section for the range of relevant threats being assessed. The methods an operator selects to assess low-frequency electric resistance welded pipe, pipe with a seam factor less than 1.0 as defined in ยง 195.106(e) or lap-welded pipe susceptible to longitudinal seam failure must be capable of assessing seam integrity, cracking, and of detecting corrosion and deformation anomalies. The following alternative assessment methods may be used as specified in this paragraph:

(1) A pressure test conducted in accordance with subpart E of this part;

(2) External corrosion direct assessment in accordance with ยง 195.588; or

(3) Other technology in accordance with paragraph (d).
