
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart F - Operation and Maintenance
####### ยง 195.418 Valves: Onshore valve shut-off for rupture mitigation.
######## Shut-off Segment.

(1)For purposes of this section, a "shut-off segment" means the segment of pipeline located between the upstream valve closest to the upstream endpoint of the replaced pipeline segment in the HCA or the pipeline segment that could affect an HCA and the downstream valve closest to the downstream endpoint of the replaced pipeline segment of the HCA or the pipeline segment that could affect an HCA so that the entirety of the segment that could affect the HCA or the segment within the HCA is between at least two RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies. If any crossover or lateral pipe for commodity receipts or deliveries connects to the replaced segment between the upstream and downstream valves, the shut-off segment also extends to a valve on the crossover connection(s) or lateral(s), such that, when all valves are closed, there is no flow path for commodity to be transported to the rupture site (except for residual liquids already in the shut-off segment). Multiple segments that could affect HCAs or are in HCAs may be contained within a single shut-off segment. All entirely replaced onshore hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide pipeline segments, as defined in ยง 195.2, that could affect or are in an HCA must include a minimum of one valve that meets the requirements of this section and section 195.419. The operator is not required to select the closest valve to the shut-off segment as the RMV or alternative equivalent technology. An operator may use a manual pump station valve at a continuously manned station as an alternative equivalent technology. Such a manual valve used as an alternative equivalent technology would not require a notification to PHMSA in accordance with ยง 195.18.
