
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Subpart F - Operation and Maintenance
####### § 195.420 Valve maintenance.
######## i.e.,

(e) For each alternative equivalent technology installed under § 195.258(c) or (d) or § 195.418(a) that is manually or locally operated (not an RMV, as that term is defined in § 195.2):

(1) Operators must achieve a response time of 30 minutes or less, as required by § 195.419(b), through an initial drill and through periodic validation as required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section. An operator must review each phase of the drill response and document the results to validate the total response time, including the identification of a rupture, and valve shut-off time as being less than or equal to 30 minutes after rupture identification.

(2) Within each pipeline system, and within each operating or maintenance field work unit, operators must randomly select an authorized rupture-mitigation alternative equivalent technology for an annual 30-minute-total response time validation drill simulating worst-case conditions for that location to ensure compliance with § 195.419. Operators are not required to close the alternative equivalent technology fully during the drill; a minimum 25 percent valve closure is sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the drill requirements unless the operator has operational information that requires an additional closure percentage for maintaining reliability. The response drill must occur at least once each calendar year, at intervals not to exceed 15 months. Operators must include in their written procedures the method they use to randomly select which alternative equivalent technology is tested in accordance with this paragraph.

(3) If the 30-minute-maximum response time cannot be achieved in the drill, the operator must revise response efforts to achieve compliance with § 195.419 no later than 12 months after the drill. Alternative valve shut-off measures must be in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section within 7 days of the drill.

(4) Based on the results of the response-time drills, the operator must include lessons learned in:

(i) Training and qualifications programs;

(ii) Design, construction, testing, maintenance, operating, and emergency procedures manuals; and

(iii) Any other areas identified by the operator as needing improvement.

(f) Each operator must implement remedial measures as follows to correct any valve installed on an onshore pipeline in accordance with § 195.258(c), or an RMV or alternative equivalent technology installed in accordance with § 195.418, that is indicated to be inoperable or unable to maintain effective shut-off:

(1) Repair or replace the valve as soon as practicable but no later than 12 months after finding that the valve is inoperable or unable to maintain shut-off. An operator may request an extension of the compliance deadline requirements of this section if it can demonstrate to PHMSA, in accordance with the notification procedures in § 195.18, that repairing or replacing a valve within 12 months would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible; and

(2) Designate an alternative compliant valve within 7 calendar days of the finding while repairs are being made and document an interim response plan to maintain safety. Alternative compliant valves are not required to comply with valve spacing requirements of this part.

(g) An operator using an ASV as an RMV, in accordance with §§ 195.2, 195.260, 195.418, and 195.419, must document, in accordance with § 195.419(f), and confirm the ASV shut-in pressures on a calendar year basis not to exceed 15 months. ASV shut-in set pressures must be proven and reset individually at each ASV, as required by § 195.419(f), at least each calendar year, but at intervals not to exceed 15 months.
