
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION AND DELEGATION OF POWERS AND DUTIES
#### Subpart B - Office of the Secretary
##### OST Officials
###### ยง 1.21 Reservations of Authority to the Secretary of Transportation.
####### Personnel.

(4)(i) Recommendations to the Office of Personnel Management regarding the allocation of a position to the Senior Executive Service (SES) or Senior Level (SL), or Scientific and Professional Positions (ST) (5 U.S.C. 5108).

(ii) Recommendations to the Office of Personnel Management of approval of the qualifications of any candidate for a position in the SES or SL.

(iii) Recommendations to the Office of Personnel Management of a Lump-Sum Incentive Award in Excess of $10,000 (5 U.S.C. 4502).

(iv) Approval of the following actions relating to Schedules A, B, C, or D (5 CFR part 213) and noncareer executive assignment positions or incumbents, except for actions under Schedules A and B limited to one year or less at grade GS-9 or lower, or an equivalent level:

(A) Establishment or abolition of positions;

(B) Hires;

(C) Promotions other than quality and periodic within-grade promotions;

(D) Transfer of personnel to Schedule A, B, C, or D positions or non-career executive assignment positions, either permanently or on detail; and

(E) Transfer of personnel from Schedule A, B, C, or D or non-career executive assignment positions to career Civil Service positions.

(v) Approval of employment of experts or consultants.

(vi) Authority to determine the maximum limit of age for appointment of air traffic controllers as provided by 5 U.S.C. 3307(b).

(vii) Authority to develop, coordinate, and issue wage schedules under the Federal Wage system.
