
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 195 - TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS BY PIPELINE
###### Appendix C to Part 195 - Guidance for Implementation of an Integrity Management Program
####### http://www.bts.gov/gis/ntatlas/networks.html.

(3) The Bureau of Transportation Statistics database that includes commercially navigable waterways and non-commercially navigable waterways. The database can be downloaded from the BTS website at

B. The rule requires an operator to include a process in its program for identifying which pipeline segments could affect a high consequence area and to take measures to prevent and mitigate the consequences of a pipeline failure that could affect a high consequence area. (See §§ 195.452 (f) and (i).) Thus, an operator will need to consider how each pipeline segment could affect a high consequence area. The primary source for the listed risk factors is a US DOT study on instrumented Internal Inspection devices (November 1992). Other sources include the National Transportation Safety Board, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Technical Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Standards Committee. The following list provides guidance to an operator on both the mandatory and additional factors:

(1) Terrain surrounding the pipeline. An operator should consider the contour of the land profile and if it could allow the liquid from a release to enter a high consequence area. An operator can get this information from topographical maps such as U.S. Geological Survey quadrangle maps.

(2) Drainage systems such as small streams and other smaller waterways that could serve as a conduit to a high consequence area.

(3) Crossing of farm tile fields. An operator should consider the possibility of a spillage in the field following the drain tile into a waterway.

(4) Crossing of roadways with ditches along the side. The ditches could carry a spillage to a waterway.

(5) The nature and characteristics of the product the pipeline is transporting (refined products, crude oils, highly volatile liquids, etc.) Highly volatile liquids becomes gaseous when exposed to the atmosphere. A spillage could create a vapor cloud that could settle into the lower elevation of the ground profile.

(6) Physical support of the pipeline segment such as by a cable suspension bridge. An operator should look for stress indicators on the pipeline (strained supports, inadequate support at towers), atmospheric corrosion, vandalism, and other obvious signs of improper maintenance.

(7) Operating conditions of the pipeline (pressure, flow rate, etc.). Exposure of the pipeline to an operating pressure exceeding the established maximum operating pressure.

(8) The hydraulic gradient of the pipeline.

(9) The diameter of the pipeline, the potential release volume, and the distance between the isolation points.

(10) Potential physical pathways between the pipeline and the high consequence area.

(11) Response capability (time to respond, nature of response).

(12) Potential natural forces inherent in the area (flood zones, earthquakes, subsidence areas, etc.)

II. Risk factors for establishing frequency of assessment.

A. By assigning weights or values to the risk factors, and using the risk indicator tables, an operator can determine the priority for assessing pipeline segments, beginning with those segments that are of highest risk, that have not previously been assessed. This list provides some guidance on some of the risk factors to consider (see § 195.452(e)). An operator should also develop factors specific to each pipeline segment it is assessing, including:

(1) Populated areas, unusually sensitive environmental areas, National Fish Hatcheries, commercially navigable waters, areas where people congregate.

(2) Results from previous testing/inspection. (See § 195.452(h).)

(3) Leak History. (See leak history risk table.)

(4) Known corrosion or condition of pipeline. (See § 195.452(g).)

(5) Cathodic protection history.

(6) Type and quality of pipe coating (disbonded coating results in corrosion).

(7) Age of pipe (older pipe shows more corrosion-may be uncoated or have an ineffective coating) and type of pipe seam. (See Age of Pipe risk table.)

(8) Product transported (highly volatile, highly flammable and toxic liquids present a greater threat for both people and the environment) (see Product transported risk table.)

(9) Pipe wall thickness (thicker walls give a better safety margin)

(10) Size of pipe (higher volume release if the pipe ruptures).

(11) Location related to potential ground movement (e.g., seismic faults, rock quarries, and coal mines); climatic (permafrost causes settlement-Alaska); geologic (landslides or subsidence).

(12) Security of throughput (effects on customers if there is failure requiring shutdown).

(13) Time since the last internal inspection/pressure testing.

(14) With respect to previously discovered defects/anomalies, the type, growth rate, and size.

(15) Operating stress levels in the pipeline.

(16) Location of the pipeline segment as it relates to the ability of the operator to detect and respond to a leak. (e.g., pipelines deep underground, or in locations that make leak detection difficult without specific sectional monitoring and/or significantly impede access for spill response or any other purpose).

(17) Physical support of the segment such as by a cable suspension bridge.

(18) Non-standard or other than recognized industry practice on pipeline installation (e.g., horizontal directional drilling).
