
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 198 - REGULATIONS FOR GRANTS TO AID STATE PIPELINE SAFETY PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - Adoption of One-Call Damage Prevention Program
####### ยง 198.39 Qualifications for operation of one-call notification system.

A one-call notification system qualifies to operate under this subpart if it complies with the following:

(a) It is operated by one or more of the following:

(1) A person who operates underground pipeline facilities or other underground facilities.

(2) A private contractor.

(3) A State or local government agency.

(4) A person who is otherwise eligible under State law to operate a one-call notification system.

(b) It receives and records information from excavators about intended excavation activities.

(c) It promptly transmits to the appropriate operators of underground pipeline facilities the information received from excavators about intended excavation activities.

(d) It maintains a record of each notice of intent to engage in an excavation activity for the minimum time set by the State or, in the absence of such time, for the time specified in the applicable State statute of limitations on tort actions.

(e) It tells persons giving notice of an intent to engage in an excavation activity the names of participating operators of underground pipeline facilities to whom the notice will be transmitted.
