
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 199 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
###### Subpart B - Drug Testing
####### ยง 199.117 Recordkeeping.

(a) Each operator shall keep the following records for the periods specified and permit access to the records as provided by paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) Records that demonstrate the collection process conforms to this part must be kept for at least 3 years.

(2) Records of employee drug test that indicate a verified positive result, records that demonstrate compliance with the recommendations of a substance abuse professional, and MIS annual report data shall be maintained for a minimum of five years.

(3) Records of employee drug test results that show employees passed a drug test must be kept for at least 1 year.

(4) Records confirming that supervisors and employees have been trained as required by this part must be kept for at least 3 years.

(5) Records of decisions not to administer post-accident employee drug tests must be kept for at least 3 years.

(b) Information regarding an individual's drug testing results or rehabilitation must be released upon the written consent of the individual and as provided by DOT Procedures. Statistical data related to drug testing and rehabilitation that is not name-specific and training records must be made available to the Administrator or the representative of a state agency upon request.
