
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 199 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
###### Subpart C - Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program
####### ยง 199.225 Alcohol tests required.
######## Reasonable suspicion testing.

(b)(1) Each operator shall require a covered employee to submit to an alcohol test when the operator has reasonable suspicion to believe that the employee has violated the prohibitions in this subpart.

(2) The operator's determination that reasonable suspicion exists to require the covered employee to undergo an alcohol test shall be based on specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech, or body odors of the employee. The required observations shall be made by a supervisor who is trained in detecting the symptoms of alcohol misuse. The supervisor who makes the determination that reasonable suspicion exists shall not conduct the breath alcohol test on that employee.

(3) Alcohol testing is authorized by this section only if the observations required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section are made during, just preceding, or just after the period of the work day that the employee is required to be in compliance with this subpart. A covered employee may be directed by the operator to undergo reasonable suspicion testing for alcohol only while the employee is performing covered functions; just before the employee is to perform covered functions; or just after the employee has ceased performing covered functions.

(4)(i) If a test required by this section is not administered within 2 hours following the determination under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the operator shall prepare and maintain on file a record stating the reasons the test was not promptly administered. If a test required by this section is not administered within 8 hours following the determination under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the operator shall cease attempts to administer an alcohol test and shall state in the record the reasons for not administering the test. Records shall be submitted to PHMSA upon request of the Administrator.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) Notwithstanding the absence of a reasonable suspicion alcohol test under this section, an operator shall not permit a covered employee to report for duty or remain on duty requiring the performance of covered functions while the employee is under the influence of or impaired by alcohol, as shown by the behavioral, speech, or performance indicators of alcohol misuse, nor shall an operator permit the covered employee to perform or continue to perform covered functions, until:

(A) An alcohol test is administered and the employee's alcohol concentration measures less than 0.02; or

(B) The start of the employee's next regularly scheduled duty period, but not less than 8 hours following the determination under paragraph (b)(2) of this section that there is reasonable suspicion to believe that the employee has violated the prohibitions in this subpart.

(iv) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii), no operator shall take any action under this subpart against a covered employee based solely on the employee's behavior and appearance in the absence of an alcohol test. This does not prohibit an operator with the authority independent of this subpart from taking any action otherwise consistent with law.
