
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 199 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
###### Subpart C - Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program
####### ยง 199.227 Retention of records.
######## Types of records.

(c)The following specific records shall be maintained:

(1) Records related to the collection process:

(i) Collection log books, if used.

(ii) Calibration documentation for evidential breath testing devices.

(iii) Documentation of breath alcohol technician training.

(iv) Documents generated in connection with decisions to administer reasonable suspicion alcohol tests.

(v) Documents generated in connection with decisions on post- accident tests.

(vi) Documents verifying existence of a medical explanation of the inability of a covered employee to provide adequate breath for testing.

(2) Records related to test results:

(i) The operator's copy of the alcohol test form, including the results of the test.

(ii) Documents related to the refusal of any covered employee to submit to an alcohol test required by this subpart.

(iii) Documents presented by a covered employee to dispute the result of an alcohol test administered under this subpart.

(3) Records related to other violations of this subpart.

(4) Records related to evaluations:

(i) Records pertaining to a determination by a substance abuse professional concerning a covered employee's need for assistance.

(ii) Records concerning a covered employee's compliance with the recommendations of the substance abuse professional.

(5) Record(s) related to the operator's MIS annual testing data.

(6) Records related to education and training:

(i) Materials on alcohol misuse awareness, including a copy of the operator's policy on alcohol misuse.

(ii) Documentation of compliance with the requirements of ยง 199.231.

(iii) Documentation of training provided to supervisors for the purpose of qualifying the supervisors to make a determination concerning the need for alcohol testing based on reasonable suspicion.

(iv) Certification that any training conducted under this subpart complies with the requirements for such training.
