
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 199 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
###### Subpart C - Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program
####### ยง 199.229 Reporting of alcohol testing results.
######## http://damis.dot.gov.,https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov/phmsaportallanding,informationresourcesmanager@dot.gov

(c) Each report required under this section must be submitted electronically atAn operator may obtain the user name and password needed for electronic reporting from the PHMSA Portal (). If electronic reporting imposes an undue burden and hardship, the operator may submit a written request for an alternative reporting method to the Information Resources Manager, Office of Pipeline Safety, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590. The request must describe the undue burden and hardship. PHMSA will review the request and may authorize, in writing, an alternative reporting method. An authorization will state the period for which it is valid, which may be indefinite. An operator must contact PHMSA at 202-366-8075, or electronically toto make arrangements for submitting a report that is due after a request for alternative reporting is submitted but before an authorization or denial is received.

(d) A service agent (e.g., Consortia/Third Party Administrator as defined in part 40) may prepare the MIS report on behalf of an operator. However, each report shall be certified by the operator's anti-drug manager or designated representative for accuracy and completeness.
