
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 199 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
###### Subpart C - Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program
####### ยง 199.239 Operator obligation to promulgate a policy on the misuse of alcohol.
######## Required content.

(b)The materials to be made available to covered employees shall include detailed discussion of at least the following:

(1) The identity of the person designated by the operator to answer covered employee questions about the materials.

(2) The categories of employees who are subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(3) Sufficient information about the covered functions performed by those employees to make clear what period of the work day the covered employee is required to be in compliance with this subpart.

(4) Specific information concerning covered employee conduct that is prohibited by this subpart.

(5) The circumstances under which a covered employee will be tested for alcohol under this subpart.

(6) The procedures that will be used to test for the presence of alcohol, protect the covered employee and the integrity of the breath testing process, safeguard the validity of the test results, and ensure that those results are attributed to the correct employee.

(7) The requirement that a covered employee submit to alcohol tests administered in accordance with this subpart.

(8) An explanation of what constitutes a refusal to submit to an alcohol test and the attendant consequences.

(9) The consequences for covered employees found to have violated the prohibitions under this subpart, including the requirement that the employee be removed immediately from covered functions, and the procedures under ยง 199.243.

(10) The consequences for covered employees found to have an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater but less than 0.04.

(11) Information concerning the effects of alcohol misuse on an individual's health, work, and personal life; signs and symptoms of an alcohol problem (the employee's or a coworker's); and including intervening evaluating and resolving problems associated with the misuse of alcohol including intervening when an alcohol problem is suspected, confrontation, referral to any available EAP, and/or referral to management.
