
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter I - Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation
#### Subchapter D - Pipeline Safety
##### PART 199 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
###### Subpart C - Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program
####### § 199.243 Referral, evaluation, and treatment.

(a) Each covered employee who has engaged in conduct prohibited by §§ 199.215 through 199.223 of this subpart shall be advised of the resources available to the covered employee in evaluating and resolving problems associated with the misuse of alcohol, including the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of substance abuse professionals and counseling and treatment programs.

(b) Each covered employee who engages in conduct prohibited under §§ 199.215 through 199.223 shall be evaluated by a substance abuse professional who shall determine what assistance, if any, the employee needs in resolving problems associated with alcohol misuse.

(c)(1) Before a covered employee returns to duty requiring the performance of a covered function after engaging in conduct prohibited by §§ 199.215 through 199.223 of this subpart, the employee shall undergo a return-to-duty alcohol test with a result indicating an alcohol concentration of less than 0.02.

(2) In addition, each covered employee identified as needing assistance in resolving problems associated with alcohol misuse-

(i) Shall be evaluated by a substance abuse professional to determine that the employee has properly followed any rehabilitation program prescribed under paragraph (b) of this section, and

(ii) Shall be subject to unannounced follow-up alcohol tests administered by the operator following the employee's return to duty. The number and frequency of such follow-up testing shall be determined by a substance abuse professional, but shall consist of at least six tests in the first 12 months following the employee's return to duty. In addition, follow-up testing may include testing for drugs, as directed by the substance abuse professional, to be performed in accordance with 49 CFR part 40. Follow-up testing shall not exceed 60 months from the date of the employee's return to duty. The substance abuse professional may terminate the requirement for follow-up testing at any time after the first six tests have been administered, if the substance abuse professional determines that such testing is no longer necessary.

(d) Evaluation and rehabilitation may be provided by the operator, by a substance abuse professional under contract with the operator, or by a substance abuse professional not affiliated with the operator. The choice of substance abuse professional and assignment of costs shall be made in accordance with the operator/employee agreements and operator/employee policies.

(e) The operator shall ensure that a substance abuse professional who determines that a covered employee requires assistance in resolving problems with alcohol misuse does not refer the employee to the substance abuse professional's private practice or to a person or organization from which the substance abuse professional receives remuneration or in which the substance abuse professional has a financial interest. This paragraph does not prohibit a substance abuse professional from referring an employee for assistance provided through-

(1) A public agency, such as a State, county, or municipality;

(2) The operator or a person under contract to provide treatment for alcohol problems on behalf of the operator;

(3) The sole source of therapeutically appropriate treatment under the employee's health insurance program; or

(4) The sole source of therapeutically appropriate treatment reasonably accessible to the employee.
