
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 24 - UNIFORM RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS
#### Subpart D - Payments for Moving and Related Expenses
##### ยง 24.301 Payment for actual reasonable moving and related expenses.
###### Eligible actual moving expenses.

(g)(1) Transportation of the displaced person and personal property. Transportation costs for a distance beyond 50 miles are not eligible, unless the Agency determines that relocation beyond 50 miles is justified.

(2) Packing, crating, unpacking, and uncrating of the personal property.

(3) Disconnecting, dismantling, removing, reassembling, and reinstalling relocated household appliances and other personal property. For businesses, farms or nonprofit organizations this includes machinery, equipment, substitute personal property, and connections to utilities available within the building; it also includes modifications to the personal property, including those mandated by Federal, State or local law, code or ordinance, necessary to adapt it to the replacement structure, the replacement site, or the utilities at the replacement site, and modifications necessary to adapt the utilities at the replacement site to the personal property.

(4) Storage of the personal property for a period not to exceed 12 months, unless the Agency determines that a longer period is necessary.

(5) Insurance for the replacement value of the property in connection with the move and necessary storage.

(6) The replacement value of property lost, stolen, or damaged in the process of moving (not through the fault or negligence of the displaced person, his or her agent, or employee) where insurance covering such loss, theft, or damage is not reasonably available.

(7) Other moving-related expenses that are not listed as ineligible under ยง 24.301(h), as the Agency determines to be reasonable and necessary.

(8) The reasonable cost of disassembling, moving, and reassembling any appurtenances attached to a mobile home, such as porches, decks, skirting, and awnings, which were not acquired, anchoring of the unit, and utility "hookup" charges.

(9) The reasonable cost of repairs and/or modifications so that a mobile home can be moved and/or made decent, safe, and sanitary.

(10) The cost of a nonrefundable mobile home park entrance fee, to the extent it does not exceed the fee at a comparable mobile home park, if the person is displaced from a mobile home park or the Agency determines that payment of the fee is necessary to effect relocation.

(11) Any license, permit, fees or certification required of the displaced person at the replacement location. However, the payment may be based on the remaining useful life of the existing license, permit, fees or certification.

(12) Professional services as the Agency determines to be actual, reasonable and necessary for:

(i) Planning the move of the personal property;

(ii) Moving the personal property; and

(iii) Installing the relocated personal property at the replacement location.

(13) Relettering signs and replacing stationery on hand at the time of displacement that are made obsolete as a result of the move.

(14) Actual direct loss of tangible personal property incurred as a result of moving or discontinuing the business or farm operation. The payment shall consist of the lesser of:

(i) The fair market value in place of the item, as is for continued use, less the proceeds from its sale. (To be eligible for payment, the claimant must make a good faith effort to sell the personal property, unless the Agency determines that such effort is not necessary. When payment for property loss is claimed for goods held for sale, the fair market value shall be based on the cost of the goods to the business, not the potential selling prices.); or

(ii) The estimated cost of moving the item as is, but not including any allowance for storage; or for reconnecting a piece of equipment if the equipment is in storage or not being used at the acquired site. (See appendix A, ยง 24.301(g)(14)(i) and (ii).) If the business or farm operation is discontinued, the estimated cost of moving the item shall be based on a moving distance of 50 miles.

(15) The reasonable cost incurred in attempting to sell an item that is not to be relocated.
