
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 209 - RAILROAD SAFETY ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 209.8 Depositions in formal proceedings.

(a) Any party to a proceeding under subpart B, C, or D of this part may take the testimony of any person, including a party, by deposition upon oral examination on order of the presiding officer following the granting of a motion under paragraph (b) of this section. Depositions may be taken before any disinterested person who is authorized by law to administer oaths. The attendance of witnesses may be compelled by subpoena as provided in ยง 209.7 and, for proceedings under subpart D of this part, ยง 209.315.

(b) Any party desiring to take the deposition of a witness shall file and serve a written motion setting forth the name of the witness; the date, time, and place of the deposition; the subject matter of the witness' expected testimony; whether any party objects to the taking of the deposition; and the reasons for taking such deposition. Such motion shall be granted only upon a showing of good cause. Good cause exists to take a person's deposition when the information sought is relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceeding and:

(1) The information is not obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, and less expensive; or

(2) The request is not unreasonably cumulative, unduly burdensome, or unduly expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, limitations on the parties' resources, and the importance of the issues in the case.

(c) Such notice as the presiding officer shall order will be given for the taking of a deposition, but this shall not be less than 10 days' written notice unless the parties agree to a shorter period.

(d) Each witness testifying upon deposition shall be sworn and the adverse party shall have the right to cross-examine. The questions propounded and the answers thereto, together with all objections made, shall be reduced to writing, subscribed by the witness, and certified by the reporter.

(e) Depositions taken under this section may be used for discovery, to contradict or impeach the testimony of the deponent as a witness, or as evidence in the proceeding as permitted by paragraph (f) of this section and in accordance with the limitations of Fed. R. Civ. Pro. 32 as though it were applicable to these proceedings.

(f) Subject to such objections to the questions and answers as were noted at the time of taking the deposition and as would be valid were the witness personally present and testifying, such deposition may be offered in evidence by any party to the proceeding.
