
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 209 - RAILROAD SAFETY ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Disqualification Procedures
###### § 209.305 Notice of proposed disqualification.

(a) FRA, through the Chief Counsel, begins a disqualification proceeding by serving a notice of proposed disqualification on the respondent charging him or her with having violated one or more rules, regulations, orders, or standards promulgated by FRA, which render the respondent unfit to perform safety-sensitive functions described in § 209.303.

(b) The notice of proposed disqualification issued under this section shall contain:

(1) A statement of the rule(s), regulation(s), order(s), or standard(s) that the respondent is alleged to have violated;

(2) A statement of the factual allegations that form the basis of the initial determination that the respondent is not fit to perform safety-sensitive functions;

(3) A statement of the effective date, duration, and other conditions, if any, of the disqualification order;

(4) A statement of the respondent's right to answer the charges in writing and furnish affidavits and any other documentary evidence in support of the answer;

(5) A statement of the respondent's right to make an informal response to the Chief Counsel;

(6) A statement of the respondent's right to request a hearing and the procedures for requesting a hearing;

(7) A statement of the respondent's right to counsel or other designated representative; and

(8) Notice of the consequences of the respondent's failure to take any of the actions described in § 209.307(a).

(c) The Chief Counsel shall enclose with the notice of proposed disqualification a copy of the material that is relied on in support of the charges. Nothing in this section precludes the Chief Counsel from presenting at a subsequent hearing under § 209.321 any evidence of the charges set forth in the notice that the Chief Counsel acquires after service thereof on the respondent. The Chief Counsel, however, shall serve a copy of any such evidence on the respondent at or before the prehearing conference required under § 209.319. Failure to furnish such evidence to respondent at or before the prehearing conference bars its introduction at the hearing.

(d) The Chief Counsel shall provide a copy of the notice of proposed disqualification to the railroad that employs the respondent.
