
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 209 - RAILROAD SAFETY ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Disqualification Procedures
###### § 209.313 Discovery.

(a) Disqualification proceedings shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible with due regard to the rights of the parties. Discovery is designed to enable a party to obtain relevant information needed for preparation of the party's case. These regulations are intended to provide a simple, timely, and relatively economical system for discovery. They shall be interpreted and applied so as to avoid delay and facilitate adjudication of the case.

(b) Discovery may be obtained by requests for admission under § 209.6, requests for production of documentary or other tangible evidence under § 209.7, and depositions under § 209.8.

(c) A party may initiate the methods of discovery permitted under paragraph (b) of this section at any time after respondent requests a hearing under § 209.311.

(d) Discovery shall be completed within 90 days after receipt of respondent's request for a hearing under § 209.311. Upon motion for good cause shown, the presiding officer may extend this time period for an additional 30 days. The presiding officer may grant an additional 30 day extension only when the party requesting the extension shows by clear and convincing evidence that the party was unable to complete discovery within the prescribed time period through no fault or lack of due diligence of such party, and that denial of the request would result in irreparable prejudice.

(e) If a party fails to comply with a discovery order or an order to compel, the presiding officer may:

(1) Strike any appropriate part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such order;

(2) Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence relating to the information sought;

(3) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought; and

(4) Permit the requesting party to introduce secondary evidence concerning the information sought.
