
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 210 - RAILROAD NOISE EMISSION COMPLIANCE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Inspection and Testing
###### § 210.29 Operation standards (moving locomotives and rail cars).

The operation standards for the noise emission levels of moving locomotives, rail cars, or consists of locomotives and rail cars are prescribed in the Standards and duplicated in appendix A of this part.

(a) Measurements for compliance shall be made in compliance with the provisions of subpart C of the Standards and the following:

(1) Consists of locomotives containing at least one locomotive unit manufactured prior to December 31, 1979, shall be evaluated for compliance in accordance with § 201.12(a) of the Standards, unless a locomotive within the consist is separated by at least 10 rail car lengths or 500 feet from other locomotives in the consist, in which case such separated locomotives may be evaluated for compliance according to their respective built dates.

(2) Consists of locomotives composed entirely of locomotive units manufactured after December 31, 1979, shall be evaluated for compliance in accordance with § 201.12(b) of the Standards.

(3) If the inspector cannot establish the built dates of all locomotives in a consist of locomotives measured under moving conditions, evaluation for compliance shall be made in accordance with § 201.12(a) of the Standards.

(b) Noise emission standards for rail cars operating under moving conditions are contained in § 201.13 of the Standards and are stated in appendix A of this part. If speed measurement equipment used by the inspector at the time of the measurement is not operating within an accuracy of 5 miles per hour, evaluation for compliance shall be made in accordance with § 201.13(2) of the Standards.

(c) Locomotives and rail cars tested pursuant to the procedures prescribed in this part and in the Standards shall be considered in noncompliance whenever the test measurement, minus the appropriate tolerance (§ 210.25), exceeds the noise emission levels prescribed in appendix A of this part.
