
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 24 - UNIFORM RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS
#### Subpart E - Replacement Housing Payments
##### ยง 24.401 Replacement housing payment for 180-day homeowner-occupants.
###### e.g.

(6) Owner's and mortgagee's evidence of title,, title insurance, not to exceed the costs for a comparable replacement dwelling.

(7) Escrow agent's fee.

(8) State revenue or documentary stamps, sales or transfer taxes (not to exceed the costs for a comparable replacement dwelling).

(9) Such other costs as the Agency determine to be incidental to the purchase.

(f) Rental assistance payment for 180-day homeowner. A 180-day homeowner-occupant, who could be eligible for a replacement housing payment under paragraph (a) of this section but elects to rent a replacement dwelling, is eligible for a rental assistance payment. The amount of the rental assistance payment is based on a determination of market rent for the acquired dwelling compared to a comparable rental dwelling available on the market. The difference, if any, is computed in accordance with ยง 24.402(b)(1), except that the limit of $5,250 does not apply, and disbursed in accordance with ยง 24.402(b)(3). Under no circumstances would the rental assistance payment exceed the amount that could have been received under ยง 24.401(b)(1) had the 180-day homeowner elected to purchase and occupy a comparable replacement dwelling.
