
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 213 - TRACK SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Train Operations at Track Classes 6 and Higher
###### ยง 213.335 Crossties.

(a) Crossties shall be made of a material to which rail can be securely fastened.

(b) Each 39 foot segment of track shall have-

(1) A sufficient number of crossties which in combination provide effective support that will-

(i) Hold gage within the limits prescribed in ยง 213.323(b);

(ii) Maintain surface within the limits prescribed in ยง 213.331; and

(iii) Maintain alinement within the limits prescribed in ยง 213.327.

(2) The minimum number and type of crossties specified in paragraph (c) of this section effectively distributed to support the entire segment; and

(3) Crossties of the type specified in paragraph (c) of this section that are(is) located at a joint location as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) For non-concrete tie construction, each 39 foot segment of Class 6 track shall have fourteen crossties; Classes 7, 8 and 9 shall have 18 crossties which are not-

(1) Broken through;

(2) Split or otherwise impaired to the extent the crossties will allow the ballast to work through, or will not hold spikes or rail fasteners;

(3) So deteriorated that the tie plate or base of rail can move laterallyinch relative to the crossties;

(4) Cut by the tie plate through more than 40 percent of a crosstie's thickness;

(5) Configured with less than 2 rail holding spikes or fasteners per tie plate; or

(6) So unable, due to insufficient fastener toeload, to maintain longitudinal restraint and maintain rail hold down and gage.

(d) For concrete tie construction, each 39 foot segment of Class 6 track shall have fourteen crossties, Classes 7, 8 and 9 shall have 16 crossties which are not-

(1) So deteriorated that the prestress strands are ineffective or withdrawn into the tie at one end and the tie exhibits structural cracks in the rail seat or in the gage of track;

(2) Configured with less than 2 fasteners on the same rail;

(3) So deteriorated in the vicinity of the rail fastener such that the fastener assembly may pull out or move laterally more thaninch relative to the crosstie;

(4) So deteriorated that the fastener base plate or base of rail can move laterally more thaninch relative to the crossties;

(5) So deteriorated that rail seat abrasion is sufficiently deep so as to cause loss of rail fastener toeload;

(6) Completely broken through; or

(7) So unable, due to insufficient fastener toeload, to maintain longitudinal restraint and maintain rail hold down and gage.

(e) Class 6 track shall have one non-defective crosstie whose centerline is within 18 inches of the rail joint location or two crossties whose center lines are within 24 inches either side of the rail joint location. Class 7, 8, and 9 track shall have two non-defective ties within 24 inches each side of the rail joint.

(f) For track constructed without crossties, such as slab track and track connected directly to bridge structural components, the track structure shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.

(g) In Classes 7, 8 and 9 there shall be at least three non-defective ties each side of a defective tie.

(h) Where timber crossties are in use there shall be tie plates under the running rails on at least nine of 10 consecutive ties.

(i) No metal object which causes a concentrated load by solely supporting a rail shall be allowed between the base of the rail and the bearing surface of the tie plate.
