
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Transportation
### PART 24 - UNIFORM RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS
#### Subpart E - Replacement Housing Payments
##### ยง 24.404 Replacement housing of last resort.
###### Methods of providing comparable replacement housing.

(c)Agencies shall have broad latitude in implementing this subpart, but implementation shall be for reasonable cost, on a case-by-case basis unless an exception to case-by-case analysis is justified for an entire project.

(1) The methods of providing replacement housing of last resort include, but are not limited to:

(i) A replacement housing payment in excess of the limits set forth in ยง 24.401 or ยง 24.402. A replacement housing payment under this section may be provided in installments or in a lump sum at the Agency's discretion.

(ii) Rehabilitation of and/or additions to an existing replacement dwelling.

(iii) The construction of a new replacement dwelling.

(iv) The provision of a direct loan, which requires regular amortization or deferred repayment. The loan may be unsecured or secured by the real property. The loan may bear interest or be interest-free.

(v) The relocation and, if necessary, rehabilitation of a dwelling.

(vi) The purchase of land and/or a replacement dwelling by the displacing Agency and subsequent sale or lease to, or exchange with a displaced person.

(vii) The removal of barriers for persons with disabilities.
