
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 213 - TRACK SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Train Operations at Track Classes 6 and Higher
###### ยง 213.353 Turnouts, crossovers, and lift rail assemblies or other transition devices on moveable bridges.

(a) In turnouts and track crossings, the fastenings must be intact and maintained so as to keep the components securely in place. Also, each switch, frog, and guard rail shall be kept free of obstructions that may interfere with the passage of wheels. Use of rigid rail crossings at grade is limited per ยง 213.347.

(b) Track shall be equipped with rail anchoring through and on each side of track crossings and turnouts, to restrain rail movement affecting the position of switch points and frogs. Elastic fasteners designed to restrict longitudinal rail movement are considered rail anchoring.

(c) Each flangeway at turnouts and track crossings shall be at least 1inches wide.

(d) For all turnouts and crossovers, and lift rail assemblies or other transition devices on moveable bridges, the track owner shall prepare an inspection and maintenance Guidebook for use by railroad employees which shall be submitted to the Federal Railroad Administration. The Guidebook shall contain at a minimum-

(1) Inspection frequency and methodology including limiting measurement values for all components subject to wear or requiring adjustment.

(2) Maintenance techniques.

(e) Each hand operated switch shall be equipped with a redundant operating mechanism for maintaining the security of switch point position.
