
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 214 - RAILROAD WORKPLACE SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Bridge Worker Safety Standards
###### ยง 214.105 Fall protection systems standards and practices.
####### General requirements.

(a)All fall protection systems required by this subpart shall conform to the following:

(1) Fall protection systems shall be used only for personal fall protection.

(2) Any fall protection system subjected to impact loading shall be immediately and permanently removed from service unless fully inspected and determined by a competent person to be undamaged and suitable for reuse.

(3) All fall protection system components shall be protected from abrasions, corrosion, or any other form of deterioration.

(4) All fall protection system components shall be inspected prior to each use for wear, damage, corrosion, mildew, and other deterioration. Defective components shall be permanently removed from service.

(5) Prior to use and after any component or system is changed, bridge workers shall be trained in the application limits of the equipment, proper hook-up, anchoring and tie-off techniques, methods of use, and proper methods of equipment inspection and storage.

(6) The railroad or railroad contractor shall provide for prompt rescue of bridge workers in the event of a fall.

(7) Connectors shall have a corrosion-resistant finish, and all surfaces and edges shall be smooth to prevent damage to interfacing parts of the system.

(8) Connectors shall be drop forged, pressed or formed steel, or made of equivalent-strength materials.

(9) Anchorages, including single- and double-head anchors, shall be capable of supporting at least 5,000 pounds per bridge worker attached, or shall be designed, installed, and used under supervision of a qualified person as part of a complete personal fall protection system that maintains a safety factor of at least two.
