
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 214 - RAILROAD WORKPLACE SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Bridge Worker Safety Standards
###### ยง 214.105 Fall protection systems standards and practices.
####### Personal fall arrest systems.

(b)All components of a personal fall arrest system shall conform to the following standards:

(1) Lanyards and vertical lifelines that tie off one bridge worker shall have a minimum breaking strength of 5,000 pounds.

(2) Self-retracting lifelines and lanyards that automatically limit free fall distance to two feet or less shall have components capable of sustaining a minimum static tensile load of 3,000 pounds applied to the device with the lifeline or lanyard in the fully extended position.

(3) Self-retracting lifelines and lanyards that do not limit free fall distance to two feet or less, ripstitch, and tearing and deformed lanyards shall be capable of withstanding 5,000 pounds applied to the device with the lifeline or lanyard in the fully extended position.

(4) Horizontal lifelines shall be designed, installed, and used under the supervision of a competent person, as part of a complete personal fall arrest system that maintains a safety factor of at least two.

(5) Lifelines shall not be made of natural fiber rope.

(6) Body belts shall not be used as components of personal fall arrest systems.

(7) The personal fall arrest system shall limit the maximum arresting force on a bridge worker to 1,800 pounds when used with a body harness.

(8) The personal fall arrest system shall bring a bridge worker to a complete stop and limit maximum deceleration distance a bridge worker travels to 3.5 feet.

(9) The personal fall arrest system shall have sufficient strength to withstand twice the potential impact energy of a bridge worker free falling a distance of six feet, or the free fall distance permitted by the system, whichever is less.

(10) The personal fall arrest system shall be arranged so that a bridge worker cannot free fall more than six feet and cannot contact the ground or any lower horizontal surface of the bridge.

(11) Personal fall arrest systems shall be worn with the attachment point of the body harness located in the center of the wearer's back near shoulder level, or above the wearer's head.

(12) When vertical lifelines are used, each bridge worker shall be provided with a separate lifeline.

(13) Devices used to connect to a horizontal lifeline that may become a vertical lifeline shall be capable of locking in either direction.

(14) Dee-rings and snap-hooks shall be capable of sustaining a minimum tensile load of 3,600 pounds without cracking, breaking, or taking permanent deformation.

(15) Dee-rings and snap-hooks shall be capable of sustaining a minimum tensile load of 5,000 pounds.

(16) Snap-hooks shall not be connected to each other.

(17) Snap-hooks shall be dimensionally compatible with the member to which they are connected to prevent unintentional disengagement, or shall be a locking snap-hook designed to prevent unintentional disengagement.

(18) Unless of a locking type, snap-hooks shall not be engaged:

(i) Directly, next to a webbing, rope, or wire rope;

(ii) To each other;

(iii) To a dee-ring to which another snap-hook or other connector is attached;

(iv) To a horizontal lifeline; or

(v) To any object that is incompatibly shaped or dimensioned in relation to the snap-hook so that unintentional disengagement could occur.
