
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 214 - RAILROAD WORKPLACE SAFETY
##### Subpart B - Bridge Worker Safety Standards
###### ยง 214.109 Scaffolding.

(a) Scaffolding used in connection with railroad bridge maintenance, inspection, testing, and construction shall be constructed and maintained in a safe condition and meet the following minimum requirements:

(1) Each scaffold and scaffold component, except suspension ropes and guardrail systems, but including footings and anchorage, shall be capable of supporting, without failure, its own weight and at least four times the maximum intended load applied or transmitted to that scaffold or scaffold component.

(2) Guardrail systems shall be capable of withstanding, without failure, a force of at least 200 pounds applied within two inches of the top edge, in any outward or downward direction, at any point along the top edge.

(3) Top edge height of toprails, or equivalent guardrail system member, shall be 42 inches, plus or minus three inches. Supports shall be at intervals not to exceed eight feet. Toeboards shall be a minimum of four inches in height.

(4) Midrails, screens, mesh, intermediate vertical members, solid panels, and equivalent structural members shall be capable of withstanding, without failure, a force of at least 150 pounds applied in any downward or outward direction at any point along the midrail or other member.

(5) Midrails shall be installed at a height midway between the top edge of the guardrail system and the walking/working level.

(b) Scaffolds shall not be altered or moved while they are occupied. This paragraph does not apply to vertical movements of mobile scaffolds that are designed to move vertically while occupied.

(c) An access ladder or equivalent safe access shall be provided.

(d) All exposed surfaces shall be prepared and cleared to prevent injury due to laceration, puncture, tripping, or falling hazard.

(e) All scaffold design, construction, and repair shall be completed by competent individuals trained and knowledgeable about design criteria, intended use, structural limitations, and procedures for proper repair.

(f) Manually propelled mobile ladder stands and scaffolds shall conform to the following:

(1) All manually propelled mobile ladder stands and scaffolds shall be capable of carrying the design load.

(2) All ladder stands, scaffolds, and scaffold components shall be capable of supporting, without failure, displacement, or settlement, its own weight and at least four times the maximum intended load applied or transmitted to that ladder stand, scaffold, or scaffold component.

(3) All exposed surfaces shall be free from sharp edges or burrs.

(4) The maximum work level height shall not exceed four times the minimum or least base dimensions of any mobile ladder stand or scaffold. Where the basic mobile unit does not meet this requirement, suitable outrigger frames shall be employed to achieve this least base dimension, or equivalent provisions shall be made to guy or brace the unit against tipping.

(5) The minimum platform width for any work level shall not be less than 20 inches for mobile scaffolds (towers). Ladder stands shall have a minimum step width of 16 inches. The steps of ladder stands shall be fabricated from slip resistant treads.

(6) Guardrails and midrails shall conform to the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section.

(7) A climbing ladder or stairway shall be provided for proper access and egress, and shall be affixed or built into the scaffold and so located that in its use it will not have a tendency to tip the scaffold.

(8) Wheels or casters shall be capable of supporting, without failure, at least four times the maximum intended load applied or transmitted to that component. All scaffold casters shall be provided with a positive wheel and/or swivel lock to prevent movement. Ladder stands shall have at least two of the four casters and shall be of the swivel type.
