
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 214 - RAILROAD WORKPLACE SAFETY
##### Subpart C - Roadway Worker Protection
###### ยง 214.347 Training and qualification for lone workers.

Each lone worker shall be trained and qualified by the employer to establish on-track safety in accordance with the requirements of this section, and must be authorized to do so by the railroad that conducts train operations on those tracks.

(a) The training and qualification for lone workers shall include, as a minimum, consideration of the following factors:

(1) Detection of approaching trains and prompt movement to a place of safety upon their approach.

(2) Determination of the distance along the track at which trains must be visible in order to provide the prescribed warning time.

(3) Rules and procedures prescribed by the railroad for individual train detection, establishment of working limits, and definite train location.

(4) On-track safety procedures to be used in the territory on which the employee is to be qualified and permitted to work alone.

(5) Alternative means to access the information in a railroad's on-track safety manual when a lone worker's duties make it impracticable for the on-track safety manual to be readily available.

(b) Initial and periodic (as specified by ยง 243.201 of this chapter) qualification of a lone worker shall be evidenced by demonstrated proficiency.
