
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 214 - RAILROAD WORKPLACE SAFETY
##### Subpart D - On-Track Roadway Maintenance Machines and Hi-Rail Vehicles
###### ยง 214.517 Retrofitting of existing on-track roadway maintenance machines manufactured on or after January 1, 1991.

In addition to meeting the requirements of ยง 214.513, after March 28, 2005 each existing on-track roadway maintenance machine manufactured on or after January 1, 1991, shall have the following:

(a) A change-of-direction alarm or rearview mirror or other rearward viewing device, if either device is feasible, given the machine's design, and if either device adds operational safety value, given the machine's function. In any action brought by FRA to enforce this requirement, the employer shall have the burden of proving that neither device is feasible or adds operational safety value, or both, given the machine's design or work function.

(b) An operative heater, when the machine is operated at an ambient temperature less than 50 degrees Fahrenheit and is equipped with, or has been equipped with, a heater installed by the manufacturer or the railroad.

(c) The light weight of the machine stenciled or otherwise clearly displayed on the machine, if the light weight is known.

(d) Reflective material, or a reflective device, or operable brake lights.

(e) Safety glass when its glass is normally replaced, except that replacement glass that is specifically intended for on-track roadway maintenance machines and is in the employer's inventory as of September 26, 2003 may be utilized until exhausted.

(f) A turntable restraint device, on machines equipped with a turntable, to prevent undesired lowering, or a warning light indicating that the turntable is not in the normal travel position.
