
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 214 - RAILROAD WORKPLACE SAFETY
##### Subpart D - On-Track Roadway Maintenance Machines and Hi-Rail Vehicles
###### ยง 214.523 Hi-rail vehicles.

(a) The hi-rail gear of all hi-rail vehicles shall be inspected for safety at least annually and with no more than 14 months between inspections. Tram, wheel wear, and gage shall be measured and, if necessary, adjusted to allow the vehicle to be safely operated.

(b) Each employer shall keep records pertaining to compliance with paragraph (a) of this section. Records may be kept on forms provided by the employer or by electronic means. The employer shall retain the record of each inspection until the next required inspection is performed. The records shall be made available for inspection and copying during normal business hours by representatives of FRA and States participating under part 212 of this chapter. The records may be kept on the hi-rail vehicle or at a location designated by the employer.

(c) A new hi-rail vehicle shall be equipped with:

(1) An automatic change-of-direction alarm or backup alarm that provides an audible signal at least three seconds long and distinguishable from the surrounding noise; and

(2) An operable 360-degree intermittent warning light or beacon mounted on the outside of the vehicle.

(d)(1) The operator of a hi-rail vehicle shall check the vehicle for compliance with this subpart, prior to using the vehicle at the start of the operator's work shift.

(2) A non-complying condition that cannot be repaired immediately shall be tagged and dated in a manner prescribed by the employer and reported to the designated official.

(3) Non-complying automatic change-of-direction alarms, backup alarms, and 360-degree intermittent warning lights or beacons shall be repaired or replaced as soon as practicable within seven calendar days.
