
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 215 - RAILROAD FREIGHT CAR SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 215.9 Movement of defective cars for repair.

(a) A railroad freight car which has any component described as defective in this part may be moved to another location for repair only after the railroad has complied with the following:

(1) A person designated under ยง 215.11 shall determine:

(i) That it is safe to move the car; and

(ii) The maximum speed and other restrictions necessary for safely conducting the movement;

(2)(i) The person in charge of the train in which the car is to be moved shall be notified in writing and inform all other crew members of the presence of the defective car and the maximum speed and other restrictions determined under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) A copy of the tag or card described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section may be used to provide the notification required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) A tag or card bearing the words "bad order" or "home shop for repairs" and containing the following information, shall be securely attached to each side of the car-

(i) The reporting mark and car number;

(ii) The name of the inspecting railroad;

(iii) The inspection location and date;

(iv) The nature of each defect;

(v) Movement restrictions;

(vi) The destination for shopping or repair; and

(vii) The signature of a person designated under ยง 215.11.

(b)(1) The tag or card required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section may only be removed from the car by a person designated under ยง 215.11 of this part.

(2) A record or copy of each tag or card attached to or removed from a car shall be retained for 90 days and, upon request, shall be made available within 15 calendar days for inspection by FRA or State inspectors.

(3) Each tag or card removed from a car shall contain a notification stating the date, location, reason for its removal, and the signature of the person who removed it from the car. These recordkeeping requirements have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with the Federal Reports Act of 1942.

(c) Movement of a freight car under paragraph (a) of this section may be made only for the purpose of effecting repairs. If the car is empty, it may not be placed for loading. If the car is loaded, it may not be placed for unloading unless unloading is consistent with determinations made and restrictions imposed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and-

(1) The car is consigned for a destination on the line of haul between the point where the car was found defective and the point where repairs are made; or

(2) Unloading is necessary for the safe repair of the car.

(d) Nothing in this section authorizes the movement of a freight car subject to a Special Notice for Repairs unless the movement is made in accordance with the restrictions contained in the Special Notice.
