
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 215 - RAILROAD FREIGHT CAR SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Appendix A to Part 215 - Railroad Freight Car Components

List of components whose use is restricted by ยง 215.203 of this part.

The "K" type.

1. Former AAR alternate standard tubular type.

2. Axle with letters "RJ" stamped on the end of the journal.

1. AAR type "D", top or bottom operated.

2. AAR type "E" with 5&#x2033; by 7&#x2033; shank.

1. Miner FR-16 and FR-19-F draft gears.

2. Farlow draft attachment.

Cartridge type.

1. Nippon Sieko Kabushiki Kaish (NSK) size 6&#x2033; by 12&#x2033; (marked "AAR 11").

2. Hyatt cylindrical bearing, all sizes (marked "AAR 2").

3. SKF "Piggybacker" spherical roller, size 6&#x2033; by 11&#x2033; (marked "AAR 7").

1. Arch bar type.

2. Truck with cast steel pedestal side frame, short wheel base, and no bolster.

1. A bolster with one of the following pattern numbers listed according to manufacturer:

2. Bolster cast before 1927.

3. Bolster without an identification mark or pattern number.

A side frame with one of the following pattern numbers listed according to manufacturer:

2. Side frame cast before 1927.

3. Side frame without an identification mark or pattern number.

4. Side frame with an "I", "T", or "L" section compression or tension member.

1. Cast iron wheel.

2. Cast steel wheel marked "AAR X-2."

3. Southern cast steel wheel manufactured before May 7, 1958.

4. Griffin, three-riser cast steel wheel, ball rim design, 70-ton capacity.

5. Griffin, three-riser cast steel wheel, two-wear, 70- and 50-ton capacity, 33 inch, (marked X-5 or CS-2).

6. Wrought steel wheel manufactured before 1927, as indicated by marking on wheel.

7. Cast steel wheel marked AAR X-4.

8. Davis cast steel wheel.

9. One-wear, 70-ton Southern (ABEX) U1 cast steel wheels dated May 7, 1958 through December 31, 1969.

A. Wheels dated May 7, 1958, to January 1, 1964, are marked with the symbol "70T" cast on the back of the wheel plate; they are not marked "U-1."
