
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 216 - SPECIAL NOTICE AND EMERGENCY ORDER PROCEDURES: RAILROAD TRACK, LOCOMOTIVE AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Special Notice for Repairs
###### ยง 216.11 Special notice for repairs - railroad freight car.

(a) When an FRA Motive Power and Equipment Inspector or a State Equipment Inspector determines that a railroad freight car is not in conformity with the requirements of the FRA Freight Car Safety Standards set forth in part 215 of this chapter and that it is unsafe for further service, he notifies the railroad in writing that the car is not in serviceable condition. The Special Notice sets out and describes the defects that cause the car to be in unserviceable condition. After receipt of the Special Notice, the railroad shall remove the car from service until it is restored to serviceable condition. The car may not be deemed to be in serviceable condition until it complies with all applicable requirements of part 215 of this chapter.

(b) The railroad shall notify the FRA Regional Administrator in writing when the equipment is returned to service, specifying the repairs completed.

(c) A railroad freight car subject to the notice prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section may be moved from the place where it was found to be unsafe for further service to the nearest available point where the car can be repaired, if such movement is necessary to make such repairs. However, the movement is subject to the further restrictions of ยง 215.9 of this chapter.
