
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 216 - SPECIAL NOTICE AND EMERGENCY ORDER PROCEDURES: RAILROAD TRACK, LOCOMOTIVE AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Special Notice for Repairs
###### § 216.14 Special notice for repairs - passenger equipment.

(a) When an FRA Motive Power and Equipment Inspector or a State Equipment Inspector determines that railroad passenger equipment is not in conformity with one or more of the requirements of the FRA Passenger Equipment Safety Standards set forth in part 238 of this chapter and that it is unsafe for further service, he or she will issue a written Special Notice to the railroad that the equipment is not in serviceable condition. The Special Notice describes the defect or defects that cause the equipment to be in unserviceable condition. After receipt of the Special Notice, the railroad shall remove the equipment from service until it is restored to serviceable condition. The equipment may not be deemed in serviceable condition until it complies with all applicable requirements of part 238 of this chapter.

(b) The railroad shall notify in writing the FRA Regional Administrator for the FRA region in which the Special Notice was issued when the equipment is returned to service, specifying the repairs completed.

(c) Railroad passenger equipment subject to a Special Notice may be moved from the place where it was found to be unsafe for further service to the nearest available point where the equipment can be repaired, if such movement is necessary to make the repairs. However, the movement is subject to the further restrictions of §§ 238.15 and 238.17 of this chapter.
