
# Title 49 - Transportation
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
### Chapter II - Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation
#### PART 218 - RAILROAD OPERATING PRACTICES
##### Subpart C - Protection of Trains and Locomotives
###### ยง 218.37 Flag protection.

(a) After August 1, 1977, each railroad must have in effect an operating rule which complies with the requirements set forth below:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, flag protection shall be provided-

(i) When a train is moving on the main track at less than one-half the maximum authorized speed (including slow order limits) in that territory, flag protection against following trains on the same track must be provided by a crew member by dropping off single lighted fusees at intervals that do not exceed the burning time of the fusee.

(ii) When a train is moving on the main track at more than one-half the maximum authorized speed (including slow order limits) in that territory under circumstances in which it may be overtaken, crew members responsible for providing protection will take into consideration the grade, curvature of track, weather conditions, sight distance and relative speed of his train to following trains and will be governed accordingly in the use of fusees.

(iii) When a train stops on main track, flag protection against following trains on the same track must be provided as follows: A crew member with flagman's signals must immediately go back at least the distance prescribed by timetable or other instructions for the territory and display one lighted fusee. The crew member may then return one-half of the distance to the crew member's train where the crew member must remain until the crew member has stopped the approaching train or is recalled. When recalled, the crew member must leave one lighted fusee and while returning to the crew member's train, the crew member must also place single lighted fusees at intervals that do not exceed the burning time of the fusee. When the train departs, a crew member must leave one lighted fusee and until the train resumes speed not less than one-half the maximum authorized speed (including slow order limits) in that territory, the crew member must drop off single lighted fusees at intervals that do not exceed the burning time of the fusee.

(iv) When required by the railroad's operating rules, a forward crew member with flagman's signals must protect the front of the crew member's train against opposing movements by immediately going forward at least the distance prescribed by timetable or other instructions for the territory, displaying one lighted fusee, and remaining at that location until recalled.

(v) Whenever a crew member is providing flag protection, he must not permit other duties to interfere with the protection of his train.

(2) Flag protection against following trains on the same track is not required if-

(i) The rear of the train is protected by at least two block signals;

(ii) The rear of the train is protected by an absolute block;

(iii) The rear of the train is within interlocking limits; or

(iv) A train order specifies that flag protection is not required.

(v) A railroad operates only one train at any given time.

(b) Each railroad shall designate by timetable or other instruction for each territory the specific distance which a crew member providing flag protection must go out in order to provide adequate protection for his train.

(c) Whenever the use of fusees is prohibited by a Federal, State or local fire regulation, each railroad operating within that jurisdiction shall provide alternate operating procedures to assure full protection of trains in lieu of flag protection required by this section.
