
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.2 General requirements for filing Electronic Export Information (EEI).
####### Filing requirements.,Direct

(a)(1) The EEI shall be filed through the AES by the United States Principal Party In Interest (USPPI), the USPPI's authorized agent, or the authorized U.S. agent of the Foreign Principal Party In Interest (FPPI) for all exports of physical goods, including shipments moving pursuant to orders received over the Internet. The Automated Export System (AES) is the electronic system for collecting Shipper's Export Declaration (SED) (or any successor document) information from persons exporting goods from the United States, Puerto Rico, Foreign Trade Zones (FTZs) located in the United States or Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, between Puerto Rico and the United States, and to the U.S. Virgin Islands from the United States or Puerto Rico. Exceptions, exclusions, and exemptions to this requirement are provided for in paragraph (d) of this section and Subpart D of this part. References to the AES also shall apply to AESunless otherwise specified. For purposes of the regulations in this part, the SED information shall be referred to as EEI. Filing through the AES shall be done in accordance with the definitions, specifications, and requirements of the regulations in this part for all export shipments, except as specifically excluded in ยง 30.2(d) or exempted in Subpart D of this part, when shipped as follows:

(i) To foreign countries or areas, including free (foreign trade) zones located therein (see ยง 30.36 for exemptions for shipments from the United States to Canada) from any of the following:

(A) The United States, including the 50 states and the District of Columbia.

(B) Puerto Rico.

(C) FTZs located in the United States or Puerto Rico.

(D) The U.S. Virgin Islands.

(ii) Between any of the following nonforeign areas including goods previously admitted to customs warehouses or FTZs and moving under a U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) bond:

(A) To Puerto Rico from the United States.

(B) To the United States from Puerto Rico.

(C) To the U.S. Virgin Islands from the United States or Puerto Rico.

(iii) The EEI shall be filed for goods moving as described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section by any mode of transportation. (Instructions for filing EEI for vessels, aircraft, railway cars, and other carriers when sold while outside the areas described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) are covered in ยง 30.26.)

(iv) Notwithstanding exemptions in Subpart D, EEI shall be filed for the following types of export shipments, regardless of value:

(A) Requiring a Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) license or requiring reporting under the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR 758.1(b)).

(B) Requiring a Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) license under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR Parts 120 through 130).

(C) Subject to the ITAR, but exempt from license requirements, except as noted by the ITAR.

(D) Requiring a Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) export permit (21 CFR 1312).

(E) Requiring a general or specific export license issued by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission under 10 CFR part 110.

(F) Requiring an export license issued by any other federal government agency.

(G) Classified as rough diamonds under 6-digit HS subheadings 7102.10, 7102.21, and 7102.31.

(H) Used self-propelled vehicles as defined in 19 CFR 192.1 of U.S. Customs and Border Protection regulations, except as noted in CBP regulations.
