
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.2 General requirements for filing Electronic Export Information (EEI).
####### Exclusions from filing EEI.

(d)The following types of transactions are outside the scope of this part and shall be excluded from EEI filing.

(1) Goods shipped under CBP bond through the United States, Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands from one foreign country or area to another where such goods do not enter the consumption channels of the United States.

(2) Except Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, goods shipped from the U.S. territories and goods shipped between the United States and these territories do not require EEI filing. However, goods transiting U.S. territories to foreign destinations require EEI filing.

(3) Electronic transmissions and intangible transfers. (See Subpart B of this part for export control requirements for these types of transactions.)

(4) Goods shipped to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba from the United States, Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands and from Guantanamo Bay Naval Base to the United States, Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands. (See ยง 30.39 for filing requirements for shipments exported to the U.S. Armed Services.)

(5) Goods licensed by a U.S. federal government agency where the country of ultimate destination is the United States or goods destined to international waters where the person(s) or entity assuming control of the item(s) is a citizen or permanent resident alien of the United States or a juridical entity organized under the laws of the United States or a jurisdiction within the United States.
