
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### § 30.3 Electronic Export Information filer requirements, parties to export transactions, and responsibilities of parties to export transactions.
####### USPPI.

(2)For purposes of filing EEI, the USPPI is the person or legal entity in the United States that receives the primary benefit, monetary or otherwise, from the transaction. Generally, that person or entity is the U.S. seller, manufacturer, order party, or foreign entity if in the United States at the time goods are purchased or obtained for export. The foreign entity shall be listed as the USPPI if it is in the United States when the items are purchased or obtained for export. The foreign entity shall then follow the provisions for filing the EEI specified in §§ 30.3 and 30.6 pertaining to the USPPI.

(i) If a U.S. manufacturer sells goods directly to an entity in a foreign area, the U.S. manufacturer shall be listed as the USPPI in the EEI.

(ii) If a U.S. manufacturer sells goods, as a domestic sale, to a U.S. buyer (wholesaler/distributor) and that U.S. buyer sells the goods for export to a FPPI, the U.S. buyer (wholesaler/distributor) shall be listed as the USPPI in the EEI.

(iii) If a U.S. order party directly arranges for the sale and export of goods to the FPPI, the U.S. order party shall be listed as the USPPI in the EEI.

(iv) If a customs broker is listed as the importer of record when entering goods into the United States for immediate consumption or warehousing entry, the customs broker may be listed as the USPPI in the EEI if the goods are subsequently exported without change or enhancement.

(v) If a foreign person is listed as the importer of record when entering goods into the United States for immediate consumption or warehousing entry, the customs broker who entered the goods, may be listed as the USPPI in the EEI if the goods are subsequently exported without change or enhancement.
