
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.3 Electronic Export Information filer requirements, parties to export transactions, and responsibilities of parties to export transactions.
####### Carrier responsibilities.

(3)(i) The carrier must not load or move cargo unless the required documentation, from the USPPI or authorized agent, contains the required AES proof of filing, postdeparture, downtime, exclusion or exemption citations. This information must be cited on the first page of the bill of lading, air waybill, or other commercial loading documents.

(ii) The carrier must annotate the AES proof of filing, postdeparture, downtime, exclusion or exemption citations on the carrier's outbound manifest when required.

(iii) The carrier is responsible for presenting the required AES proof of filing, postdeparture, downtime, exclusion or exemption citations to the CBP Port Director at the port of export as stated in Subpart E of this part. Such presentation shall be without material change or amendment of the proof of filing, postdeparture, downtime, exclusion or exemption citation.

(iv) The carrier shall notify the USPPI or the authorized agent of changes to the transportation data, and the USPPI or the authorized agent shall electronically transmit the corrections, cancellations, or amendments as soon as the corrections are known in accordance with ยง 30.9. Manifest amendments must be made in accordance with CBP regulations.

(v) Retain documents pertaining to the export shipment as specified in ยง 30.10.
