
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.3 Electronic Export Information filer requirements, parties to export transactions, and responsibilities of parties to export transactions.
####### USPPI responsibilities.

(1)In a routed export transaction, the FPPI may authorize or agree to allow the USPPI to prepare and file the EEI. If the FPPI agrees to allow the USPPI to file the EEI, the FPPI must provide a written authorization to the USPPI assuming the responsibility for filing. The USPPI may authorize an agent to file the EEI on its behalf. If the USPPI or its agent prepares and files the EEI, it shall retain documentation to support the EEI filed. If the FPPI agrees to allow the USPPI to file EEI, the filing of the export transaction shall be treated as a routed export transaction. If the FPPI authorizes an agent to prepare and file the EEI, the USPPI shall retain documentation to support the information provided to the agent for preparing the EEI as specified in ยง 30.10 and provide the agent with the following information to assist in preparing the EEI:

(i) Name and address of the USPPI.

(ii) USPPI's EIN or DUNS

(iii) State of origin (State).

(iv) FTZ if applicable.

(v) Commercial description of commodities.

(vi) Origin of goods indicator: Domestic (D) or Foreign (F).

(vii) Schedule B or HTSUSA, Classification Commodity Code.

(viii) Quantities/units of measure.

(ix) Value.

(x) Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) or sufficient technical information to determine the ECCN.

(xi) All licensing information necessary to file the EEI for commodities where the Department of State, the Department of Commerce, or other U.S. government agency issues a license for the commodities being exported, or the merchandise is being exported under a license exemption or license exception.

(xii) Any information that it knows will affect the determination of license authorization (see Subpart B of this part for additional information on licensing requirements).
