
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.3 Electronic Export Information filer requirements, parties to export transactions, and responsibilities of parties to export transactions.
####### Authorized agent responsibilities.

(2)In a routed export transaction, if an authorized agent is preparing and filing the EEI on behalf of the FPPI, the authorized agent must obtain a power of attorney or written authorization from the FPPI and prepare and file the EEI based on information obtained from the USPPI or other parties involved in the transaction. The authorized agent shall be responsible for filing EEI accurately and timely in accordance with the FTR. Upon request, the authorized agent will provide the USPPI with a copy of the power of attorney or written authorization from the FPPI. The authorized agent shall also retain documentation to support the EEI reported through the AES. The authorized agent shall upon request, provide the USPPI with the data elements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (xii) of this section, the date of export as submitted through the AES, the filer name, and the ITN. The authorized agent shall provide the following information through the AES:

(i) Date of export.

(ii) Transportation Reference Number.

(iii) Ultimate consignee.

(iv) Intermediate consignee, if applicable.

(v) Authorized agent name and address.

(vi) EIN or DUNS of the authorized agent.

(vii) Country of ultimate destination.

(viii) Method of transportation.

(ix) Carrier identification and conveyance name.

(x) Port of export.

(xi) Foreign port of unlading.

(xii) Shipping weight.

(xiii) ECCN.

(xiv) License or license exemption information.

(xv) Ultimate consignee type.
