
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### § 30.4 Electronic Export Information filing procedures, deadlines, and certification statements.
####### Direct

(1) For USML shipments, refer to the ITAR (22 CFR 123.22(b)(1)) for specific requirements concerning predeparture filing time frames. In addition, if a filer is unable to acquire an ITN because the AES or AESis not operating, the filer shall not export until the AES is operating and an ITN is acquired. The downtime filing citation is not to be used when the filer's system is down or experiencing delays.

(2) For non-USML shipments, except shipments between the United States and Puerto Rico, file the EEI and provide the ITN as follows (See § 30.4(b)(3), for filing timeframes for shipments between the United States and Puerto Rico):

(i) For vessel cargo, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI required by § 30.6 and provide the filing citation or exemption legend to the exporting carrier twenty-four hours prior to loading cargo on the vessel at the U.S. port where the cargo is laden.

(ii) For air cargo, including cargo being transported by Air Express Couriers, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI required by § 30.6 and provide the filing citation or exemption legend to the exporting carrier no later than two (2) hours prior to the scheduled departure time of the aircraft.

(iii) For truck cargo, including cargo departing by Express Consignment Couriers, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI required by § 30.6 and provide the filing citation or exemption legend to the exporting carrier no later than one (1) hour prior to the arrival of the truck at the United States border to go foreign.

(iv) For rail cargo, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI required by § 30.6 and provide the filing citation or exemption legend to the exporting carrier no later than two (2) hours prior to the time the train arrives at the U.S. border to go foreign.

(v) For mail, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the EEI as required by § 30.6 and provide the proof of filing citation, postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, exemption or exclusion legend to the U.S. Postal Service no later than two (2) hours prior to exportation.

(vi) For all other modes, the USPPI or the authorized agent shall file the required EEI no later than two (2) hours prior to exportation.

(3) For shipments between the United States and Puerto Rico, the USPPI or authorized agent shall provide the proof of filing citation, postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, exemption or exclusion legend to the exporting carrier by the time the shipment arrives at the port of unlading.
