
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.5 Electronic Export Information filing processes and standards.
####### Postdeparture filing approval process.,www.census.gov/aes.

(c)Postdeparture filing is a privilege granted to approved USPPIs for their EEI to be filed up to five (5) calendar days after the date of export. The USPPI or its authorized agent may not transmit EEI postdeparture for certain types of shipments that are identified in ยง 30.4(a). The USPPI may apply for postdeparture filing privileges by submitting a postdeparture filing application atAn authorized agent may not apply on behalf of a USPPI. The Census Bureau will distribute the applications submitted by USPPI's who are applying for postdeparture to the CBP and the other federal government partnership agencies for their review and approval. Failure to meet the standards of the Census Bureau, CBP or any of the partnership agencies is reason for denial of the AES applicant for postdeparture filing privileges. Each partnership agency will develop its own internal postdeparture filing acceptance standards, and each agency will notify the Census Bureau of the USPPI's success or failure to meet that agency's acceptance standards. Any partnership agency may require additional information from USPPIs that are applying for postdeparture filing. The Census Bureau will notify the USPPI of the decision to either deny or approve its application for postdeparture filing privileges within ninety (90) calendar days of receipt of the postdeparture filing application by the Census Bureau.
