
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.5 Electronic Export Information filing processes and standards.
####### Grounds for denial of postdeparture filing status.

(1)The Census Bureau may deny a USPPI's application for postdeparture filing privileges for any of the following reasons:

(i) There is no history of filing for the USPPI through the AES.

(ii) The USPPI's volume of EEI reported through the AES does not warrant participation in postdeparture filing.

(iii) The USPPI or its authorized agent has failed to submit EEI through the AES in a timely and accurate manner.

(iv) The USPPI has a history of noncompliance with the Census Bureau export regulations contained in this part.

(v) The USPPI has been indicted, convicted, or is currently under investigation for a felony involving a violation of federal export laws or regulations and the Census Bureau has evidence of probable cause supporting such violation, or the USPPI is in violation of Census Bureau export regulations contained in this part.

(vi) The USPPI has made or caused to be made in the LOI a false or misleading statement or omission with respect to any material fact.

(vii) The USPPI would pose a significant threat to national security interests such that its participation in postdeparture filing should be denied.

(viii) The USPPI has multiple violations of either the EAR (15 CFR 730 through 774) or the ITAR (22 CFR 120 through 130) within the last three (3) years.

(ix) The USPPI fails to demonstrate the ability to meet the AES predeparture filing requirements.
