
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.6 Electronic Export Information data elements.
####### Adjustments.

(ii)When necessary, make the following adjustments to obtain the value.

(A) Where goods are sold at a point other than the port of export, freight, insurance, and other charges required in moving the goods from their U.S. point of origin to the exporting carrier at the port of export or border crossing point shall be added to the selling price (as defined in paragraph (a)(17)(i) of this section) for purposes of reporting the value in the EEI.

(B) Where the actual amount of freight, insurance, and other domestic costs is not available, an estimate of the domestic costs shall be made and added to the cost of the goods or selling price to derive the value to be reported in the EEI. Add the estimated domestic costs to the cost or selling price of the goods to obtain the value to be reported in the EEI.

(C) Where goods are sold at a "delivered" price to the foreign destination, the cost of loading the goods on the exporting carrier, if any, and freight, insurance, and other costs beyond the port of export shall be subtracted from the selling price for purposes of reporting value in the EEI. If the actual amount of such costs is not available, an estimate of the costs should be subtracted from the selling price.

(D) Costs added to or subtracted from the selling price in accordance with the instructions in this paragraph (a)(17)(ii) should not be shown separately in the EEI, but the value reported should be the value after making such adjustments, where required, to arrive at the value of the goods at the U.S. port of export.
