
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.7 Annotating the bill of lading, air waybill, or other commercial loading documents with proof of filing citations, and exemption legends.

(a) Items identified on the USML shall meet the predeparture reporting requirements identified in the ITAR (22 CFR 120 through 130) for the U.S. State Department requirements concerning the time and place of filing. For USML shipments, the proof of filing citations shall include the statement in "AES," followed by the returned confirmation number provided by the AES when the transmission is accepted, referred to as the ITN.

(b) For shipments other than USML, the USPPI or the authorized agent is responsible for annotating the proper proof of filing citation or exemption legend on the first page of the bill of lading, air waybill, export shipping instructions or other commercial loading documents. The USPPI or the authorized agent must provide the proof of filing citation or exemption legend to the exporting carrier. The carrier must annotate the proof of filing citation, exemption or exclusion legends on the carrier's outbound manifest when required. The carrier is responsible for presenting the appropriate proof of filing citation or exemption legend to CBP Port Director at the port of export as stated in subpart E of this part. Such presentation shall be without material change or amendment of the proof of filing citation, postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, or exemption legend as provided to the carrier by the USPPI or the authorized agent. The proof of filing citation will identify that the export information has been accepted as transmitted. The postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, or exemption legend will identify that no filing is required prior to export. The proof of filing citations, postdeparture filing citations, or exemption legends shall appear on the bill of lading, air waybill or other commercial loading documentation and shall be clearly visible. The AES filing citation, exemption or exclusion legends are provided for in appendix B of this part. The exporting carrier shall annotate the manifest or other carrier documentation with the AES filing citations, exemption or exclusions legends.

(c) Exports of rough diamonds classified under HS subheadings 7102.10, 7102.21, and 7102.31 require the proof of filing citation, as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, to be indicated on the Kimberley Process Certificate (KPC). In addition, the KPC must be faxed by the USPPI or U.S. authorized agent to the Census Bureau on (800) 457-7328, or provided by other methods as permitted by the Census Bureau, immediately after export of the shipment from the United States.
