
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 30.9 Transmitting and correcting Electronic Export Information.

(a) The USPPI or the authorized filing agent is responsible for electronically transmitting accurate EEI as known at the time of filing in the AES and transmitting any changes to that information as soon as they are known. Corrections, cancellations, or amendments to that information shall be electronically identified and transmitted to the AES for all required fields as soon as possible. The provisions of this paragraph relating to the reporting of corrections, cancellations, or amendments to EEI, shall not be construed as a relaxation of the requirements of the rules and regulations pertaining to the preparation and filing of EEI. Failure to correct the EEI is a violation of the provisions of this part.

(b) For shipments where the USPPI or the authorized agent has received an error message from AES, the corrections shall take place as required. Fatal error messages are sent to filers when EEI is not accepted in the AES and update rejected messages are sent when a correction is not accepted in the AES. Fatal errors must be corrected and EEI resubmitted prior to export for shipments filed predeparture and for post-departure shipments but not later than five (5) calendar days after the date of export. Failure to respond to fatal error messages for shipments filed predeparture prior to export of the cargo subjects the principal party or authorized agent to penalties provided for in Subpart H of this part. Failing to transmit corrections to the AES constitutes a violation of the regulations in this part and renders such principal party or authorized agent subject to the penalties provided for in Subpart H of this part. Update rejected messages must be corrected as soon as possible. For EEI that generates a warning message, the correction shall be made within four (4) calendar days of receipt of the original transmission. For EEI that generates a verify message, the correction, when warranted, shall be made within four (4) calendar days of receipt of the message. A compliance alert indicates that the shipment was not reported in accordance with the FTR. The USPPI or the authorized agent is required to review its filing practices and take required corrective actions to conform with export reporting requirements.
