
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Export Control and Licensing Requirements
###### ยง 30.16 Export Administration Regulations.

The Export Administration Regulations (EAR) issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce, BIS, contain additional reporting requirements pertaining to EEI (see 15 CFR parts 730-774).

(a) The EAR requires that export information be filed for shipments from U.S. Possessions to foreign countries or areas. (see 15 CFR 758.1(b) and 772.1, definition of the United States.)

(b) Requirements to place certain export control information in the EEI are found in the EAR. (See 15 CFR 758.1(g) and 15 CFR 758.2).

(c) Requirements to place certain export control information on export control documents for shipments exempt from AES filing requirements. (See 15 CFR 758.1(d)).

(d) A shipment destined for a country listed in Country Group E:1 or E:2 as set forth in Supplement No. 1 to 15 CFR part 740 shall require EEI filings regardless of value unless such shipment is eligible for an exemption in ยง 30.37(y) and does not require a license by BIS or any other Federal Government Agency.

(e) Goods licensed by BIS where the country of ultimate destination is the United States or goods destined to international waters where the person(s) or entity assuming control of the item(s) is a citizen or permanent resident alien of the United States or a juridical entity organized under the laws of the United States or a jurisdiction within the United States shall be excluded from EEI filing.
