
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Special Provisions and Specific-Type Transactions
###### ยง 30.28 Split shipments.

A split shipment is a shipment covered by a single EEI record booked for export on one conveyance that is divided for shipment on more than one conveyance by the exporting carrier prior to export. The exporting carrier must file the manifest in accordance with CBP regulations indicating that the cargo was sent on two or more of the same type of conveyance of the same carrier leaving from the same port of export within 24 hours by vessel or 7 days by air, truck, or rail. For the succeeding parts of the shipment that are exported within the time frames specified above, a new EEI record will not be required. However, for the succeeding parts of the shipment that are not exported within the time frames specified above, a new EEI record must be filed and amendments must be made to the original EEI record. If a new EEI record is required, the original ITN data element may be used. The following procedures apply for split shipments:

(a) The carrier shall submit the manifest to the CBP Port Director with the manifest covering the conveyance on which the first part of the split shipment is exported and shall make no changes to the EEI. However, the manifest shall show in the "number of packages" column the actual portion of the declared total quantity being carried and shall carry a notation to indicate "Split Shipment" e.g., "3 of 10-Split Shipment." All associated manifests with the notation "Split Shipment" will have identical ITNs if exported within 24 hours by vessel or 7 days by air, truck, or rail.

(b) On each subsequent manifest covering a conveyance on which any part of a split shipment is exported, a prominent notation "SPLIT SHIPMENT", e.g. "4 of 10-Split shipment" shall be made on the manifest for identification. On the last shipment, the notation shall read "SPLIT SHIPMENT, FINAL, e.g., "10 of 10 Split Shipment, Final"." Each subsequent manifest covering a part of a split shipment shall also show in the "number of packages" column only the goods carried on that particular conveyance and a reference to the total number originally declared for export (for example, 5 of 11, or 5/11). Immediately following the line showing the portion of the split shipment carried on that conveyance, a notation will be made showing the bill of lading number, air waybill number, or other commercial loading documents shown in the original EEI and the portions of the originally declared total carried on each previous conveyance, together with the number and date of each such previous conveyance.
