
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Special Provisions and Specific-Type Transactions
###### ยง 30.29 Reporting of repairs and replacements.
####### Goods that are covered under warranty.

(b)(1) Goods that are reexported after repair under warranty shall follow the procedures in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section as appropriate. It is recommended that the bill of lading, air waybill, or other loading documents include the statement, "This product was repaired under warranty."

(2) Goods that are replaced under warranty at no charge to the customer shall include the statement, "Product replaced under warranty, value for EEI purposes" on the bill of lading, air waybill, or other commercial loading documents. Place the notation below the proof of filing citation, postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, exemption or exclusion legend on the commercial loading documents. Report the Schedule B number or Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States Annotated (HTSUSA) commodity classification number of the replacement parts. For goods not licensed by a U.S. Government agency, report the value of the replacement parts in accordance with ยง 30.6(a)(17). For goods licensed by a U.S. Government agency, report the value and license value in accordance with ยง 30.6(a)(17) and ยง 30.6(b)(15) respectively.
