
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Exemptions From the Requirements for the Filing of Electronic Export Information
###### ยง 30.36 Exemption for shipments destined to Canada.

(a) Except as noted in ยง 30.2(a)(1)(iv), and in paragraph (b) of this section, shipments originating in the United States where the country of ultimate destination is Canada are exempt from the EEI reporting requirements of this part.

(b) This exemption does not apply to the following types of export shipments (These shipments shall be reported in the same manner as for all other exports, except household goods, which require limited reporting):

(1) Sent for storage in Canada, but ultimately destined for third countries.

(2) Exports moving from the United States through Canada to a third destination.

(3) Requiring a Department of State, DDTC, export license under the ITAR (22 CFR 120-130).

(4) Requiring a Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, license or requiring reporting under the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR 758.1(b)).

(5) Subject to the ITAR, but exempt from license requirements.

(6) Classified as rough diamonds under the 6-digit HS subheadings (7102.10, 7102.21, or 7102.31).

(7) Used self-propelled vehicles as defined in 19 CFR 192.1 of U.S. Customs and Border Protection regulations, regardless of value or country of destination.
