
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart F - Import Requirements
###### ยง 30.50 General requirements for filing import entries.

Electronic entry summary filing through the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE), paper import entry summaries (CBP-7501), or paper record of vessel foreign repair or equipment purchase (CBP-226) shall be completed by the importer of record or its licensed customs broker and filed directly with CBP in accordance with 19 CFR parts 1-199. Information on all mail and informal entries required for statistical and CBP purposes shall be reported, including value not subject to duty. Upon request, the importer of record or the importer's licensed customs broker shall provide the Census Bureau with information or documentation necessary to verify the accuracy of the reported information, or to resolve problems regarding the reported import transaction received by the Census Bureau.

(a) Import information for statistical purposes shall be filed for goods shipped as follows:

(1) Entering the United States from foreign countries.

(2) Admitted to U.S. FTZs.

(3) From the U.S. Virgin Islands.

(4) From other nonforeign areas (except Puerto Rico).

(b) Sources for collecting import statistics include the following:

(1) CBP's ABI Program (see 19 CFR Subpart A, Part 143).

(2) CBP-7501 paper entry summaries required for individual transactions (see 19 CFR Subpart B, Part 142).

(3) CBP-226, Record of Vessel Foreign Repair or Equipment Purchase (see 19 CFR 4.7 and 4.14).

(4) CBP-214, Application for Foreign Trade Zone Admission and/or Status Designation (Statistical copy).

(5) Electronic CBP Form 214 Admissions (e214).

(c) The Kimberley Process Certificate (KPC) for all imports of rough diamonds classified under HS subheadings 7102.10, 7102.21, 7102.31 must be faxed by the importer or customs broker to the Census Bureau on (800) 457-7328, or provided by other methods as permitted by the Census Bureau, immediately after entry of the shipment in the United States.
