
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart F - Import Requirements
###### ยง 30.54 Special provisions for imports from Canada.

(a) When certain softwood lumber products described under HTSUSA subheadings 4407.1001, 4409.1010, 4409.1090, and 4409.1020 are imported from Canada, import entry records are required to show a valid Canadian region of manufacture code. The Canadian region of manufacture is determined on a first mill basis (the point at which the item was first manufactured into a covered lumber product). Canadian region of manufacture is the first region where the subject goods underwent a change in tariff classification to the tariff classes cited in this paragraph. The Canadian region code should be transmitted in the electronic ABI summaries. The Canadian region of manufacture code should replace the region of origin code on CBP-7501, entry summary form. These requirements apply only for imports of certain softwood lumber products for which the region of origin is Canada.

(b) All other imports from Canada, including certain softwood lumber products not covered in paragraph (a) of this section, will require the two letter designation of the Canadian province of origin to be reported on U.S. entry summary records. This information is required only for U.S. imports that under applicable CBP rules of origin are determined to originate in Canada. For nonmanufactured goods determined to be of Canadian origin, the province of origin is defined as the region where the exported goods were originally grown, mined, or otherwise produced. For goods of Canadian origin that are manufactured or assembled in Canada, with the exception of the certain softwood lumber products described in paragraph (a) of this section, the region of origin is that in which the final manufacture or assembly is performed prior to exporting that good to the United States. In cases where the region in which the goods were manufactured, assembled, grown, mined, or otherwise produced is unknown, the province in which the Canadian vendor is located can be reported. For those reporting on paper forms the region of origin code replaces the country of origin code on CBP Form 7501, entry summary form.

(c) All electronic ABI entry summaries for imports originating in Canada also require the Canadian region of origin code to be transmitted for each entry summary line item.

(d) The region of origin code replaces the region of origin code only for imports that have been determined, under applicable CBP rules, to originate in Canada. Valid Canadian region/territory codes are:
