
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 30 - FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart F - Import Requirements
###### ยง 30.55 Confidential information, import entries, and withdrawals.

The contents of the statistical copies of import entries and withdrawals on file with the Census Bureau are treated as confidential and will not be released without authorization by CBP, in accordance with 19 CFR 103.5 relating to the copies on file in CBP offices. The importer or import broker must provide the Census Bureau with information or documentation necessary to verify the accuracy or resolve problems regarding the reported import transaction.

(a) The basic responsibility for obtaining and providing the information required by the general statistical headnotes of the HTSUSA rests with the person filing the import entry. This is provided for in section 484(a) of the Tariff Act, 19 CFR 141.61(e) of CBP regulations, and ยง 30.50 of this subpart. CBP Regulations 19 CFR 141.61(a) specify that the entry summary data clearly set forth all information required.

(b) 19 CFR 141.61(e) of CBP regulations provides that penalty procedures relating to erroneous statistical information shall not be invoked against any person who attempts to comply with the statistical requirements of the General Statistical Notes of the HTSUSA. However, in those instances where there is evidence that statistical suffixes are misstated to avoid quota action, or a misstatement of facts is made to avoid import controls or restrictions related to specific commodities, the importer or its licensed broker should be aware that the appropriate actions will be taken under 19 U.S.C. 1592, as amended.
