
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 4 - DISCLOSURE OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### ยง 4.25 Disclosure of requested records to individuals.
###### i.e.

(a)(1) The responsible Privacy Act Officer shall act promptly upon each request. Every effort will be made to respond within ten working days (, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) of the date of receipt. If a response cannot be made within ten working days due to unusual circumstances, the Privacy Act Officer shall send an acknowledgment during that period providing information on the status of the request and asking for any further information that may be necessary to process the request. "Unusual circumstances" shall include circumstances in which:

(i) A search for and collection of requested records from inactive storage, field facilities or other establishments is required;

(ii) A voluminous amount of data is involved;

(iii) Information on other individuals must be separated or expunged from the particular record; or

(iv) Consultations with other agencies having a substantial interest in the determination of the request are necessary.

(2) If the Privacy Act Officer fails to send an acknowledgment within ten working days, as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the requester may ask the Assistant General Counsel for Litigation, Employment, and Oversight to take corrective action. No failure of a Privacy Act Officer to send an acknowledgment shall confer administrative finality for purposes of judicial review.

(3) Inclusion of SSNs on responsive documents.

(i) The Department shall redact SSNs from responsive documents provided to requesters where feasible. Where full redaction is not feasible, partial redaction to create a truncated SSN shall be preferred to no redaction. The following conditions must be met for the inclusion of an unredacted (full) SSN or partially redacted (truncated) SSN on a responsive document:

(ii) The inclusion of the full SSN or truncated SSN of an individual must be required or authorized by law,

(iii) The inclusion of the full SSN or truncated SSN of an individual must be determined by the Senior Agency Official for Privacy and Departmental Privacy Act Officer to be necessary to fulfill a compelling Department business need; and

(iv) The full SSN of an individual may be included only on documents listed on the USMDL.

(4) The following requirements apply when the Department mails or delivers responsive documents containing SSNs or truncated SSNs:

(i) The full SSN of an individual may be included only on documents listed on the USMDL.

(ii) For documents that are listed on the USMDL and that include the full SSN of an individual, the signature of the recipient is required upon delivery.

(iii) For documents that include the truncated form of the SSN of an individual, the signature of the recipient is required upon delivery.

(iv) The full SSN, the truncated SSN, any part of the SSN of an individual must not be visible from the outside of the envelope or package.
