
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 4 - DISCLOSURE OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### § 4.25 Disclosure of requested records to individuals.
###### Methods of access.

(2)The following methods of access to records by an individual may be available depending on the circumstances of a given situation:

(i) Inspection in person may be had in the office specified by the Privacy Act Officer granting access, during the hours indicated in Appendix A to this part;

(ii) Transfer of records to a Federal facility more convenient to the individual may be arranged, but only if the Privacy Act Officer determines that a suitable facility is available, that the individual's access can be properly supervised at that facility, and that transmittal of the records to that facility will not unduly interfere with operations of the Department or involve unreasonable costs, in terms of both money and manpower; and,

(iii) Copies of documents may be mailed at the request of the individual and may be subject to payment of the fees prescribed in §§ 4.25(a)(3) and 4.31. In the event that the Department, at its own initiative, elects to provide a copy by mail, no fee will be charged to the individual.

(iv) Copies of documents listed on the USMDL that include full SSNs and that are requested by an individual are subject to payment of the fees prescribed in § 4.31.

(v) Documents containing SSNs or truncated SSNs that are required to be returned by the individual to the Department will be mailed or delivered along with a prepaid mail or delivery service envelope at the expense of the Department.

(c) Access to medical records is governed by the provisions of § 4.26.

(d) The Department shall supply such other information and assistance at the time of access as to make the record intelligible to the individual.

(e) The Department reserves the right to limit access to copies and abstracts of original records, rather than the original records. This election would be appropriate, for example, when the record is in an automated data medium such as tape or disc, when the record contains information on other individuals, and when deletion of information is permissible under exemptions (for example, 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2)). In no event shall original records of the Department be made available to the individual except under the immediate supervision of the Privacy Act Officer or his or her designee.

(f) Any individual who requests access to a record pertaining to that individual may be accompanied by another individual of his or her choice. "Accompanied" includes discussing the record in the presence of the other individual. The individual to whom the record pertains shall authorize the presence of the other individual in writing. The authorization shall include the name of the other individual, a specific description of the record to which access is sought, the Department control number assigned to the request, the date, and the signature of the individual to whom the record pertains. The other individual shall sign the authorization in the presence of the Privacy Act Officer. An individual shall not be required to state a reason or otherwise justify his or her decision to be accompanied by another individual during personal access to a record.
