
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 50 - SPECIAL SERVICES AND STUDIES BY THE BUREAU OF THE CENSUS
##### ยง 50.1 General.

(a) Fee structure for age search and citizenship service, special population censuses, and for foreign trade and shipping statistics.

(b) In accordance with the provisions of the acts authorizing the Department of Commerce to make special statistical surveys and studies, and to perform other specified services upon the payment of the cost thereof, the following fee structure is hereby established. No transcript of any record will be furnished under authority of these acts which would violate existing or future acts requiring that information furnished be held confidential.

(c) Requests for age search and citizenship service should be addressed to the Personal Census Search Unit, Data Preparation Division, Bureau of the Census, P.O. Box 1545, Jeffersonville, Indiana 47131. Application forms may be obtained at Department of Commerce field offices or Social Security offices or by writing to the Jeffersonville, Indiana office.

(d) If a search is unsuccessful and additional information for a further search is requested by the Census Bureau, such information must be received within 90 days of the request or the case will be considered closed. Additional information received after 90 days must be accompanied by a new fee and will be considered a new request.
