
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 50 - SPECIAL SERVICES AND STUDIES BY THE BUREAU OF THE CENSUS
##### ยง 50.40 Fee structure for statistics for city blocks in the 1980 Census of Population and Housing.
###### Fee:

(1)(i) Population size:

(ii) The final fee will be based upon the 1980 census population counts. A refund or additional charge will be made if the contracting area is in a different population size group as a result of the census.

(iii) The cost for an area with a population of 10,000 or more will be determined on an individual basis.

(iv) Multiple area contracts may be negotiated at a savings.

(v) The fee is based on estimated 1980 costs. If the 1980 cost exceeds the estimated cost, an additional fee may be requested from the contracting area. If actual costs are less than the estimated cost, a refund may be made.

(vi) Any incorporated place which contracts for block statistics and which reaches a population of 10,000 or more in the 1980 census will have the fee completely refunded, as the place will then be considered to be part of the regular block statistics program.

(vii) If the area submits maps which are not adequate for the Bureau's purposes (see Maps, below) and therefore have to be redrafted by the Bureau, a surcharge of $300 per map sheet requiring revision will be applied to the fee for the particular area.
