
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter I - Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce
#### PART 50 - SPECIAL SERVICES AND STUDIES BY THE BUREAU OF THE CENSUS
##### ยง 50.60 Request for certification.
###### Certification process.

(a)Upon request, the Census Bureau certifies population and housing counts of standard governmental units to reflect boundary updates, including new incorporations, annexations, mergers, and so forth. The Census Bureau will produce a certificate, that is, a signed statement by a Census Bureau official attesting to the authenticity of the certified Census 2000 population and housing counts to reflect updates to the legal boundaries of governmental units after those in effect for Census 2000. This service will be a permanent process, but one that will be temporarily suspended during future decennial censuses. Typically, the Census Bureau will suspend this service, and direct its resources to the decennial census, for a total of five years-the two years preceding the decennial census, the decennial census year, and the two years following it. The Census Bureau will issue notices in theannouncing when it suspends and, in turn, resumes, the service.

(1) The Census Bureau charges customers a preset fee for this service according to the amount of work involved in compiling the population and housing counts, as determined by the resources expended to meet customer requirements and the set cost of the product (one certificate). Certification fees may increase somewhat if the customer requests additional original certificates. Each additional certificate costs $35.00. Certification prices are shown in the following table:

(2) [Reserved]
