
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter II - National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Measurement Services
##### PART 200 - POLICIES, SERVICES, PROCEDURES, AND FEES
###### ยง 200.115 Description of services and list of fees, incorporation by reference.

(a) NIST Special Publication 250, "Calibration and Related Measurement Services of the National Institute of Standards & Technology" is hereby incorporated by reference, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and 1 CFR Part 51. SP 250 states the authority under which NIST performs various types of measurement services including calibrations and tests and charges fees therefor, states the general conditions under which the public may secure such services, decribes these services in considerable detail, and lists the fees to be charged, and sets out the instructions for requesting them in an appendix which is reviewed, revised and reissued semi-annually (December and June). The Director, Office of the Federal Register, approved the incorporation by reference on December 28, 1967.

(b) SP 250 is available at the following places:

(1) Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.

(2) Technical Information and Publications Division, National Institute of Standards & Technology, Washington, DC 20234.

(3) District Offices of the U.S. Department of Commerce.

(4) Federal Depository Libraries.

(c) Revisions of SP 250 will be issued from time to time by the National Institute of Standards & Technology, Washington, DC 20234.

(d) Further information concerning policies, procedures, services, and fees may be obtained by writing the Office of Measurement Services, National Institute of Standards & Technology, Washington, DC 20234.
