
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 4 - DISCLOSURE OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act
##### § 4.34 Specific exemptions.

(a)(1) Certain systems of records under the Act that are maintained by the Department may occasionally contain material subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), relating to national defense and foreign policy materials. The systems of records published in theby the Department that are within this exemption are: COMMERCE/BIS-1, COMMERCE/ITA-2, COMMERCE/ITA-3, COMMERCE/NOAA-11, COMMERCE/PAT-TM-4, COMMERCE/DEPT-12, COMMERCE/DEPT-13, COMMERCE/DEPT-14, COMMERCE/DEPT-25, and COMMERCE/DEPT-27.

(2) The Department hereby asserts a claim to exemption of such materials wherever they might appear in such systems of records, or any systems of records, at present or in the future. The materials would be exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), and (f), because the materials are required by Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of the national defense and foreign policy.

(b) The specific exemptions determined to be necessary and proper with respect to systems of records maintained by the Department, including the parts of each system to be exempted, the provisions of the Act from which they are exempted, and the justification for the exemption, are as follows:

(1) Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). The systems of records exempt hereunder appear in paragraph (a) of this section. The claims for exemption of COMMERCE/DEPT-12, COMMERCE/BIS-1, COMMERCE/NOAA-5, COMMERCE/DEPT-25, and COMMERCE/DEPT-27 under this paragraph are subject to the condition that the general exemption claimed in § 4.33(b) is held to be invalid.

(2)(i) Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). The systems of records exempt (some only conditionally), the sections of the Act from which exempted, and the reasons therefor are as follows:

(A) Individuals identified in Export Administration compliance proceedings or investigations-COMMERCE/BIS-1, but only on condition that the general exemption claimed in § 4.33(b)(1) is held to be invalid;

(B) Individuals involved in export transactions-COMMERCE/ITA-2;

(C) Fisheries Law Enforcement Case Files-COMMERCE/NOAA-5, but only on condition that the general exemption claimed in § 4.33(b)(2) is held to be invalid;

(D) Investigative and Inspection Records-COMMERCE/DEPT-12, but only on condition that the general exemption claimed in § 4.33(b)(3) is held to be invalid;

(E) Investigative Records-Persons Within the Investigative Jurisdiction of the Department-COMMERCE/DEPT-13;

(F) Access Control and Identity Management System-COMMERCE/DEPT-25, but only on condition that the general exemption claimed in § 4.33(b)(4) is held to be invalid;

(G) Investigation and Threat Management Records-COMMERCE/DEPT-27, but only on condition that the general exemption claimed in § 4.33(b)(4) is held to be invalid;

(ii) The foregoing are exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f). The reasons for asserting the exemption are to prevent subjects of investigation from frustrating the investigatory process; to ensure the proper functioning and integrity of law enforcement activities; to prevent disclosure of investigative techniques; to maintain the ability to obtain necessary information; to fulfill commitments made to sources to protect their identities and the confidentiality of information; and to avoid endangering these sources and law enforcement personnel. Special note is taken that the proviso clause in this exemption imports due process and procedural protections for the individual. The existence and general character of the information exempted shall be made known to the individual to whom it pertains.

(3)(i) Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4). The systems of records exempt, the sections of the Act from which exempted, and the reasons therefor are as follows:

(A) Special Censuses, Surveys, and Other Studies-COMMECE/CENSUS-3;

(B) Economic Survey Collection-COMMERCE/CENSUS-4;

(C) Decennial Census Program-COMMERCE/CENSUS-5;

(D) Population Census Records for 1910 & All Subsequent Decennial Census-COMMERCE/CENSUS-6;

(E) Other Agency Surveys & Reimbursable-COMMERCE/CENSUS-7;

(F) Statistical Administrative Records System-COMMERCE/CENSUS-8;

(G) Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics System-COMMERCE/CENSUS-9; and

(H) Foreign Trade Statistics-COMMERCE/CENSUS-12.

(ii) The foregoing are exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) (H), and (I), and (f). The reasons for asserting the exemption are to comply with the prescription of Title 13 of the United States Code, especially sections 8 and 9 relating to prohibitions against disclosure, and to avoid needless consideration of these records whose sole statistical use comports fully with a basic purpose of the Act, namely, that no adverse determinations are made from these records as to any identifiable individual.

(4)(i) Exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5 ). The systems of records exempt (some only conditionally), the sections of the Act from which exempted, and the reasons therefor are as follows:

(A) Applications to U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA)-COMMERCE/MA-1;

(B) USMMA Midshipman Medical Files-COMMERCE/MA-17;

(C) USMMA Midshipman Personnel Files-COMMERCE/MA-18;

(D) USMMA Non-Appropriated Fund Employees-COMMERCE/MA-19;

(E) Applicants for the NOAA Corps-COMMERCE/NOAA-I;

(F) Commissioned Officer Official Personnel Folders-COMMERCE/NOAA-3;

(G) Conflict of lnterest Records, Appointed Officials-COMMERCE/DEPT-3;

(H) Investigative and Inspection Records-COMMERCE/DEPT-12, but only on condition that the general exemption claimed in § 4.33(b)(3) is held to be invalid;

(I) Investigative Records-Persons within the Investigative Jurisdiction of the Department COMMERCE/DEPT-13;

(J) Litigation, Claims, and Administrative Proceeding Records-COMMERCE/DEPT-14;

(K) Access Control and Identity Management System-COMMERCE/DEPT-25, but only on condition that the general exemption claimed in § 4.33(b)(4) is held to be invalid; and

(L) Investigation and Threat Management Records-COMMERCE/DEPT-27, but only on condition that the general exemption claimed in § 4.33(b)(4) is held to be invalid.

(ii) The foregoing are exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), and (f). The reasons for asserting the exemption are to maintain the ability to obtain candid and necessary information, to fulfill commitments made to sources to protect the confidentiality of information, to avoid endangering these sources and, ultimately, to facilitate proper selection or continuance of the best applicants or persons for a given position or contract. Special note is made of the limitation on the extent to which this exemption may be asserted. The existence and general character of the information exempted will be made known to the individual to whom it pertains.

(c) At the present time, the Department claims no exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k) (3), (6) and (7).
