
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 4 - DISCLOSURE OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
#### Appendix A to Part 4 - Freedom of Information Public Inspection Facilities, and Addresses for Requests for Records Under the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act, and Requests for Correction or Amendment Under the Privacy Act
##### http://www.doc.gov,,i.e.,,http://www.doc.gov.

Each address listed below is the respective component's mailing address for receipt and processing of requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act, for requests for correction or amendment under the Privacy Act and, unless otherwise noted, its public inspection facility for records available to the public under the Freedom of Information Act. Requests should be addressed to the component the requester knows or has reason to believe has possession of, control over, or primary concern with the records sought. Otherwise, requests should be addressed to the Departmental FOIA Office identified in paragraph (1) of this appendix. The telephone and facsimile numbers for each component are included after its address, as well as email addresses for components that maintain an email address for the purposes of receiving of FOIA and Privacy Act requests. Records of components that are required to be made publicly available are available electronically either through the Department's "Electronic FOIA Library" on the Department's Web site,as described in ยง 4.2(a), or the component's separate online Electronic FOIA Library as indicated below. Components that maintain a public inspection facility are designated as such below. These public inspection facilities records are open to the public Monday through Friday (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. local time of the facility at issue. The Departmental Freedom of Information Act Officer is authorized to revise this appendix to reflect changes in the information contained in it. Any such revisions shall be posted on the Department's "FOIA Home Page" link found at the Department's Web site,
