
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter II - National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter J - Accreditation and Assessment Programs
##### PART 280 - FASTENER QUALITY
###### Subpart C - Enforcement
####### ยง 280.204 Institution of administrative enforcement proceedings.
######## Charging letters.

(a)The Director of the Office of Export Enforcement (OEE) may begin administrative enforcement proceedings under this part by issuing a charging letter. The charging letter shall constitute the formal complaint and will state that there is reason to believe that a violation of this part has occurred. It will set forth the essential facts about each alleged violation, refer to the specific regulatory or other provisions involved, and give notice of the sanctions available under the Act and this part. The charging letter will inform the respondent that failure to answer the charges as provided in ยง 280.207 of this part will be treated as a default under ยง 280.208 of this part, that the respondent is entitled to a hearing if a written demand for one is requested with the answer, and that the respondent may be represented by counsel, or by other authorized representative. A copy of the charging letter shall be filed with the administrative law judge, which filing shall toll the running of the applicable statute of limitations. Charging letters may be amended or supplemented at any time before an answer is filed, or, with permission of the administrative law judge, afterwards. The Department may unilaterally withdraw charging letters at any time, by notifying the respondent and the administrative law judge.
