
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter II - National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter J - Accreditation and Assessment Programs
##### PART 280 - FASTENER QUALITY
###### Subpart C - Enforcement
####### ยง 280.218 Decision of the administrative law judge.
######## Decision and order.

(b)After considering the entire record in the proceeding, the administrative law judge will issue a written initial decision. The decision will include findings of fact, conclusions of law, and findings as to whether there has been a violation of the Act, this part, or any order issued thereunder. If the administrative law judge finds that the evidence of record is insufficient to sustain a finding that a violation has occurred with respect to one or more charges, the ALJ shall order dismissal of the charges in whole or in part, as appropriate. If the administrative law judge finds that one or more violations have been committed, the ALJ may issue an order imposing administrative sanctions, as provided in this part. The decision and order shall be served on each party, and shall become effective as the final decision of the Department 30 days after service, unless an appeal is filed in accordance with ยง 280.222 of this part. In determining the amount of any civil penalty the ALJ shall consider the nature, circumstances and gravity of the violation and, with respect to the person found to have committed the violation, the degree of culpability, any history of prior violations, the effect on ability to continue to do business, any good faith attempt to achieve compliance, ability to pay the penalty, and such other matters as justice may require.
