
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter II - National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter J - Accreditation and Assessment Programs
##### PART 280 - FASTENER QUALITY
###### Subpart D - Recordal of Insignia
####### Post-Recordal Maintenance
######## ยง 280.323 Transfer or assignment of the trademark registration or recorded insignia.

(a) A trademark application or registration which forms the basis of a fastener recordal may be transferred or assigned. Any transfer or assignment of such an application or registration must be recorded in the United States Patent and Trademark Office within three months of the transfer or assignment. A copy of such transfer or assignment must also be sent to: Director, United States Patent and Trademark Office, ATTN: FQA, 600 Dulany Street, MDE-10A71, Alexandria, VA 22314-5793.

(b) Upon transfer or assignment of a trademark application or registration which forms the basis of a certificate of recordal, the Director, USPTO, shall designate the certificate of recordal as inactive. The certificate of recordal shall be deemed inactive as of the effective date of the transfer or assignment. Certificates of recordal designated inactive due to transfer or assignment of a trademark application or registration cannot be reactivated.

(c) An assigned trademark application or registration may form the basis for a new application for recordal of a fastener insignia.

(d) A fastener insignia consisting of an alphanumeric designation issued by the Director, USPTO, can be transferred or assigned.

(e) Upon transfer or assignment of an alphanumeric designation, the Director, USPTO, shall designate such alphanumeric designation as inactive. The alphanumeric designation shall be deemed inactive as of the effective date of the transfer or assignment. Alphanumeric designations which are designated inactive due to transfer or assignment may be reactivated upon application by the assignee of such alphanumeric designation. Such application must meet all the requirements of ยง 280.310 and must include a copy of the pertinent portions of the document assigning rights in the alphanumeric designation. Such application must be filed within six months of the date of assignment.

(f) An alphanumeric designation that is reactivated after it has been transferred or assigned shall remain in active status until the expiration of the five year period that began upon the issuance of the alphanumeric designation to its original owner.
