
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 4a - CLASSIFICATION, DECLASSIFICATION, AND PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
#### ยง 4a.4 Classification authority.

(a) Authority to originally classify information as Secret or Confidential may be exercised only by the Secretary of Commerce and by officials to whom such authority is specifically delegated. No official of the Department is authorized to originally classify information as Top Secret.

(b) In accordance with section 1.3(c)(1) of E.O. 13526, delegations of original classification authority shall be limited to the minimum required to administer E.O. 13526. The Secretary of Commerce shall ensure that designated subordinate officials have a demonstrable and continuing need to exercise delegated original classification authority.

(c) In accordance with section 1.3(c)(4) of E.O. 13526, each delegation of original classification authority shall be in writing and the authority shall not be redelegated except as provided in E.O. 13526.

(d) In accordance with section 1.3(c)(4) of E.O. 13526, each delegation shall identify the official by name or position.

(e) In accordance with section 1.3(c)(5) of E.O. 13526, delegations of original classification authority shall be reported or made available by name or position to the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office in the National Archives and Records Administration.

(f) In accordance with section 1.3(d) of E.O. 13526, all original classification authorities and their designates shall receive training in proper classification (including the avoidance of over-classification) and declassification as provided in E.O. 13526 and its implementing directives at least once a calendar year.
