
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter II - National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter J - Accreditation and Assessment Programs
##### PART 287 - GUIDANCE ON FEDERAL CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT
###### ยง 287.1 Purpose and scope of this part.

(a) This part outlines Federal agencies' responsibilities for using conformity assessment to meet respective agency requirements in an efficient and cost-effective manner for the agency and its stakeholders. To reduce unnecessary complexity and make productive use of Federal resources, this part emphasizes that agencies should consider coordinating conformity assessment activities with those of other appropriate government agencies (Federal, State, and local) and with those in the private sector.

(b) Using conformity assessment in a manner consistent with this part supports U.S. Government efforts to meet trade obligations and demonstrate good regulatory practices, which reduces unnecessary obstacles to international trade and improves market access for products and services.

(c) This part applies to all agencies which set policy for, manage, operate, or use conformity assessment. This part does not preempt the agencies' authority and responsibility to make decisions authorized by statute or required to meet regulatory, procurement, or programmatic objectives and requirements. These decision-making activities include: determining the level of acceptable regulatory or procurement risk; setting the level of protection; balancing risk, cost, and availability of technology and technical resources (where statutes permit) in establishing regulatory, procurement, and program requirements.

(d) Each agency retains broad discretion in its selection and use of conformity assessment activities and may elect not to use or recognize alternative conformity assessment approaches if the agency deems the alternatives to be inappropriate, inadequate, or inconsistent with statutory criteria or programmatic objectives and requirements. Nothing contained in this part shall give any party any claim or cause of action against the Federal Government or any agency thereof. Each agency remains responsible for representation of the agency's views on conformity assessment in matters under its jurisdiction. Each agency also remains the primary point of contact for information on the agency's regulatory, procurement, or programmatic conformity assessment actions.
