
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 5 - OPERATION OF VENDING STANDS
#### ยง 5.4 Permits.

(a) No permit, lease, or other arrangement for the operation of a vending stand on property under control of the Department shall be entered into or renewed without first consulting the State licensing agency or equivalent authority.

(b) The permit shall be conditioned upon the vending stand meeting specified standards, including standards relating to appearance, safety, sanitation, maintenance, and efficiency of operation. Due regard shall be given to laws and regulations for the public welfare which are applicable, or would be applicable, if the property involved was not owned or controlled by the Federal Government.

(c) The permit shall specify the types of articles specified in section 2(a)(4) of the Act as amended (newspapers, periodicals, confections, tobacco products, articles dispensed automatically or in containers or wrappings in which they are placed before delivery to the vending stand). Such other related articles as the State licensing agency asks to be included shall be permitted to be sold, unless such factors as inadequacy of available facilities, safety, health, public welfare, or legal requirements demand otherwise.

(d) The permit shall contain a provision that alterations made by other than the United States shall be approved by and conducted under the supervision of an appropriate official of the Department or the primary organization unit concerned.

(e) The permit may contain other reasonable conditions necessary for the protection of the Government and prospective patrons of the stand.

(f) The permit shall describe the location of the stand proper and the location of any vending machines which are operated in conjunction with it.
