
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 5 - OPERATION OF VENDING STANDS
#### ยง 5.6 Appeals.

(a) In any instance where the Department of Commerce official as provided in ยง 5.3(c) and the State licensing agency fail to reach agreement concerning the granting, revocation, or modification of a permit, the location, method of operation, assignment of proceeds, or other terms of a permit (including articles which may be sold), the State licensing agency shall be notified in writing by the Commerce official concerned that it has the right to appeal such disagreements, within 30 days of the notice, to the Assistant Secretary for Administration for investigation and final decision.

(b) Upon receipt of a timely appeal the Assistant Secretary for Administration will cause a full investigation to be made. The State licensing agency shall be given an opportunity to present information pertinent to the facts and circumstances of the case. The complete investigation report including the recommendations of the investigating officer shall be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for Administration within 60 days from the date of the appeal.

(c) The Assistant Secretary for Administration will render a final decision on the appeal within 90 days of the date of appeal.

(d) The State licensing agency will be informed of the final decision on its appeal. Copies of the decision will be forwarded to the Department of Commerce official concerned and the Department of Education.
