
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 301 - INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR EDUCATIONAL AND SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 301.8 Instructions for entering instruments through Customs and Border Protection under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS.
####### Entry procedures.

(a)(1) An applicant desiring duty-free entry of an instrument may make a claim at the time of entry of the instrument into the Customs territory of the United States (as defined in 19 CFR 101.1) that the instrument is entitled to duty-free classification under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS.

(2) If no such claim is made the instrument shall be immediately classified without regard to subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS , duty will be assessed, and the entry liquidated in the ordinary course.

(3) If a claim is made for duty-free entry under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS , the entry shall be accepted without requiring a deposit of estimated duties provided that a copy of the form, stamped by Customs and Border Protection as accepted for transmittal to the Department of Commerce in accordance with ยง 301.4(b), is filed simultaneously with the entry.

(4) If a claim for duty-free entry under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS is made but is not accompanied by a copy of the properly stamped form, a deposit of the estimated duty is required. Before the entry is liquidated, the applicant must file with the CBP Port a properly stamped copy of the application form. In the event that the CBP Port does not receive a copy of the properly stamped application form before liquidation, the instrument shall be classified and liquidated in the ordinary course, without regard for subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS.

(5) Entry of an instrument after the Director's approval of an application. Whenever an institution defers entry until after it receives a favorable final determination on the application for duty-free entry of the instrument, either by delaying importation or by placing the instrument in a bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone, the importer shall file with the entry of the instrument (i) the stamped copy of the form, (ii) the institution's copy of the favorable final determination and (iii) proof that a bona fide order for the merchandise was placed on or before the 60th day after the favorable decision became final pursuant to ยง 301.7 of these regulations. Liquidation in such case shall be made under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS.
