
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 301 - INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS FOR EDUCATIONAL AND SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS
###### ยง 301.9 Uses and disposition of instruments entered under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS.

(a) An instrument granted duty-free entry may be transferred from the applicant institution to another eligible institution provided the receiving institution agrees not to use the instrument for commercial purposes within 5 years of the date of entry of the instrument. In such cases title to the instrument must be transferred directly between the institutions involved. An institution transferring a foreign instrument entered under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS within 5 years of its entry shall so inform the CBP Port in writing and shall include the following information:

(1) The name and address of the transferring institution.

(2) The name and address of the transferee.

(3) The date of transfer.

(4) A detailed description of the instrument.

(5) The serial number of the instrument and any accompanying accessories.

(6) The entry number, date of entry, and port of entry of the instrument.

(b) Whenever the circumstances warrant, and occasionally in any event, the fact of continued use for 5 years for noncommercial purposes by the applicant institution shall be verified by Customs and Border Protection.

(c) If an instrument is transferred in a manner other than specified above or is used for commercial purposes within 5 years of entry, the institution for which such instrument was entered shall promptly notify the Customs and Border Protection officials at the Port and shall be liable for the payment of duty in an amount determined on the basis of its condition as imported and the rate applicable to it.
