
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 303 - WATCHES, WATCH MOVEMENTS AND JEWELRY PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - Watches and Watch Movements
####### ยง 303.2 Definitions and forms.
######## Allocation

(12)refers to the distribution of all parts of a territorial share, or a portion thereof, among the several producers in a territory.

(13) Creditable wages and associated, creditable fringe benefits and creditable duty differentials eligible for the duty refund benefit include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Wages up to an amount equal to 65 percent of the contribution and benefit base for Social Security, as defined in the Social Security Act for the year in which wages were earned, paid to permanent residents of the insular possessions employed in a firm's 91/5 watch and watch movement program.

(A) Wages paid for the repair of watches up to an amount equal to 85 percent of the firm's total creditable wages.

(B) Wages paid to watch and watch movement assembly workers involved in the complete assembly of watches and watch movements which have entered the United States duty-free and have complied with the laws and regulations governing the program.

(C) Wages paid to watch and watch movement assembly workers involved in the complete assembly of watches, excluding the movement, only in situations where the desired movement can not be purchased unassembled and the producer has documentation establishing this.

(D) Wages paid to those persons engaged in the day-to-day assembly operations on the premises of the company office, wages paid to administrative employees working on the premises of the company office, wages paid to security employees and wages paid to servicing and maintenance employees if these services are integral to the assembly and manufacturing operations and the employees are working on the premises of the company office.

(E) Wages paid to persons engaged in both creditable and non-creditable assembly and repair operations may be credited proportionally provided the firm maintains production, shipping and payroll records adequate for the Departments' verification of the creditable portion.

(F) Wages paid to new permanent residents who have met the requirements of permanent residency in accordance with the Departments' regulations, along with meeting all other creditable wage requirements of the regulations, which must be documented and verified to the satisfaction of the Secretaries.

(ii) The combined creditable amount of individual health and life insurance per year, for each full-time permanent resident employee who works on the premises of the company office and whose wages qualify as creditable, may not exceed 130 percent of the "weighted average" yearly federal employee health insurance, which is calculated from the individual health plans weighted by the number of individual contracts in each plan. The yearly amount is calculated by the Office of Personnel Management and includes the "weighted average" of all individual health insurance costs for federal employees throughout the United States. The maximum life insurance allowed within this combined amount is $50,000 for each employee. Only during the time employees are earning creditable wages are they entitled to health and life insurance duty refund benefits under the program.

(A) The combined creditable amount of family health and life insurance per year, for each full-time permanent resident employee who works on the premises of the company office and whose wages qualify as creditable, may not exceed 150 percent of the "weighted average" yearly federal employee health insurance, which is calculated from the family health plans weighted by the number of family contracts in each plan. The yearly amount is calculated by the Office of Personnel Management and includes the "weighted average" of all family health insurance costs for federal employees throughout the United States. The maximum life insurance allowed within this combined amount is $50,000 for each employee. Only during the time employees are earning creditable wages are they entitled to health and life insurance duty refund benefits under the program.

(B) The creditable pension benefit, for each full-time permanent resident employee who works on the premises of the company office and whose wages qualify as creditable, is up to 3 percent of the employee's wages unless the employee's wages exceed the maximum annual creditable wage allowed under the program (see paragraph (a)(13)(i) of this section). An employee earning more than the maximum creditable wage allowed under the program will be eligible for only 3 percent of the maximum creditable wage. Only during the time employees are earning creditable wages are they entitled to pension duty refund benefits under the program.

(iii) If tariffs on watches and watch movements are reduced, then companies would be required to provide the annual aggregate data by individual HTSUS watch tariff numbers for the following components contained therein: the quantity and value of watch cases, the quantity of movements, the quantity and value of each type of strap, bracelet or band, and the quantity and value of batteries shipped free of duty into the United States. If discrete watch movements are shipped free of duty into the United States, then the annual aggregate quantity by individual HTSUS movement tariff numbers would also be required along with the value of each battery if it is contained within. These data would be used to calculate the annual duty rate before each HTSUS tariff reduction, and the annual duty rate after the HTSUS tariff reduction. The amount of the difference would be creditable toward the duty refund. The tariff information would only be collected and used in the calculation of the annual duty-refund certificate and would not be used in the calculation of the mid-year duty-refund.

(14) Non-creditable wages and associated non-creditable fringe benefits ineligible for the duty refund benefit include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Wages over 65 percent of the contribution and benefit base for Social Security, as defined in the Social Security Act for the year in which wages were earned, paid to permanent residents of the territories employed in a firm's 91/5 watch and watch movement program.

(A) Wages paid for the repair of watches in an amount over 85 percent of the firm's total creditable wages.

(B) Wages paid for the assembly of watches and watch movements which are shipped outside the customs territory of the United States; wages paid for the assembly of watches and watch movements that do not meet the regulatory assembly requirements; or wages paid for the assembly of watches or watch movements that contain HTSUS column 2 components.

(C) Wages paid for the complete assembly of watches, excluding the movement, when the desired movement can be purchased unassembled, if the producer does not have adequate documentation, demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Secretaries, that the movement could not be purchased unassembled whether or not it is entering the United States.

(D) Wages paid to persons not engaged in the day-to-day assembly operations on the premises of the company office; wages paid to any outside consultants; wages paid to outside the office personnel, including but not limited to, lawyers, gardeners, construction workers, and accountants; wages paid to employees not working on the premises of the company office; and wages paid to employees who do not qualify as permanent residents in accordance with the Departments' regulations.

(E) Wages paid to persons engaged in both creditable and non-creditable assembly and repair operations if the producer does not maintain production, shipping and payroll records adequate for the Departments' verification of the creditable portion.

(ii) Any costs, for the year in which the wages were paid, of the combined creditable amount of individual health and life insurance for employees over 130 percent of the "weighted average" yearly individual health insurance costs for all federal employees. The cost of any life insurance over the $50,000 limit for each employee. Any health and life insurance costs during the time an employee is not earning creditable wages.

(A) Any costs, for the year in which the wages were paid, of the combined creditable amount of family health and life insurance for employees over 150 percent of the "weighted average" yearly family health insurance costs for all federal employee. The cost of any life insurance over the $50,000 limit for each employee. Any health and life insurance costs during the time an employee is not earning creditable wages.

(B) Any pension benefits that were not based on associated creditable wages. The cost of any pension benefit per employee over 3 percent of the employee's creditable wages unless the employee's wages exceed the maximum annual creditable annual maximum creditable wage allowed under the program (see paragraph (a)(13)(i) of this section). Employees earning over the maximum creditable wage allowed under the program would have a creditable annual pension benefit of up to 3 percent of the maximum creditable wage and wages over 3 percent of the maximum creditable wage would not be creditable.
