
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 303 - WATCHES, WATCH MOVEMENTS AND JEWELRY PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - Watches and Watch Movements
####### ยง 303.6 Allocation and reallocation of exemptions among producers.
######## Reallocations.

(f)Duty-exemptions may become available for reallocation as a result of cancellation or reduction for cause, voluntary relinquishment or nonplacement of duty-exemption set aside for new entrants. At the request of a producer, the Secretaries may reallocate such duty-exemptions among the remaining producers who can use additional quantities in a manner judged best for the economy of the territories. The Secretaries shall consider such factors as the wage and income tax contributions of the respective producers during the preceding year and the nature of the producer's present assembly operations. In addition, the Secretaries may consider other factors which, in their judgment, are relevant to determining that applications from new firms, in lieu of reallocations, should be considered for part or all of unused portions of the total duty exemptions. Such factors may include:

(1) The ability of the established industry to use the duty-exemption;

(2) Whether the duty-exemption is sufficient to support new entrant operations;

(3) The impact upon the established industry if new entrants are selected, particularly with respect to the effect on local employment, tax contributions to the territorial government, and the ability of the established industry to maintain satisfactory production levels; and

(4) Whether additional new entrants offer the best prospect for adding economic benefits to the territory.

(g) Section 303.14 of this part contains the criteria and formulae used by the Secretaries in calculating each watch producer's annual watch duty-exemption allocation, and other special rules or provisions the Secretaries may periodically adopt to carry out their responsibilities in a timely manner while taking into account changing circumstances. References to duty-exemptions, unless otherwise indicated, are to the amount available for reallocation in the current calendar year. Specifications of or references to data or bases used in the calculation of current year allocations (e.g., economic contributions and shipments) are, unless indicated otherwise, those which were generated in the previous year.

(h) The Secretaries may propose changes to ยง 303.14 at any time they consider it necessary to fulfill their responsibilities. Normally, such changes will be proposed towards the end of each calendar year. Interested parties shall be given an opportunity to submit written comments on proposed changes.
