
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 303 - WATCHES, WATCH MOVEMENTS AND JEWELRY PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - Watches and Watch Movements
####### ยง 303.7 Issuance of licenses and shipment permits.
######## Issuance of Licenses (ITA-333).

(a)(1) Concurrently with annual allocations under ยง 303.5 the Director shall issue a non-transferable license (Form ITA-333) to each producer. The Director shall also issue a replacement license if a producer's allocation is reduced pursuant to ยง 303.6.

(2) Annual duty-exemption licenses shall be for only that portion of a producer's annual duty-exemption not previously licensed.

(3) If a producer's duty-exemption has been reduced, the Director shall not issue a replacement license for the reduced amount until the producer's previous license has been received for cancellation by the Director.

(4) A producer's license shall be used in their entirety, except when they expire or are cancelled, in order of their date of issuance, i.e., an interim license must be completely used before shipment permits can be issued against an interim supplemental license.

(5) Outstanding licenses issued by the Director automatically expire at midnight, December 31, of each calendar year. No unused allocation of duty-exemption may be carried over into the subsequent calendar year.

(6) The Director shall ensure that all licenses issued are conspicuously marked to show the type of license issued, the identity of the producer, and the year for which the license is valid. All licenses shall bear the signature of the Director.

(7) Each producer is responsible for the security of its licenses. The loss of a license shall be reported immediately to the Director. Defacing, tampering with, and unauthorized use of a license are forbidden.
