
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 303 - WATCHES, WATCH MOVEMENTS AND JEWELRY PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - Watches and Watch Movements
####### ยง 303.7 Issuance of licenses and shipment permits.
######## Shipment Permit Requirements (ITA-340).

(b)(1) Producers may obtain shipment permits from the territorial government officials designated by the Governor. Permits may also be produced in any computerized or other format or medium approved by the Departments. The permit is for use against a producer's valid duty-exemption license and a permit must be completed for every duty-free shipment.

(2) Each permit must specify the license and permit number, the number of watches and watch movements included in the shipment, the unused balance remaining on the producer's license, pertinent shipping information and must have the certification statement signed by an official of the licensee's company. A copy of the completed permit must be sent electronically or taken to the designated territorial government officials, no later than the day of shipment, for confirmation that the producer's duty-exemption license has not been exceeded and that the permit is properly completed.

(3) The permit (form ITA-340) shall be filed with Customs along with the other required entry documents to receive duty-free treatment unless the importer or its representative clears the documentation through Customs' automated broker interface. Entries made electronically do not require the submission of a permit to Customs, but the shipment data must be maintained as part of a producer's recordkeeping responsibilities for the period prescribed by Customs' recordkeeping regulations. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection Import Specialists may request the documentation they deem appropriate to substantiate claims for duty-free treatment, allowing a reasonable amount of time for the importer to produce the permit.
