
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 303 - WATCHES, WATCH MOVEMENTS AND JEWELRY PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - Watches and Watch Movements
####### ยง 303.12 Issuance and use of production incentive certificates.
######## The use and transfer of certificate entitlements.

(c)(1) Insular producers issued a certificate may request a refund by executing Form ITA-361P (see ยง 303.2(b)(5) and the instructions on the form). After authentication by the Department of Commerce, Form ITA-361P may be used to obtain duty refunds on articles that entered the customs territory of the United States duty paid except for any article containing a material which is the product of a country to which column 2 rates of duty apply. Articles for which duty refunds are claimed must have entered the customs territory of the United States during the two-year period prior to the issue date of the certificate or during the one-year period the certificate remains valid. Copies of the appropriate Customs entries must be provided with the refund request in order to establish a basis for issuing the claimed amounts. Certification regarding drawback claims and liquidated refunds relating to the presented entries is required from the claimant on the form.

(2) Regulations issued by the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, govern the refund of duties under Public Law 97-446, as amended by Public Law 103-465 and Public Law 108-429. If the Departments receive information from the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection that a producer has made unauthorized use of any official form, they shall cancel the affected certificate.

(3) The insular producer may transfer a portion of all of its certificate entitlement to another party by entering in block C of Form ITA-361P the name and address of the party.

(4) After a Form ITA-361P transferring a certificate entitlement to a party other than the certificate holder has been authenticated by the Department of Commerce, the form may be exchanged for any consideration satisfactory to the two parties. In all cases, authenticated forms shall be transmitted to the certificate holder or its authorized custodian for disposition (see paragraph (b) above).

(5) All disputes concerning the use of an authenticated Form ITA-361P shall be referred to the Departments for resolution. Any party named on an authenticated Form ITA-361P shall be considered an "interested party" within the meaning of ยง 303.13 of this part.
