
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 303 - WATCHES, WATCH MOVEMENTS AND JEWELRY PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Jewelry
####### ยง 303.16 Definitions and forms.
######## New firm

(5)means a jewelry company which has requested in writing to the Secretaries permission to participate in the program. In addition to any other information required by the Secretaries, new firm requests shall include a representation that the company agrees to abide by the laws and regulations of the program, an outline of the company's anticipated economic contribution to the territory (including the number of employees) and a statement as to whether the company is affiliated by ownership or control with any other watch or jewelry company in the insular possessions. The Secretaries will then review the request and make a decision based on the information provided and the economic contribution to the territory. A new jewelry firm may not be affiliated through ownership or control with any other jewelry duty-refund recipient. In assessing whether persons or parties are affiliated, the Secretaries will consider the following factors, among others: stock ownership; corporate or family groupings; franchise or joint venture agreements; debt financing; and close supplier relationships. The Secretaries may not find that control exists on the basis of these factors unless the relationship has the potential to affect decisions concerning production, pricing, or cost. Also, no jewelry duty-refund recipient may own or control more than one watch duty-refund recipient.
