
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 303 - WATCHES, WATCH MOVEMENTS AND JEWELRY PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Jewelry
####### ยง 303.16 Definitions and forms.
######## Territories, territorial and insular possessions

(8)refers to the insular possessions of the United States (i.e., the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands).

(9) Creditable wages and associated creditable fringe benefits and creditable duty differentials eligible for the duty refund benefit include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Wages up to an amount equal to 65 percent of the contribution and benefit base for Social Security, as defined in the Social Security Act for the year in which wages were earned, paid to permanent residents of the insular possessions employed in a firm's manufacture of HTSUS heading 7113 articles of jewelry which are a product of the insular possessions and have met the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection's criteria for duty-free entry into the United States, plus any wages paid for the repair of non-insular HTSUS heading 7113 jewelry up to an amount equal to 50 percent of the firm's total creditable wages.

(A) Wages paid to persons engaged in the day-to-day assembly operations at the company office, wages paid to administrative employees working on the premises of the company office, wages paid to security operations employees and wages paid to servicing and maintenance employees if these services are integral to the assembly and manufacturing operations and the employees are working on the premises of the company office.

(B) Wages paid to permanent residents who are employees of a new company involved in the jewelry assembly and jewelry manufacturing of HTSUS heading 7113 jewelry for up to 18 months after such jewelry company commences jewelry manufacturing or jewelry assembly operations in the insular possessions.

(C) Wages paid when a maximum of two program producers work on a single piece of HTSUS heading 7113 jewelry which entered the United States free of duty under the program. Wages paid by the two producers will be credited proportionally provided both producers demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretaries that they worked on the same piece of jewelry, the jewelry received duty-free treatment into the customs territory of the United States, and the producers maintained production and payroll records sufficient for the Departments' verification of the creditable wage portion (see ยง 303.17(b)).

(D) Wages paid to persons engaged in both creditable and non-creditable assembly and repair operations may be credited proportionally provided the firm maintains production, shipping and payroll records adequate for the Departments' verification of the creditable portion.

(E) Wages paid to new permanent residents who have met the requirements of permanent residency in accordance with the Departments' regulations along with meeting all other creditable wage requirements of the regulations, which must be documented and verified to the satisfaction of the Secretaries.

(ii) The combined creditable amount of individual health and life insurance per year, for each full-time permanent resident employee who works on the premises of the company office and whose wages qualify as creditable, may not exceed 130 percent of the "weighted average" yearly federal employee health insurance, which is calculated from the individual health plans weighted by the number of individual contracts in each plan. The yearly amount is calculated by the Office of Personnel Management and includes the "weighted average" of all individual health insurance costs for federal employees throughout the United States. The maximum life insurance allowed within this combined amount is $50,000 for each employee. Only during the time employees are earning creditable wages are they entitled to health and life insurance duty refund benefits under the program.

(A) The combined creditable amount of family health and life insurance per year, for each full-time permanent resident employee who works on the premises of the company office and whose wages qualify as creditable, may not exceed 150 percent of the "weighted average" yearly federal employee health insurance, which is calculated from the family health plans weighted by the number of family contracts in each plan. The yearly amount is calculated by the Office of Personnel Management and includes the "weighted average" of all family health insurance costs for federal employees throughout the United States. The maximum life insurance allowed within this combined amount is $50,000 dollars for each employee. Only during the time employees are earning creditable wages are they entitled to health and life insurance duty refund benefits under the program.

(B) The creditable pension benefit, for each full-time permanent resident employee who works on the premises of the company office and whose wages qualify as creditable, is up to 3 percent of the employee's wages unless the employee's wages exceed the maximum annual creditable wage allowed under the program (see paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section). An employee earning more than the maximum creditable wage allowed under the program will be eligible for only 3 percent of the maximum creditable wage. Only during the time employees are earning creditable wages are they entitled to pension duty refund benefits under the program.

(10) Non-creditable wages and associated non-creditable fringe benefits ineligible for the duty refund benefit include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Wages over 65 percent of the contribution and benefit base for Social Security, as defined in the Social Security Act for the year in which wages were earned, paid to permanent residents of the territories employed in a firm's 91/5 heading 7113, HTSUS, jewelry program.

(A) Wages paid for the repair of jewelry in an amount over 50 percent of the firm's total creditable wages.

(B) Wages paid to employees who are involved in assembling HTSUS heading 7113 jewelry beyond 18 months after such jewelry company commences jewelry manufacturing or jewelry assembly operations in the insular possessions if the jewelry does not meet the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection's substantial transformation requirements and other criteria for duty-free enter into the United States.

(C) Wages paid for the assembly and manufacturing of jewelry which is shipped to places outside the customs territory of the United States; wages paid for the assembly and manufacturing of jewelry that does not meet the regulatory assembly requirements; or wages paid for the assembly and manufacture of jewelry that contain HTSUS column 2 components.

(D) Wages paid to those persons not engaged in the day-to-day assembly operations on the premises of the company office, wages paid to any outside consultants, wages paid to outside the office personnel, including but not limited to, lawyers, gardeners, construction workers and accountants; wages paid to employees not working on the premises of the company office; wages paid to employees working with a non-program producer to create a single piece of HTSUS heading 7113 jewelry whether or not it entered the United States free of duty; and wages paid to employees who do not qualify as permanent residents in accordance with the Departments' regulations.

(E) Wages paid to persons engaged in both creditable and non-creditable assembly and repair operations if the producer does not maintain production, shipping and payroll records adequate for the Departments' verification of the creditable portion.

(ii) Any costs, for the year in which the wages were paid, of the combined creditable amount of individual health and life insurance for employees over 130 percent of the "weighted average" yearly individual health insurance costs for all federal employees. The cost of any life insurance over the $50,000 limit for each employee. Any health and life insurance costs during the time an employee is not earning creditable wages.

(A) Any costs, for the year in which the wages were paid, of the combined creditable amount of family health and life insurance for employees over 150 percent of the "weighted average" yearly family health insurance costs for all federal employee. The cost of any life insurance over the $50,000 limit for each employee. Any health and life insurance costs during the time an employee is not earning creditable wages.

(B) Any pension benefits that were not based on associated creditable wages. The cost of any pension benefit per employee over 3 percent of the employee's creditable wages unless the employee's wages exceed the maximum annual creditable annual maximum creditable wage allowed under the program (see paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section). Employees earning over the maximum creditable wage allowed under the program would have a creditable annual pension benefit of up to 3 percent of the maximum creditable wage and wages over 3 percent of the maximum creditable wage would not be creditable.
