
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 303 - WATCHES, WATCH MOVEMENTS AND JEWELRY PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Jewelry
####### ยง 303.19 Issuance and use of production incentive certificates.
######## Issuance of certificates.

(a)(1) The total annual amount of the Certificate of Entitlement, Form ITA-360, may be divided and issued on a biannual basis. The first portion of the total annual certificate amount will be based on reported duty-free shipments and creditable wages, determined from the wages as reported on the employer's first two quarterly federal tax returns (941-SS), paid during the first six month of the calendar year, using the formula in ยง 303.20(b). The Departments require the receipt of the data by July 31 for each producer who wishes to receive an interim duty refund certificate. The interim duty refund certificate will be issued on or before August 31 of the same year in which the wages were earned unless the Departments have unresolved questions. The process of determining the total annual amount of the duty refund will be based on verified creditable wages, duty-free shipments into the customs territory of the United States, creditable health insurance, life insurance and pension benefits and the duty differential, if watch tariffs have been reduced during the calendar year. The completed annual application (Form ITA-334P) shall be received by the Departments on or before January 31 and the annual verification of data and calculation of each producer's total annual duty refund, based on the verified data, will continue to take place in February. Once the calculations for each producer's duty refund has been completed, the portion of the duty refund that has already been issued to each producer will be deducted from the total amount of each producer's annual duty refund amount. The duty refund certificate will continue to be issued by March 1 unless the Departments have unresolved questions.

(2) Certificates shall not be issued to more than one jewelry company in the territories owned or controlled by the same corporate entity.
