
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 310 - OFFICIAL U.S. GOVERNMENT RECOGNITION OF AND PARTICIPATION IN INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITIONS HELD IN THE UNITED STATES
###### ยง 310.1 Background and purpose.
####### et seq.

The regulations in this part are issued under the authority of Pub. L. 91-269 (84 Stat. 271, 22 U.S.C. 2801) which establishes an orderly procedure for Federal Government recognition of, and participation in, international expositions to be held in the United States. The Act provides, inter alia, that Federal recognition of an exposition is to be granted upon a finding by the President that such recognition will be in the national interest. In making this finding, the President is directed to consider, among other factors, a report from the Secretary of Commerce as to the purposes and reasons for an exposition and the extent of financial and other support to be provided by the State and local officials and business and community leaders where the exposition is to be held, and a report by the Secretary of State to determine whether the exposition is qualified for registration under Bureau of International Expositions (BIE) rules. The BIE is an international organization established by the Paris Convention of 1928 (T.I.A.S. 6548 as amended by T.I.A.S. 6549) to regulate the conduct and scheduling of international expositions in which foreign nations are officially invited to participate. The BIE divides international expositions into different categories and types and requires each member nation to observe specified minimum time intervals in scheduling each of these categories and types of expositions.Under BIE rules, member nations may not ordinarily participate in an international exposition unless such exposition has been approved by the BIE. The United States became a member of the BIE on April 30, 1968, upon ratification of the Paris Convention by the U.S. Senate (114 Cong. Rec. 11012).
