
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 325 - EXPORT TRADE CERTIFICATES OF REVIEW
###### ยง 325.3 Applying for a certificate of review.
####### Supplemental information.

(g)After an application has been deemed submitted, if the Secretary or the Attorney General finds that additional information is necessary to make a determination on the application, the Secretary will ask the applicant in writing to supply the supplemental information. The running of the time period for a determination on the application will be suspended from the date on which the request is sent until the supplemental information is received and is considered complete. The Secretary shall promptly decide whether the supplemental information is complete, and shall notify the applicant of his decision. If the information is being sought by the Attorney General, the supplemental information may be deemed complete only if the Attorney General concurs. If the applicant does not agree to provide the additional information, or supplies information which the Secretary or the Attorney General considers incomplete, the Secretary and the Attorney General will decide whether the information in their possession is sufficient to make a determination on the application. If either the Secretary or the Attorney General considers the information in their possession insufficient, the Secretary may make an additional request or shall deny the application. If they consider the information in their possession sufficient to make a determination on the application, the Secretary shall notify the applicant that the time period for a determination has resumed running.
