
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 325 - EXPORT TRADE CERTIFICATES OF REVIEW
###### ยง 325.5 Issuing the certificate.
####### Concurrence of the Attorney General.

(c)(1) Not later than seven days after an application is deemed submitted, the Secretary shall deliver to the Attorney General a copy of the application, any information submitted in connection with the application, and any other relevant information in his possession. The Secretary and the Attorney General shall make available to each other copies of other relevant information that was obtained in connection with the application, unless otherwise prohibited by law.

(2) Not later than thirty days before the day a determination on the application is due, the Secretary shall deliver a proposed certificate to the Attorney General for discussion and comment. If the Attorney General does not agree that the proposed certificate may be issued, he shall, not later than ten days before the day a determination on the application is due, so advise the Secretary and state the reasons for the disagreement. The Secretary with the concurrence of the Attorney General, may modify or revise the proposed certificate to resolve the objections and problems raised by the Attorney General, or deny the application.

(3) If the Attorney General receives the proposed certification by the date specified in the preceding paragraph and does not respond within the time period specified in that paragraph, he shall be deemed to concur in the proposed certificate.
