
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 325 - EXPORT TRADE CERTIFICATES OF REVIEW
###### ยง 325.6 Publishing notices in the Federal Register.

(a) Within ten days after an application is deemed submitted, the Secretary shall deliver to thea notice summarizing the application. The notice shall identify the applicant and each member and shall include a summary of the export conduct for which certification is sought. If the Secretary does not intend to publish the summary proposed by the applicant, he shall notify the applicant. Within twenty days after the date the notice is published in theinterested parties may submit written comments to the Secretary on the application. The Secretary shall provide a copy of such comments to the Attorney General.

(b) If a certificate is issued, the Secretary shall publish a summary of the certification in theIf an application is denied, the Secretary shall publish a notice of denial. Certificates will be available for inspection and copying in the International Trade Administration Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility.

(c) If the Secretary initiates proceedings to revoke or modify a certificate, he shall publish a notice of his final determination in the

(d) If the applicant requests reconsideration of a determination to deny an application, in whole or in part, the Secretary shall publish notice of his final determination in the
