
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 325 - EXPORT TRADE CERTIFICATES OF REVIEW
###### ยง 325.9 Reconsidering an application that has been denied.

(a) If the Secretary determines to deny an application in whole or in part, he shall notify the applicant in writing of his decision and the reasons for his determination.

(b) Within thirty days after receiving a notice of denial, the applicant may request the Secretary to reconsider his determination.

(1) The request for reconsideration shall include a written statement setting forth the reasons why the applicant believes the decision should be reconsidered, and any additional information that the applicant considers relevant.

(2) Upon the request of the applicant, the Secretary and the Attorney General will meet informally with the applicant and/or his representative to discuss the applicant's reasons why the determination on the application should be changed.

(c) The Secretary shall consult with the Attorney General with regard to reconsidering an application. The Secretary may modify his original determination only if the Attorney General concurs.

(d) The Secretary shall notify the applicant in writing of his final determination after reconsideration and of his reasons for the determination within thirty days after the request for reconsideration has been received.
