
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter III - International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - Miscellaneous Regulations
##### PART 325 - EXPORT TRADE CERTIFICATES OF REVIEW
###### ยง 325.10 Modifying or revoking a certificate.
####### Final determination.

(4)The Secretary and the Attorney General shall review the notification letter and the certificate holder's answer to it, the proposed factual findings made under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and any other relevant documents or information in their possession. If, after review, the Secretary or the Attorney General determines that the export conduct of a person or entity protected by the certificate no longer complies with the standards set forth in ยง 325.4(b), the Secretary shall revoke or modify the certificate as appropriate. If the Secretary or the Attorney General determines that the certificate holder has failed to comply with the request for information under paragraph (b) of this section, or has failed to file a complete annual report, and that the failure to comply or file should result in revocation of modification, the Secretary shall revoke or modify the certificate as appropriate. The determination will be final and will be issued to the certificate holder in writing. The notice to the certificate holder shall include a statement of the circumstances underlying and the reasons in support of the determination. If the Secretary determines to revoke or modify the certificate, the decision shall specify the effective date of the revocation or modification; this date must be at least thirty days but not more than ninety days after the Secretary notifies the certificate holder of his determination. The Secretary shall publish notice in theof a revocation or modification or a decision not to revoke or modify.
