
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 0 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
#### Subpart G - Administration
##### ยง 0.735-39 Authorizations.

All requests for authorizations required under this part shall be addressed to the head of the operating unit concerned. In the Office of the Secretary such requests shall be addressed to the Secretary or such person as he may designate. When granted, authorizations will be in writing, and a copy of each authorization will be filed in the employees' official personnel file.

(a) In case of doubt, or upon the request of the employee concerned, cases or questions will be forwarded to the counselor or a deputy counselor. (See ยง 0.735-38.)

(b) Where an activity requested to be authorized can be conducted as official business, it shall not be authorized as a private activity, but shall be conducted as official business.

(c) Where authorizations involve speaking, writing, or teaching, use of the official title of the employee for identification purposes may be authorized, provided the employee makes it clear that his statements and actions are not of an official nature.

(d) If an authorization has been granted for a specific activity or interest, and the activity or interest is subsequently deemed to constitute a violation of the limitations or requirements prescribed in or pursuant to this part, the employee concerned shall be notified in writing of the cancellation of the authorization and shall modify or stop the activity or interest involved, as requested.
