
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IV - Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce
#### PART 400 - REGULATIONS OF THE FOREIGN-TRADE ZONES BOARD
##### Subpart C - Applications To Establish and Modify Authority
###### § 400.29 Application fees.
####### Uniform system of user fee charges.

(b)The following fee schedule establishes fees for certain types of applications and requests for authority on the basis of their estimated average processing time. Applications combining requests for more than one type of approval are subject to the fee for each category.

(1) Additional general-purpose zones (§ 400.21; § 400.11(a)(2))-$3,200

(2) Special-purpose subzones (§ 400.25):

(i) Not involving production activity or involving production activity with fewer than three products-$4,000

(ii) Production activity with three or more products-$6,500

(3) Expansions (§ 400.24(b))-$1,600

(c) Applications submitted to the Board shall include a currently dated check drawn on a national or state bank or trust company of the United States or Puerto Rico in the amount called for in paragraph (b) of this section. Uncertified checks must be acceptable for deposit by the Board in a Federal Reserve bank or branch.

(d) Applicants shall make their checks payable to the U.S. Department of Commerce ITA. The checks will be deposited by ITA into the Treasury receipts account. If applications are found deficient under § 400.31(b), or are withdrawn by applicants prior to formal docketing, refunds will be made.
