
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IV - Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce
#### PART 400 - REGULATIONS OF THE FOREIGN-TRADE ZONES BOARD
##### Subpart D - Procedures for Application Evaluation and Reviews
###### § 400.31 General application provisions and pre-docketing review.
####### In general.

(a)Sections 400.31-400.36 and 400.38 outline the procedures to be followed in docketing and processing applications submitted under §§ 400.21, 400.23, 400.24(b), and 400.25. In addition, these sections set forth the time schedules which will ordinarily apply in processing applications. The schedules will guide applicants with respect to the time frames for each of the procedural steps involved in the Board's review. Under these schedules, applications for subzone designation will generally be processed within 5 months (3 months for applications subject to § 400.36(f)) and applications to establish or expand zones will generally be processed within 10 months. The general timeframe to process applications for production authority is 12 months, but additional time is most likely to be required for applications requesting production authority when a complex or controversial issue is involved or when the applicant or other party has obtained a time extension for a particular procedural step. The timeframes specified apply from the time of docketing. Each applicant is responsible for submitting an application that meets the docketing requirements in a timeframe consistent with the applicant's need for action on its request.
