
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IV - Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce
#### PART 400 - REGULATIONS OF THE FOREIGN-TRADE ZONES BOARD
##### Subpart D - Procedures for Application Evaluation and Reviews
###### § 400.32 Procedures for docketing applications and commencement of case review.

(a) Once the pre-docketing copy of the application is determined to be sufficient, the Executive Secretary shall notify the applicant within 15 days so that the applicant may then submit the original and requisite number of copies (which shall be dated upon receipt at the headquarters of the Board) for docketing by the Board. For applications subject to § 400.29, the original shall be accompanied with a check in accordance with that section.

(b) After the procedures described in paragraph (a) of this section are completed, the Executive Secretary shall within 15 days of receipt of the original and required number of copies of the application:

(1) Formally docket the application, thereby initiating the proceeding or review;

(2) Assign a case-docket number; and

(3) Notify the applicant of the formal docketing action.

(c) After initiating a proceeding based on an application under §§ 400.21 and 400.23-400.25, the Executive Secretary shall:

(1) Designate an examiner to conduct a review and prepare a report or memorandum with recommendations for the Board;

(2) Publish in thea notice of the formal docketing of the application and initiation of the review. The notice shall include the name of the applicant, a description of the proposal, and an invitation for public comment. If the application requests authority for production activity and indicates that a component to be used in the activity is subject to a trade-related measure or proceeding (e.g., AD/CVD order or proceeding, suspension of liquidation under AD/CVD procedures), the notice shall include that information. For applications to establish or expand a zone or for production authority, the comment period shall normally close 60 days after the date the notice appears. For applications for subzone designation, the comment period shall normally close 40 days after the date the notice appears. However, if a hearing is held (see § 400.52), the comment period shall not close prior to 15 days after the date of the hearing. The closing date for general comments shall ordinarily be followed by an additional 15-day period for rebuttal comments. Requests for extensions of a comment period will be considered, subject to the standards of § 400.28(c). Submissions must meet the requirements of § 400.28(b). With the exception of submissions by the applicant, any new evidence or new factual information and any written arguments submitted after the deadlines for comments shall not be considered by the examiner or the Board. Submission by the applicant of new evidence or new factual information may result in the (re)opening of a comment period. A comment period may otherwise be opened or reopened for cause;

(3) Transmit or otherwise make available copies of the docketing notice and the application to CBP;

(4) Arrange for hearings, as appropriate;

(5) Transmit the report and recommendations of the examiner and any comments by CBP to the Board for appropriate action; and

(6) Notify the applicant in writing (via electronic means, where appropriate) and publish notice in theof the Board's determination.
