
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IV - Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce
#### PART 400 - REGULATIONS OF THE FOREIGN-TRADE ZONES BOARD
##### Subpart D - Procedures for Application Evaluation and Reviews
###### § 400.35 Examiner's review - application for subzone designation.

The examiner shall develop a memorandum with a recommendation on whether to approve the application, taking into account the criteria enumerated in § 400.26. To develop that memorandum, the examiner shall review the case records including public comments, and may request information and evidence from parties of record, as necessary. The examiner's memorandum shall generally be submitted to the Board within 30 days of the close of the period for public comment. However, additional time may be taken as necessary for analysis of any public comment in opposition to the application or if other complicating factors arise.

(a) If the examiner's recommendation is unfavorable to the applicant, it shall be considered preliminary and the applicant shall be notified in writing (via electronic means, where appropriate) of the preliminary recommendation and the factors considered in its development. The applicant shall be given 30 days from the date of notification, subject to extensions upon request by the applicant, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, in which to respond to the recommendation and submit additional evidence pertinent to the factors considered in the development of the preliminary recommendations. Public comment may be invited on preliminary recommendations when warranted.

(b) If the response contains new evidence on which there has not been an opportunity for public comment, the Executive Secretary shall publish notice in theafter completion of the review of the response. The new material shall be made available for public inspection and thenotice shall invite further public comment for a period of not less than 30 days, with an additional 15-day period for rebuttal comments.

(c) If the bases for an examiner's recommendation(s) change as a result of new evidence, the applicable procedures of §§ 400.35(a) and (b) shall be followed.

(d) The CBP adviser shall be requested, when necessary, to provide further comments, which shall be submitted within 45 days after the request.
