
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IV - Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce
#### PART 400 - REGULATIONS OF THE FOREIGN-TRADE ZONES BOARD
##### Subpart D - Procedures for Application Evaluation and Reviews
###### ยง 400.37 Procedure for notification of proposed production activity.
####### Initial processing of notification.

(b)Upon receipt of a complete notification conforming to the requirements of the notification format established by the Executive Secretary pursuant to ยง 400.22, the Executive Secretary shall commence processing the notification. Unless the Executive Secretary determines, based on the content of the notification, to recommend further review to the Board without inviting public comment on the notification, the Executive Secretary shall transmit to thea notice inviting public comment on the notification (with such comment subject to the standards of ยง 400.28(b)). The notice shall be transmitted to thewithin 15 days of the commencement of the processing of the notification, and the comment period shall normally close 40 days after the date the notice appears. If the notification indicates that a material or component to be used in the activity is subject to an AD/CVD order or proceeding, or suspension of liquidation under AD/CVD procedures, the notice shall include that information. Evidence, factual information and written arguments submitted in response to the notice must be submitted by the deadline for comments. Any comments by CBP pertaining to the notification shall be submitted to the Executive Secretary by the end of the comment period. Within 80 days of receipt of the notification, the Executive Secretary shall submit to the Board a recommendation on whether further review of all or part of the activity subject to the notification is warranted. The Executive Secretary's recommendation shall consider comments submitted during the comment period, any guidance from specialists within government, and other relevant factors based on the Board staff's assessment of the notification, in the context of the factors set forth in ยง 400.27.
