
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IV - Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce
#### PART 400 - REGULATIONS OF THE FOREIGN-TRADE ZONES BOARD
##### Subpart E - Operation of Zones and Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 400.43 Uniform treatment.
####### Waivers.

(f)The grantee or other person subject to paragraph (d) of this section may submit an application requesting that the Board issue a waiver exempting from the prohibition of that paragraph a person's undertaking a specific key function(s) listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Using the format developed by the Executive Secretary, an application for a waiver shall explain in detail how the person falls within a key category(ies) set out in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and the specific key function(s) listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that would be undertaken by the person. After receipt of an application requesting a waiver, the Executive Secretary may solicit additional information or clarification, as necessary, including from the person submitting the application and from the grantee. Based on the information presented in the application, the Executive Secretary shall make a recommendation to the Board. A waiver shall be authorized only by an affirmative vote by the Board. If the Board votes not to authorize a waiver or to discontinue a waiver, the applicant shall be notified in writing and allowed 30 days to present evidence in response. In deciding whether to grant a waiver, the Board shall determine whether there is an unacceptable risk that the waiver would result in non-uniform treatment being afforded by the person undertaking a key function(s) listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. In its assessment, the Board shall consider the specific circumstances presented, including the nature and extent of the person's involvement in undertaking a key function(s) listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. In general, the more significant the requester's involvement or interest in the undertaking of a key function(s) listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section or activity(ies) identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the greater the risk will be that non-uniform treatment will be afforded and, thus, the less likely it will be that a waiver will be granted. The Board may attach to individual waivers such conditions or limitations (including, for example, the length of time a waiver is to be effective) as it deems necessary.
