
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IV - Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce
#### PART 400 - REGULATIONS OF THE FOREIGN-TRADE ZONES BOARD
##### Subpart F - Records, Reports, Notice, Hearings and Information
###### ยง 400.51 Records and reports.
####### Annual reports.

(c)(1) Each zone grantee shall submit a complete and accurate annual report to the Board within 90 days after the end of the reporting period. Each zone operator shall submit a complete and accurate annual report to the zone grantee in a timeframe that will enable the grantee's timely submission of a complete and accurate annual report to the Board. A zone grantee may request an extension of the deadline for its report, as warranted. The Executive Secretary may authorize such extensions, with decisions on such authorizations taking into account both the circumstances presented and the importance of the Board submitting its annual report to Congress in a timely manner. Annual reports must be submitted in accordance with any instructions, guidelines, forms and related documents specifying place, manner and format(s) prescribed by the Executive Secretary. In the event that a grantee has not received all necessary annual report information from an operator in a timely manner, the grantee may submit its annual report on time and note the absence of the missing information.

(2) The Board shall submit an annual report to Congress.
