
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IV - Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce
#### PART 400 - REGULATIONS OF THE FOREIGN-TRADE ZONES BOARD
##### Subpart G - Penalties and Appeals to the Board
###### § 400.62 Fines, penalties and instructions to suspend activated status.
####### In general.

(a)Fines are authorized solely for specific violations of the FTZ Act or the Board's regulations as detailed in §§ 400.62(b) and (c). Each specific violation is subject to a fine of not more than 1,000 dollars (as adjusted for inflation pursuant to § 400.62(j)), with each day during which a violation continues constituting a separate offense subject to imposition of such a fine (FTZ Act, section 19; 19 U.S.C. 81s). This section also establishes the party subject to the fine which, depending on the type of violation, would be the zone operator, grantee, or a person undertaking one or more zone-related functions on behalf of the grantee, where applicable. In certain circumstances, the Board or the Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance could instruct CBP to suspend the activated status of all or part of a zone or subzone. Violations of the FTZ Act or the Board's regulations (including the sections pertaining to uniform treatment and submission of annual reports), failure to pay fines, or failure to comply with an order prohibiting or restricting activity may also result in the Executive Secretary's suspending the processing of any requests to the Board and staff relating to the zone or subzone in question. In circumstances where non-compliance pertains to only a subset of the operations in a zone, suspensions of activated status and suspensions of the processing of requests shall be targeted to the specific non-compliant operation(s).
