
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart D - Industrial Priorities
####### ยง 700.12 Elements of a rated order.
######## Elements required for all rated orders.

(a)(1) The appropriate priority rating and program identification symbol (e.g., DO-A1, DX-A4, DO-N1).

(2) A required delivery date or dates. The words "immediately" or "as soon as possible" do not constitute a delivery date. When a "requirements contract," "basic ordering agreement," "prime vendor contract," or similar procurement document bearing a priority rating contains no specific delivery date or dates, but provides for the furnishing of items from time-to-time or within a stated period against specific purchase orders, such as "calls," "requisitions," and "delivery orders," the purchase orders supporting such contracts or agreements must specify a required delivery date or dates and are to be considered as rated as of the date of their receipt by the supplier and not as of the date of the original procurement document.

(3) The written signature on a manually placed order, or the digital signature or name on an electronically placed order, of an individual authorized to sign rated orders for the person placing the order. The signature, manual or digital, certifies that the rated order is authorized under this part and that the requirements of this part are being followed.

(4) A statement that reads in substance: "This is a rated order certified for national defense use and you are required to follow all the provisions of the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulations (15 CFR part 700)."
