
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart D - Industrial Priorities
####### ยง 700.13 Acceptance and rejection of rated orders.
######## Customer notification requirements.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a person must accept or reject a rated order in writing (hard copy), or in electronic format, within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of a DO rated order and within ten (10) working days after receipt of a DX rated order. If the order is rejected, the person must give reasons in writing or electronically for the rejection.

(2) If a rated order is placed for the purpose of emergency preparedness requirements and expedited action is necessary or appropriate to meet these requirements and the order includes the statement set forth in ยง 700.12(b), a person must accept or reject the rated order and transmit the acceptance or rejection in writing or in an electronic format within the time specified in the rated order. The minimum times for acceptance or rejection that such orders may specify are six (6) hours after receipt of the order if the order is issued by an authorized person in response to a hazard that has occurred, or twelve (12) hours after receipt if the order is issued by an authorized person to prepare for an imminent hazard.

(3) If a person has accepted a rated order and subsequently finds that shipment or performance will be delayed, the person must notify the customer immediately, give the reasons for the delay, and advise of a new shipment or performance date. If notification is given verbally, written (hard copy) or electronic confirmation must be provided within one working day of the verbal notice.
