
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart D - Industrial Priorities
####### ยง 700.14 Preferential scheduling.
######## Conflicting rated orders.

(c)(1) If a person finds that delivery or performance against any accepted rated orders conflicts with the delivery or performance against other accepted rated orders of equal priority status, the person shall give preference to the conflicting orders in the sequence in which they are to be delivered or performed (not to the receipt dates). If the conflicting rated orders are scheduled to be delivered or performed on the same day, the person shall give preference to those orders which have the earliest receipt dates.

(2) If a person is unable to resolve rated order delivery or performance conflicts under this section, the person should promptly seek special priorities assistance as provided in subpart H of this part. If the person's customer objects to the rescheduling of delivery or performance of a rated order, the customer should promptly seek special priorities assistance as provided in subpart H of this part. For any rated order against which delivery or performance will be delayed, the person must notify the customer as provided in ยง 700.13(d)(3).

(d) If a person is unable to purchase needed production items in time to fill a rated order by its required delivery date, the person must fill the rated order by using inventoried production items. A person who uses inventoried items to fill a rated order may replace those items with the use of a rated order as provided in ยง 700.17(b).
