
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart D - Industrial Priorities
####### ยง 700.17 Use of rated orders.

(a) A person must use rated orders to obtain:

(1) Items which will be physically incorporated into other items to fill rated orders, including that portion of such items normally consumed, or converted into scrap or by-products, in the course of processing;

(2) Containers or other packaging materials required to make delivery of the finished items against rated orders;

(3) Services, other than contracts of employment, needed to fill rated orders; and

(4) MRO needed to produce the finished items to fill rated orders. However, for MRO, the priority rating used must contain the program identification symbol H7 along with the rating symbol contained on the customer's rated order. For example, a person in receipt of a DO-A3 rated order, who needs MRO, would place a DO-H7 rated order with the person's supplier.

(b) A person may use a rated order to replace inventoried items (including finished items) if such items were used to fill rated orders, as follows:

(1) The order must be placed within 90 days of the date of use of the inventory.

(2) A DO rating symbol and the program identification symbol indicated on the customer's rated order must be used on the order. A DX rating symbol may not be used even if the inventory was used to fill a DX rated order.

(3) If the priority ratings on rated orders from one customer or several customers contain different program identification symbols, the rated orders may be combined. In this case, the program identification symbol H1 must be used (i.e., DO-H1).

(c) A person may combine DX and DO rated orders from one customer or several customers if the items covered by each level of priority are identified separately and clearly. If different program identification symbols are indicated on those rated orders of equal priority, the person must use the program identification symbol H1 (i.e., DO-H1 or DX-H1).
