
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart D - Industrial Priorities
####### § 700.17 Use of rated orders.
######## Combining rated and unrated orders.

(d)(1) A person may combine rated and unrated order quantities on one purchase order provided that:

(i) The rated quantities are separately and clearly identified; and

(ii) The elements of a rated order, as required by § 700.12, are included on the order with the statement required in § 700.12(a)(4) modified to read in substance: "This purchase order contains rated order quantities certified for national defense use, and you are required to follow all the provisions of the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulations (15 CFR part 700) as it pertains to the rated quantities."

(2) A supplier must accept or reject the rated portion of the purchase order as provided in § 700.13 and give preferential treatment only to the rated quantities as required by this part. This part may not be used to give preferential treatment to the unrated portion of the order.

(3) Any supplier who believes that rated and unrated orders are being combined in a manner contrary to the intent of this regulation or in a fashion that causes undue or exceptional hardship may submit a request for adjustment or exception under § 700.80.

(e) A person may place a rated order for the minimum commercially procurable quantity even if the quantity needed to fill a rated order is less than that minimum. However, a person must combine rated orders as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if possible, to obtain minimum procurable quantities.

(f) A person is not required to place a priority rating on an order for less than $75,000, or one half of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (as established in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)) (see FAR section 2.101), whichever amount is greater, provided that delivery can be obtained in a timely fashion without the use of the priority rating.
