
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart E - Industrial Priorities for Energy Programs
####### ยง 700.21 Application for priority rating authority.

(a) For projects believed to maximize domestic energy supplies, a person may request priority rating authority for scarce, critical, and essential supplies of materials, equipment, and services (related to the production of materials or equipment, or the installation, repair, or maintenance of equipment) by submitting a request to the Department of Energy. Further information may be obtained from the Department of Energy, Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585.

(b) If the Department of Energy notifies the Department of Commerce that the project maximizes domestic energy supplies and that the materials, equipment, or services are critical and essential, the Department of Commerce will determine whether the items in question are scarce, and, if they are scarce, whether there is a need to use the priorities authority.

(1) Scarcity implies an unusual difficulty in obtaining the materials, equipment, or services in a time frame consistent with the timely completion of the energy project. In determining scarcity, the Department of Commerce may consider factors such as the following:

(i) Value and volume of material or equipment shipments;

(ii) Consumption of material and equipment;

(iii) Volume and market trends of imports and exports;

(iv) Domestic and foreign sources of supply;

(v) Normal levels of inventories;

(vi) Rates of capacity utilization;

(vii) Volume of new orders; and

(viii) Lead times for new orders.

(2) In finding whether there is a need to use the priorities authority, the Department of Commerce may consider alternative supply solutions and other measures.

(c) After the Department of Commerce has conducted its analysis, it will advise the Department of Energy whether the two findings have been satisfied. If the findings are satisfied, the Department of Commerce will authorize the Department of Energy to grant the use of a priority rating to the applicant.

(d) Schedule I to this part includes a list of approved programs to support the maximization of domestic energy supplies. A Department of Energy regulation setting forth the procedures and criteria used by the Department of Energy in making its determination and findings is published in 10 CFR part 216.
