
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart H - Special Priorities Assistance
####### ยง 700.56 Military assistance programs with Canada.
######## DGAPrioritesdedefense.ACQBDefencePriorities@tpsgc-pwgsc.gc.ca.

(d) Any person in the United States ordering defense items in Canada in support of an approved program should inform the Canadian supplier that the items being ordered are to be used to fill a rated order. The Canadian supplier should be informed that if production materials are needed from the United States by the supplier or the supplier's vendor to fill the order, the supplier or vendor should contact the Canadian Public Works and Government Services Canada for authority to place rated orders in the United States: Public Works and Government Services Canada, Acquisitions Branch, Business Management Directorate, Phase 3, Place du Portage, Level 0A1, 11 Laurier Street, Gatineau, Quebec, K1A 0S5, Canada; Telephone: (819) 956-6825; Fax: (819) 956-7827, or electronically at

(e) Any person in Canada producing defense items for the Canadian government may also obtain priority rating authority for items to be purchased in the United States by applying to the Canadian Public Works and Government Services Canada, Acquisitions Branch, Business Management Directorate, in accordance with its procedures.

(f) Persons in Canada needing special priorities assistance in obtaining defense items in the United States may apply to the Canadian Public Works and Government Services Canada, Acquisitions Branch, Business Management Directorate, for such assistance. Public Works and Government Services Canada will forward appropriate requests to the Department of Commerce.

(g) Any person in the United States requiring assistance in obtaining items in Canada must submit a request through the Delegate Agency to the Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security, U.S. Department of Commerce on Form BIS-999. The Department of Commerce will forward appropriate requests to the Canadian Public Works and Government Services Canada.
