
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart J - Compliance
####### ยง 700.74 Violations, penalties, and remedies.

(a) Willful violation of the provisions of Title I or Sections 705 or 707 of the Defense Production Act, the priorities provisions of the Selective Service Act and related statutes or this part is a crime and upon conviction, a person may be punished by fine or imprisonment, or both. The maximum penalty provided by the Defense Production Act is a $10,000 fine, or one year in prison, or both. The maximum penalty provided by the Selective Service Act is a $50,000 fine, or three years in prison, or both.

(b) The government may also seek an injunction from a court of appropriate jurisdiction to prohibit the continuance of any violation of, or to enforce compliance with, the Defense Production Act, this part, or an official action.

(c) In order to secure the effective enforcement of the Defense Production Act, this part, and official actions, the following are prohibited (see section 704 of the Defense Production Act; see also, for example, sections 2 and 371 of Title 18 United States Code):

(1) No person may solicit, influence or permit another person to perform any act prohibited by, or to omit any act required by, the Defense Production Act, this part, or an official action.

(2) No person may conspire or act in concert with any other person to perform any act prohibited by, or to omit any act required by, the Defense Production Act, this part, or an official action.

(3) No person shall deliver any item if the person knows or has reason to believe that the item will be accepted, redelivered, held, or used in violation of the Defense Production Act, this part, or an official action. In such instances, the person must immediately notify the Department of Commerce that, in accordance with this section, delivery has not been made.
