
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart K - Adjustments, Exceptions, and Appeals
####### ยง 700.81 Appeals.

(a) Any person who has had a request for adjustment or exception denied by the Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security under ยง 700.80, may appeal to the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration, Department of Commerce, who shall review and reconsider the denial. Such appeals should be submitted to the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration, Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce, Room 3886, Washington, DC 20230, Ref: DPAS Appeals.

(b) Appeals of denied requests for exceptions from or adjustments to compliance with the provisions of this part or an official action must be received by the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration no later than 45 days after receipt of a written notice of denial from the Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security. After this 45-day period, an appeal may be accepted at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration.

(c) Each appeal must be in writing and contain a complete statement of all the facts and circumstances related to the action appealed from and a full and precise statement of the reasons the decision should be modified or reversed.

(d) In addition to the written materials submitted in support of an appeal, an appellant may request, in writing, an opportunity for an informal hearing. This request may be granted or denied at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration.

(e) When a hearing is granted, the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration may designate an employee of the Department of Commerce to conduct the hearing and to prepare a report. The hearing officer shall determine all procedural questions and impose such time or other limitations deemed reasonable. In the event that the hearing officer decides that a printed transcript is necessary, all expenses shall be borne by the appellant.

(f) When determining an appeal, the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration may consider all information submitted during the appeal as well as any recommendations, reports, or other relevant information and documents available to the Department of Commerce, or consult with any other persons or groups.

(g) The submission of an appeal under this section shall not relieve any person from the obligation of complying with the provisions of this part or official action in question while the appeal is being considered, unless such relief is granted in writing by the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration.

(h) The decision of the Assistant Secretary for Export Administration shall be made within a reasonable time after receipt of the appeal and shall be the final administrative action. It shall be issued to the appellant in writing with a statement of the reasons for the decision.
