
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 700 - DEFENSE PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
###### Subpart L - Miscellaneous Provisions
####### ยง 700.91 Records and reports.

(a) Persons are required to make and preserve for at least three years, accurate and complete records of any transaction covered by this part (OMB control number 0694-0053) or an official action.

(b) Records must be maintained in sufficient detail to permit the determination, upon examination, of whether each transaction complies with the provisions of this part or any official action. However, this part does not specify any particular method or system to be used.

(c) Records required to be maintained by this part must be made available for examination on demand by duly authorized representatives of the Department of Commerce as provided in ยง 700.71.

(d) In addition, persons must develop, maintain, and submit any other records and reports to the Department of Commerce that may be required for the administration of the Defense Production Act, the Selective Service Act and related statutes, and this part.

(e) Section 705(d) of the Defense Production Act provides that information obtained under this section which the President deems confidential, or with reference to which a request for confidential treatment is made by the person furnishing such information, shall not be published or disclosed unless the President determines that the withholding of this information is contrary to the interest of the national defense. Information required to be submitted to the Department of Commerce in connection with the enforcement or administration of the Act, this part, or an official action, is deemed to be confidential under section 705(d) of the Act and shall not be published or disclosed except as required by law.
