
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 705 - EFFECT OF IMPORTED ARTICLES ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY
###### ยง 705.6 Confidential information.
####### Business confidential information.,et seq.

(2)Any information or material submitted electronically, which the applicant or any other party desires to submit in confidence at any stage of the investigation or as part of an application for an investigation, that is business confidential information (trade secrets, commercial or financial information, or any other information considered sensitive or privileged) should be contained within a file beginning its name with the characters "BC". Any page containing business confidential information must be clearly marked "BUSINESS CONFIDENTIAL" on the top of that page, and any pages not containing confidential information should not be so marked. By submitting information or material identified as business confidential information, the applicant or other party represents that the information is exempted from public disclosure, either by the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or by some other specific statutory exemption. Any request for business confidential treatment must be accompanied at the time of filing by a statement justifying non-disclosure and referring to the specific legal authority claimed. The public summary version required under ยง 705.5 must be clearly marked "PUBLIC". When submitted electronically, the file name of the non-confidential version should begin with the character "P". The "P" should be followed by the name of the person or entity submitting the information or material. All filers should name their files using the name of the person or entity submitting the comments.
