
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - National Security Industrial Base Regulations
##### PART 705 - EFFECT OF IMPORTED ARTICLES ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY
###### Supplement No. 2 to Part 705 - General Approved Exclusions (GAEs) for Steel Articles Under the Section 232 Exclusions Process

This supplement identifies steel articles that have been approved for import under a General Approved Exclusion (GAE). The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, the United States Trade Representative, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and other senior Executive Branch officials as appropriate, makes these determinations that certain steel articles may be authorized under a GAE consistent with the objectives of the 232 Exclusions Process as outlined in supplement no. 1 to this part. The GAEs described in this supplement may be used by any importer. GAEs do not include quantity limits. Each GAE identifier will be effective fifteen calendar days after publication of anotice either adding or revising a specific GAE identifier. There is no retroactive relief for GAEs. Relief is only available to steel articles that are entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the effective date of a GAE included in supplement no. 2 to this part. In order to use a GAE, the importer must include the GAE identifier in the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) system that corresponds to the steel articles being imported. These GAEs are indefinite in length, but the Department of Commerce on behalf of the Secretary of Commerce may at any time issue anotice removing, revising or adding to an existing GAE in this supplement as warranted to align with the objectives of the 232 exclusions process as described in supplement no. 1 to this part. The Department of Commerce on behalf of the Secretary of Commerce may periodically publish notices of inquiry in thesoliciting public comments on potential removals, revisions or additions to this supplement.
