
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations
##### PART 710 - GENERAL INFORMATION AND OVERVIEW OF THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION REGULATIONS (CWCR)
###### ยง 710.1 Definitions of terms used in the Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations (CWCR).
####### Production.

Means the formation of a chemical through chemical reaction, including biochemical or biologically mediated reaction (see supplement no. 2 to this part).

(1) Production of Schedule 1 chemicals means formation through chemical synthesis as well as processing to extract and isolate Schedule 1 chemicals.

(2) Production of a Schedule 2 or Schedule 3 chemical means all steps in the production of a chemical in any units within the same plant through chemical reaction, including any associated processes (e.g., purification, separation, extraction, distillation, or refining) in which the chemical is not converted into another chemical. The exact nature of any associated process (e.g., purification, etc.) is not required to be declared.

(3) Production of a Schedule 1, Schedule 2 or Schedule 3 chemical is understood, for declaration purposes, to include intermediates, by-products, or waste products that are produced and consumed within a defined chemical manufacturing sequence, where such intermediates, by-products, or waste products are chemically stable and therefore exist for a sufficient time to make isolation from the manufacturing stream possible, but where, under normal or design operating conditions, isolation does not occur.
