
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations
##### PART 710 - GENERAL INFORMATION AND OVERVIEW OF THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION REGULATIONS (CWCR)
###### ยง 710.4 Overview of scheduled chemicals and examples of affected industries.

The following provides examples of the types of industries that may be affected by the CWCR (parts 710 through 729 of this subchapter). These examples are not exhaustive, and you should refer to parts 712 through 715 of the CWCR to determine your obligations.

(a) Schedule 1 chemicals are listed in supplement no. 1 to part 712 of the CWCR. Schedule 1 chemicals have little or no use in industrial and agricultural industries, but may have limited use for research, pharmaceutical, medical, public health, or protective purposes.

(b) Schedule 2 chemicals are listed in supplement no. 1 to part 713 of the CWCR. Although Schedule 2 chemicals may be useful in the production of chemical weapons, they also have legitimate uses in areas such as:

(1) Flame retardant additives and research;

(2) Dye and photographic industries (e.g., printing ink, ball point pen fluids, copy mediums, paints, etc.);

(3) Medical and pharmaceutical preparation (e.g., anticholinergics, arsenicals, tranquilizer preparations);

(4) Metal plating preparations;

(5) Epoxy resins; and

(6) Insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, defoliants, and rodenticides.

(c) Schedule 3 chemicals are listed in supplement no. 1 to part 714 of the CWCR. Although Schedule 3 chemicals may be useful in the production of chemical weapons, they also have legitimate uses in areas such as:

(1) The production of:

(i) Resins;

(ii) Plastics;

(iii) Pharmaceuticals;

(iv) Pesticides;

(v) Batteries;

(vi) Cyanic acid;

(vii) Toiletries, including perfumes and scents;

(viii) Organic phosphate esters (e.g., hydraulic fluids, flame retardants, surfactants, and sequestering agents); and

(2) Leather tannery and finishing supplies.

(d) Unscheduled discrete organic chemicals are used in a wide variety of commercial industries, and include acetone, benzoyl peroxide and propylene glycol.
