
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations
##### PART 711 - GENERAL INFORMATION REGARDING DECLARATION, REPORTING, AND ADVANCE NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS, AND THE ELECTRONIC FILING OF DECLARATIONS AND REPORTS
###### ยง 711.4 Assistance in determining your obligations.
####### Determining if your chemical is subject to declaration, reporting or advance notification requirements.,cdr@bis.doc.gov

(a)(1) If you need assistance in determining if your chemical is classified as a Schedule 1, Schedule 2, or Schedule 3 chemical, or is an unscheduled discrete organic chemical, submit your written request for a chemical determination to BIS. Such requests must be sent via facsimile to (202) 482-1731, e-mailed to, or mailed to the Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 4515, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230, and must be marked "Attn: Chemical Determination." Your request should include the information noted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to ensure an accurate determination. Also include any additional information that you feel is relevant to the chemical or process involved (see part 718 of the CWCR for provisions regarding treatment of confidential business information). If you are unable to provide all of the information required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you should include an explanation identifying the reasons or deficiencies that preclude you from supplying the information. If BIS cannot make a determination based upon the information submitted, BIS will return the request to you and identify the additional information that is necessary to complete a chemical determination. BIS will provide a written response to your chemical determination request within 10 working days of receipt of the request.

(2) Include the following information in each chemical determination request:

(i) Date of request;

(ii) Company name and complete street address;

(iii) Point of contact;

(iv) Phone and facsimile number of contact;

(v) E-mail address of contact, if you want an acknowledgment of receipt sent via e-mail;

(vi) Chemical Name;

(vii) Structural formula of the chemical, if the chemical is not specifically identified by name and chemical abstract service registry number in Supplements No. 1 to parts 712 through 714 of the CWCR; and

(viii) Chemical Abstract Service registry number, if assigned.
