
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations
##### PART 711 - GENERAL INFORMATION REGARDING DECLARATION, REPORTING, AND ADVANCE NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS, AND THE ELECTRONIC FILING OF DECLARATIONS AND REPORTS
###### ยง 711.8 How to request authorization from BIS to make electronic submissions of declarations or reports.
####### Assignment and use of passwords for facilities, plant sites and trading companies (USC password) and Web-DESI user accounts (user name and password).

(2)(i) Each person, facility, plant site or trading company authorized to submit declarations and reports electronically will be assigned a password (USC password) that must be used in conjunction with the U.S.C. Number. Each person authorized by BIS to view, edit, and/or submit declarations and reports electronically for a facility, plant site or trading company will be assigned a Web-DESI user account (user name and password) telephonically by BIS. A Web-DESI user account will be assigned to you only if your company has certified to BIS that you are authorized to act for it in viewing, editing, and/or submitting electronic declarations and reports under the CWCR.

(ii) Your company may reveal the facility, plant site or trading company password (USC password) only to Web-DESI users with valid passwords, their supervisors, and employees or agents of the company with a commercial justification for knowing the password.

(iii) If you are an authorized Web-DESI account user, you may not:

(A) Disclose your user name or password to anyone;

(B) Record your user name or password, either in writing or electronically;

(C) Authorize another person to use your user name or password; or

(D) Use your user name or password following termination, either by BIS or by your company, of your authorization or approval for Web-DESI use.

(iv) To prevent misuse of the Web-DESI account:

(A) If Web-DESI user account information (i.e., user name and password) is lost, stolen or otherwise compromised, the company and the user must report the loss, theft or compromise of the user account information, immediately, by calling BIS at (202) 482-1001. Within two business days of making the report, the company and the user must submit written confirmation to BIS at the address provided in ยง 711.6 of the CWCR.

(B) Your company is responsible for immediately notifying BIS whenever a Web-DESI user leaves the employ of the company or otherwise ceases to be authorized by the company to submit declarations and reports electronically on its behalf.

(v) No person may use, copy, appropriate or otherwise compromise a Web-DESI account user name or password assigned to another person. No person, except a person authorized access by the company, may use or copy the facility, plant site or trading company password (USC password), nor may any person steal or otherwise compromise this password.
