
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 7 - SECURING THE INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY AND SERVICES SUPPLY CHAIN
#### Subpart C - Enforcement
##### ยง 7.200 Penalties.
###### Criminal penalty.

(2)A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids and abets in the commission of a violation of any final determination, direction, or mitigation agreement shall, upon conviction of a violation of IEEPA, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.

(3) The Secretary may impose a civil penalty of not more than the maximum statutory penalty amount, which, when adjusted for inflation, is $307,922, or twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation, per violation on any person who violates any final determination, direction, or mitigation agreement issued pursuant to this part under IEEPA.

(i) Notice of the penalty, including a written explanation of the penalized conduct specifying the laws and regulations allegedly violated and the amount of the proposed penalty, and notifying the recipient of a right to make a written petition within 30 days as to why a penalty should not be imposed, shall be served on the notified party or parties.

(ii) The Secretary shall review any presentation and issue a final administrative decision within 30 days of receipt of the petition.

(4) Any civil penalties authorized in this section may be recovered in a civil action brought by the United States in U.S. district court.

(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts.

(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).

(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.

(c) The penalties available under this section are without prejudice to other penalties, civil or criminal, available under law. Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency in the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
