
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations
##### PART 712 - ACTIVITIES INVOLVING SCHEDULE 1 CHEMICALS
###### ยง 712.6 Advance notification and annual report of all exports and imports of Schedule 1 chemicals to, or from, other States Parties.
####### Advance notification of exports and imports.

(a)You must notify BIS at least 45 calendar days prior to exporting or importing any quantity of a Schedule 1 chemical, except for exports or imports of 5 milligrams or less of Saxitoxin-B (7)-for medical/diagnostic purposes, listed in supplement no. 1 to this part to or from another State Party. Advance notification of export or import of 5 milligrams or less of Saxitoxin for medical/diagnostic purposes only, must be submitted to BIS at least 3 calendar days prior to export or import. Note that advance notifications for exports may be sent to BIS prior to or after submission of a license application to BIS for Schedule 1 chemicals subject to the EAR and controlled under ECCN 1C351 or to the Department of State for Schedule 1 chemicals controlled under the ITAR. Such advance notifications must be submitted separately from license applications.

(1) Advance notifications should be on company letterhead or must clearly identify the reporting entity by name of company, complete address, name of contact person and telephone and facsimile numbers, along with the following information:

(i) Chemical name;

(ii) Structural formula of the chemical;

(iii) Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) Registry Number;

(iv) Quantity involved in grams;

(v) Planned date of export or import;

(vi) Purpose (end-use) of export or import (i.e., research, medical, pharmaceutical, or protective purposes);

(vii) Name(s) of exporter and importer;

(viii) Complete street address(es) of exporter and importer;

(ix) U.S. export license or control number, if known; and

(x) Company identification number, once assigned by BIS.

(2) Send the advance notification either by fax to (202) 482-1731 or by mail or courier delivery to the following address: Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 4515, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230, and mark it "Attn: Advance Notification of Schedule 1 Chemical [Export] [Import]."

(3) Upon receipt of the advance notification, BIS will inform the exporter or importer of the earliest date after which the shipment may occur under the advance notification procedure. To export a Schedule 1 chemical subject to an export license requirement either under the EAR or the ITAR, the exporter must have applied for and been granted a license (see ยง 742.2 and ยง 742.18 of the EAR, or the ITAR at 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).
