
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations
##### PART 716 - INITIAL AND ROUTINE INSPECTIONS OF DECLARED FACILITIES
###### ยง 716.4 Scope and conduct of inspections.
####### Records review.

(e)(1) The facility must provide the Inspection Team with access to all supporting materials and documentation used by the facility to prepare declarations and to otherwise comply with the requirements of the CWCR. These supporting materials and documentation shall include records related to activities that have taken place at the facility since the beginning of the previous calendar year, regardless of whether or not the facility has submitted its current year Annual Declaration on Past Activities to BIS at the time of the inspection. The facility shall also make available for inspection all records associated with the movement into, around, and from the facility of declared chemicals and their feedstock or any product chemicals formed from such chemicals and feedstock. All supporting materials and documentation subject to the requirements of this paragraph (e) must be retained by the facility in accordance with the requirements of ยง 721.2 of the CWCR. The facility also must permit access to and copying of these records, upon request by BIS or any other agency of competent jurisdiction, in accordance with the requirements of ยง 721.1 of the CWCR.

(2) The facility must provide access to these supporting materials and documentation in appropriate formats (e.g., paper copies, electronic remote access by computer, microfilm, or microfiche), through the U.S. Government Host Team to Inspection Teams, during the inspection period or as otherwise agreed upon by the Inspection Team and Host Team Leader.

(3) The facility must provide the Inspection Team with appropriate accommodations in which to review these supporting materials and documentation.

(4) If a facility does not have access to supporting materials and documentation for activities that took place under previous ownership, because such records were not transferred to the current owner of the facility by the previous owner (e.g., as part of the contract involving the sale of the facility), the previous owner must make such records available to the Host Team for provision to the Inspection Team in accordance with section 305 of the Act. However, the current owner of a facility, upon receiving notification of an inspection (see ยง 716.5 of the CWCR), is responsible for informing BIS if the previous owner did not transfer records for activities that took place under the previous ownership-this will allow BIS to contact the previous owner of the facility, to arrange for access to such records, if BIS deems them relevant to the inspection activities.
