
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations
##### PART 716 - INITIAL AND ROUTINE INSPECTIONS OF DECLARED FACILITIES
###### ยง 716.6 Facility agreements.
####### Notification; negotiation of draft and final facility agreements; and conclusion of facility agreements.

(b)Prior to the development of a facility agreement, BIS shall notify the owner, operator, occupant, or agent in charge of the facility, and if the owner, operator, occupant or agent in charge so requests, the notified person may participate in preparations with BIS representatives for the negotiation of such an agreement. During the initial or routine inspection of a declared facility, the Inspection Team and the Host Team will negotiate a draft facility agreement or amendment to a facility agreement. To the maximum extent practicable consistent with the Convention, the owner and the operator, occupant or agent in charge of the facility may observe facility agreement negotiations between the U.S. Government and OPCW. As a general rule, BIS will consult with the affected facility on the contents of the agreements and take the facility's views into consideration during negotiations. BIS will participate in the negotiation of, and approve, all final facility agreements with the OPCW. Facilities will be notified of and have the right to observe final facility agreement negotiations between the United States and the OPCW to the maximum extent practicable, consistent with the Convention. Prior to the conclusion of a final facility agreement, the affected facility will have an opportunity to comment on the facility agreement. BIS will give consideration to such comments prior to approving final facility agreements with the OPCW. The USNA shall ensure that facility agreements for Schedule 1, Schedule 2, Schedule 3 and UDOC facilities are concluded, as appropriate, with the OPCW in coordination with BIS.

(c) [Reserved]
