
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 730 - GENERAL INFORMATION
###### § 730.8 How to proceed and where to get help.
####### Do you need a license for your item or activity? What policies will BIS apply if you do need to submit license application?

(4)The EAR have four principal ways of describing license requirements:

(i) The EAR may require a license to a country if your item is listed on the CCL and the Country Chart in part 738 of the EAR tells that a license is required to that country. Virtually all Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCN) on the CCL are covered by the Country Chart in part 738 of the EAR. That part identifies the limited number of entries that are not included on the Chart. These ECCNs will state the specific countries that require a license or refer you to a self-contained section, i.e., Short Supply in part 754 of the EAR, or Embargoes in part 746 of the EAR. If a license is required, you should consult part 740 of the EAR which describes the License Exception that may be available for items on the CCL. Part 742 of the EAR describes the licensing policies that BIS will apply in reviewing an application you file. Note that part 754 of the EAR on short supply controls and part 746 on embargoes are self-contained parts that include the available exceptions and licensing policy.

(ii) A license requirement may be based on the end-use or end-user in a transaction, primarily for proliferation reasons. Part 744 of the EAR describes such requirements and relevant licensing policies and includes both restrictions on items and restrictions on the activities of U.S. persons.

(iii) A license is required for virtually all exports to embargoed destinations, such as Cuba. Part 746 of the EAR describes all the licensing requirements, license review policies and License Exceptions that apply to such destinations. If your transaction involves one of these countries, you should first look at this part. This part also describes controls that may be maintained under the EAR to implement UN sanctions.

(iv) In addition, under §§ 736.2(b)(9) and (10) of the EAR, you may not engage in a transaction knowing a violation is about to occur or violate any orders, terms, and conditions under the EAR. Part 764 of the EAR describes prohibited transactions with a person denied export privileges or activity that violates the terms or conditions of a denial order.
