
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 730 - GENERAL INFORMATION
###### ยง 730.8 How to proceed and where to get help.
####### Why the EAR are so detailed.

(b)Some people will find the great length of the EAR and their extensive use of technical terms intimidating. BIS believes, however, that such detail and precision can and does serve the interests of the public. The detailed listing of technical parameters in the CCL establishes precise, objective criteria. This should, in most cases, enable you to ascertain the appropriate control status. Broader, more subjective criteria would leave exporters and reexporters more dependent upon interpretations and rulings by BIS officials. Moreover, much of the detail in the CCL is derived from multilaterally adopted lists, and the specificity serves to enhance the uniformity and effectiveness of international control practices and to promote a "level playing field". The detailed presentation of such elements as licensing and export clearance procedures enables you to find in one place what you need to know to comply with pertinent requirements. Of special importance is the detailed listing of License Exception criteria, as these will enable you to determine quickly, and with confidence, that you may proceed with a transaction without delay. Finally, some of the detail results from the need to draft the EAR with care in order to avoid loop-holes and to permit effective enforcement.
