
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 730 - GENERAL INFORMATION
###### Supplement No. 2 to Part 730 - Technical Advisory Committees
####### Public attendance and participation.

(f)(1) Any member of the public who wishes to do so may file a written statement with any TAC before or after any meeting of a committee.

(2) A request for an opportunity to deliver an oral statement relevant to matters on the agenda of a meeting of a TAC will be granted to the extent that the time available for the meeting permits. A committee may establish procedures requiring such persons to obtain advance approval for such participation.

(3) Attendance at meetings of TACs will be open to the public unless it is determined pursuant to section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act to be necessary to close all, or some portion, of the meeting to the public. A determination that a meeting or portion thereof be closed to the public may be made if all or a specific portion of a meeting of a TAC is concerned with matters described in section 552(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.

(4) Participation by members of the public in open TAC meetings or questioning of committee members or other participants shall not be permitted except in accordance with procedures established by the committee.

(5) Every effort will be made to accommodate all members of the public who wish to attend.
