
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 730 - GENERAL INFORMATION
###### Supplement No. 2 to Part 730 - Technical Advisory Committees
####### Miscellaneous.

(l)(1) TACs established in accordance with paragraph (b) of this supplement must conform to the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Pub. L. 92-463), Office of Management and Budget Circular A-63 (Revision of March 1974), "Advisory Committee Management," Department of Commerce Administrative Order 205-12, "Public Information," the applicable provisions of the EAA, and any other applicable Department of Commerce regulations or procedures affecting the establishment or operation of advisory committees.

(2) Whenever the Department of Commerce desires the advice or assistance of a particular segment of an industry with respect to any export control problem for which the service of a TAC, as described in paragraph (b) of this supplement is either unavailable or impracticable, an advisory committee may be established pursuant to the provisions of section 9 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Such committees will be subject to the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, OMB Circular A-63 (Revision of March 1974), "Advisory Committee Management," Department of Commerce Administrative Order 205-12, "Public Information," and any other applicable Department of Commerce regulations or procedures affecting the establishment or operation of advisory committees.

(3) Nothing in the provisions of this supplement shall be construed to restrict in any manner the right of any person or firm to discuss any export control matter with the Department of Commerce or to offer advice or information on export control matters. Similarly, nothing in these provisions shall be construed to restrict the Department of Commerce in consulting any person or firm relative to any export control matter.
