
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 732 - STEPS FOR USING THE EAR
###### § 732.2 Steps regarding scope of the EAR.
####### Step 2: Publicly available technology and software.

(b)This step is relevant for both exports and reexports. Determine if your technology or software is publicly available as defined and explained at part 734 of the EAR. Supplement no. 1 to part 734 of the EAR contains several practical examples describing publicly available technology and software that are outside the scope of the EAR. The examples are illustrative, not comprehensive. Note that encryption software classified under ECCN 5D002 on the Commerce Control List (refer to supplement no.1 to Part 774 of the EAR) is subject to the EAR even if publicly available, except for publicly available encryption object code software classified under ECCN 5D002 when the corresponding source code meets the criteria specified in § 740.13(e) of the EAR. The following also remains subject to the EAR: "Software" or "technology" for the production of a firearm, or firearm frame or receiver, controlled under ECCN 0A501, as referenced in § 734.7(c) of the EAR).

(1) If your technology or software is publicly available, and therefore outside the scope of the EAR, you may proceed with the export or reexport if you are not a U.S. person subject to General Prohibition Seven. If you are a U.S. person, go to Step 15 at § 732.3(j) of this part. If you are a U.S. person and General Prohibition Seven concerning proliferation activity of U.S. persons does not apply, then you may proceed with the export or reexport of your publicly available technology or software. Note that all U.S. persons are subject to the provisions of General Prohibition Seven.

(2) If your technology or software is not publicly available and you are exporting from the United States, skip to the Step 7 in § 732.3(b) of this part concerning the general prohibitions.

(3) If you are exporting items from a foreign country, you should then proceed to Step 3 in paragraph (c) of this section and the other steps concerning the scope of the EAR.
