
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 732 - STEPS FOR USING THE EAR
###### ยง 732.3 Steps regarding the ten general prohibitions.
####### Reason for control within the Country Chart.

(2)With each of the applicable Country Chart column identifiers noted in the correct ECCN, turn to the Country Chart. Locate the correct Country Chart column identifier on the horizontal axis, and determine whether an "X" is marked in the cell next to the destination in question. Consult ยง 738.4 of the EAR for comprehensive instructions on using the Country Chart and a detailed example.

(i) An "X" in the cell or cells for the relevant country and reason(s) for control column indicates that a license is required for General Prohibitions One (Exports and Reexports in the Form Received), Two (Parts and Components Reexports), and Three (Foreign-Produced Direct Product Reexports). (See ยง 736.2 (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of the EAR).

(ii) If one or more cells have an "X" in the relevant column, a license is required unless you qualify for a License Exception described in part 740 of the EAR. If a cell does not contain an "X" for your destination in one or more relevant columns, a license is not required under the CCL and the Country Chart.

(iii) Additional controls may apply to your export. You must go on to steps 12 through 18 described in paragraphs (g) to (m) of this section to determine whether additional limits described in General Prohibition Two (Parts and Components Reexports) and General Prohibition Three (Foreign-Produced Direct Product Reexports) apply to your proposed transaction. If you are exporting an item from the United States, you should skip Step 10 and Step 11. Proceed directly to Step 12 in paragraph (g) of this section.
