
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 732 - STEPS FOR USING THE EAR
###### ยง 732.3 Steps regarding the ten general prohibitions.
####### Step 11: Foreign-produced direct product rule-General Prohibition Three.

(f)Foreign-produced items located outside the U.S. that are the direct product of "technology" or "software" subject to the EAR or produced by a plant or major component of a plant located outside the United States that is a direct product of U.S.-origin "technology" or "software" subject to the EAR, whether made in the U.S. or a foreign country, may be subject to the EAR if they meet the conditions of General Prohibition Three in ยง 736.2(b)(3). Direct products that are subject to the EAR may require a license to be exported from abroad, transferred (in-country), or reexported to specified countries or end users. If your foreign item meets the conditions of the foreign-produced direct product rule (General Prohibition Three), then your export from abroad, transfer (in-country), or reexport is subject to the EAR. You should next consider the steps regarding all other general prohibitions, license exceptions, and other requirements. If your item does not meet the conditions of General Prohibition Three, then your export from abroad, transfer (in-country), or reexport is not subject to the EAR. You have completed the steps necessary to determine whether your transaction is subject to the EAR, and you may skip the remaining steps.
