
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 732 - STEPS FOR USING THE EAR
###### § 732.3 Steps regarding the ten general prohibitions.
####### Step 14: Embargoed countries and special destinations.,i.e.,

(i)If your destination for any item is Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, or Syria, you must consider the requirements of parts 742 and 746 of the EAR. Unless otherwise indicated, General Prohibition Six (Embargo) applies to all items subject to the EAR,both items on the CCL and within EAR99. See § 746.1(b) for destinations subject to limited sanctions under United Nations Security Council arms embargoes. See §§ 746.5 for Russian and Belarusian industry sector sanctions, 746.6 for Crimea region of Ukraine and covered regions of Ukraine, 746.8 for Sanctions against Russia and Belarus, and 746.10 for `luxury goods' sanctions against Russia and Belarus and Russian and Belarusian oligarchs and malign actors. You may not make an export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) contrary to the provisions of part 746 of the EAR without a license unless:

(1) You are exporting, reexporting, or transferring only published information or software as specified in § 734.7 or other items outside the scope of the EAR, or

(2) You qualify for a License Exception referenced in part 746 of the EAR concerning embargoed destinations. You may not use a license exception described in part 740 of the EAR to overcome General Prohibition Six (Embargo) (§ 736.2(b)(6) of the EAR) unless it is specifically authorized in part 746 of the EAR. Note that part 754 of the EAR concerning short supply controls is self-contained and is the only location in the EAR for both the prohibitions and exceptions applicable to short supply controls.
