
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 732 - STEPS FOR USING THE EAR
###### § 732.4 Steps regarding License Exceptions.
####### Step 22: Terms and conditions of the License Exceptions.

(3)(i) If none of the restrictions in § 740.2 of the EAR applies, then review each of the License Exceptions to determine whether any one of them authorizes your export or reexport. Eligibility for License Exceptions is based on the item, the country of ultimate destination, the end-use, and the end-user, along with any special conditions imposed within a specific License Exception.

(ii) You may meet the conditions for more than one License Exception. Moreover, although you may not qualify for some License Exceptions you may qualify for others. Review the broadest License Exceptions first, and use any License Exception available to you. You are not required to use the most restrictive applicable License Exception. If you fail to qualify for the License Exception that you first consider, you may consider any other License Exception until you have determined that no License Exception is available.

(iii) License Exceptions TMP, RPL, BAG, AVS, GOV, and TSU authorize exports notwithstanding the provisions of the CCL. List-based License Exceptions (LVS, GBS, CIV, TSR, and APP) are available only to the extent specified on the CCL. Part 740 of the EAR provides authorization for reexports only to the extent each License Exception expressly authorizes reexports. Some ECCNs contain License Exception STA exclusion paragraphs. Those paragraphs delineate items excluded from the License Exception STA provisions in § 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR. License Exception APR authorizes reexports only.

(iv) If you are exporting under License Exceptions GBS, CIV, LVS, STA, APP, TSR or GOV, you should review § 743.1 of the EAR to determine the applicability of certain reporting requirements. If you are exporting under License Exceptions LVS, TMP, RPL, STA, or GOV and your item is classified in the "600 series," you should review § 743.4 of the EAR to determine the applicability of certain reporting requirements for conventional arms exports.
