
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 732 - STEPS FOR USING THE EAR
###### ยง 732.4 Steps regarding License Exceptions.
####### Step 26: License applications.

(7)(i) If you are going to file a license application with BIS, you should first review the requirements in part 748 of the EAR. Exporters, reexporters, and transferors should review the instructions concerning applications and required support documents prior to submitting an application for a license.

(ii) If you are going to file a license application with BIS for the export, reexport, or in-country transfer for aircraft or military vessels controlled under ECCNs 0A606.a, 8A609.a, 8A620.a, 8A620.b, certain "spacecraft" controlled under ECCN subparagraphs 9A515.a.1, a.2, a.3, a.4 or 9A515.g, ECCN 9A610.a, or technology under ECCNs 9E515.b, .d, .e, or .f, ยง 740.20(g) permits you to request in the application that subsequent exports of the type of aircraft, spacecraft, military vessels, or technology at issue be eligible for export under License Exception STA. The types of "items" controlled under ECCNs 0A606.a, 8A609.a, 8A620.a, 8A620.b, certain spacecraft controlled under ECCN subparagraphs 9A515.a.1, a.2, a.3, a.4 or 9A515.g, ECCN 9A610.a, and technology ECCNs 9E515.b, .d, .e, or .f, that have been determined to be eligible for License Exception STA pursuant to ยง 740.20(g) are identified in the License Exceptions paragraphs of ECCNs 0A606, 8A609, 8A620, 9A610, 9A515, and 9E515. Supplement No. 2 to part 748, paragraph (w) (License Exception STA eligibility requests), contains the instructions for such applications.
