
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 734 - SCOPE OF THE EXPORT ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS
###### ยง 734.9 Foreign-Direct Product (FDP) Rules.
####### Certification.,See

(3)Exporters, reexporters, and transferors may obtain a written certification from a supplier that asserts an item being provided would be subject to the EAR if future transaction meet the destination scope in paragraph (h)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. The model certificate provided by BIS in supplement no. 1 to this part is not required under the EAR, but through its provision, the certificate may assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors with the process of resolving potential red flags regarding whether an item is subject to the EAR based on this paragraph (h). The model certificate provided by BIS contemplates signature by an official or designated employee of the certifying company and inclusion of all the information described in paragraph (b) of supplement no. 1 to this part. If the exporter, reexporter, or transferors has not obtained such a certification, due diligence needs to be conducted to determine if the items meets the scope in this paragraph (h). While this certificate is expected to be useful for a company to understand the application of the EAR to an item, BIS does not view this as the only step to be completed during a company's due diligence process.supplement no. 1 to this part and supplement no. 3 to part 732 of the EAR.
