
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 734 - SCOPE OF THE EXPORT ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 734 - Model Certification for Purposes of Advanced Computing FDP Rule
####### General.

(a)This supplement is included in the EAR to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in determining whether the items being exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) are subject to the EAR based on the advanced computing FDP rule under ยง 734.9(h). The model certificate provided by BIS in this supplement is not required under the EAR, but through its provision, the certificate may assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors with the process of resolving potential red flags regarding whether an item is subject to the EAR based on ยง 734.9(h). The model certificate provided in this supplement by BIS contemplates signature by an official or designated employee of the certifying company and inclusion of all the information described in paragraph (b) of this supplement. Any certification relied on for this part must be retained pursuant to part 762 of the EAR.

Obtaining the certification set forth in this supplement does not relieve exporters, reexporters, and transferors of their obligation to exercise due diligence in determining whether items are subject to the EAR, including by following the "Know Your Customer" guidance in supplement no. 3 to part 732 of the EAR.
