
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 8 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### Appendix A to Part 8 - Federal Financial Assistance Covered by Title VI
##### et seq.

1. Operating differential subsidy assistance to operators of U.S. flag vessels engaged in U.S. foreign commerce (46 U.S.C. 1171).

2. Assistance to operate State maritime academies and colleges to train merchant marine officers (46 U.S.C. 1381-1388).

3. Ship construction differential subsidies, direct payments (Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as amended, 46 U.S.C. 1151-1161).

1. Grants to universities and other research organizations for fire research and safety programs (15 U.S.C. 278f).

1. Academy planning assistance: To assist States in the development of training and education in the fire prevention and control area (15 U.S.C. 2201-2219).

2. State fire incident reporting assistance: To assist States in the establishment and operation of a statewide fire incident and casualty reporting system (15 U.S.C. 2201-2219).

3. Public education assistance planning: Publications, audiovisual presentations and demonstrations, research, testing, and experimentation to determine the most effective means for such public education (15 U.S.C. 2205c).

4. Policy development assistance: Studies of the operations and management aspects of fire services (15 U.S.C. 2207c).

1. Assistance to States, educational institutions, and the commercial fishing industry for the development of tuna and other latent fisheries (16 U.S.C. 758e).

2. Assistance to States for the development and implementation of programs to protect and study certain species of marine mammals (16 U.S.C. 1379b).

3. Financial assistance to States with agencies which have entered into a cooperative agreement to assist in the preservation of threatened and endangered species (16 U.S.C. 1535).

4. Assistance to coastal States for the development of estuarine sanctuaries to serve as field laboratories and for acquiring access to public beaches (16 U.S.C. 1461).

5. Assistance to coastal States for the development, implementation, and administration of coastal zone management programs (16 U.S.C. 1454-1455).

6. Assistance to coastal States to help communities in dealing with the economic, social, and environmental consequences resulting from expanded coastal energy activity (16 U.S.C. 1456).

7. Authority to enter into cooperative agreements with "colleges and universities, with game and fish departments of the several States, and with nonprofit organizations relating to cooperative research units." Assistance limited to assignment of personnel, supplies, and incidental expenses (16 U.S.C. 753 a and b).

8. Grants for education and training of personnel in the field of commercial fishing, "to public and nonprofit private universities and colleges * * *" (16 U.S.C. 760d).

9. Grants for "office and any other necessary space" for the Northern Pacific Halibut Commission (16 U.S.C. 772).

10. The "Dingell Johnson Act": Apportionment of dollars to States for restoration and management of sport or recreational species (16 U.S.C. 777-777i; 777k).

11. Authority to cooperate with and provide assistance to States in controlling jellyfish, etc. (16 U.S.C. 1201, 1202).

12. Authority to cooperate with and provide assistance to certain States and territories in the study and control of "Crown of Thorns" starfish (16 U.S.C. 1211-1213).

13. Technical assistance to fishing cooperatives regarding catching and marketing aquatic products (15 U.S.C. 521-522).

14. Fish research and experimentation program cooperation with other agencies in acquisition of lands, construction of buildings, employment of personnel in establishing and maintaining research stations (16 U.S.C. 778a).

15. Assistance to upgrade commercial fishing vessels and gear (16 U.S.C. 742c).

16. Assistance to State projects designed for the research and development of commercial fisheries resources of the nation (16 U.S.C. 779a-779f).
