
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 734 - SCOPE OF THE EXPORT ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS
######***De Minimis*** ####### Supplement No. 2 to Part 734 - Guidelines forRules
######## U.S.-origin controlled content.,de minimis,de minimis

(1)To identify U.S.-origin controlled content for purposes of therules, you must determine the Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) of each U.S.-origin item incorporated into a foreign-made product. Then, you must identify which, if any, of those U.S.-origin items would require a license from BIS if they were to be exported or reexported (in the form in which you received them) to the foreign-made product's country of destination. For purposes of identifying U.S.-origin controlled content, you should consult the Commerce Country Chart in supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR and controls described in part 746 of the EAR (excluding U.S.-origin content that meets the criteria in §§ 746.7(a)(1)(v) and 746.8(a)(5)). Part 744 of the EAR should not be used to identify controlled U.S. content for purposes of determining the applicability of therules. In identifying U.S.-origin controlled content, do not take account of commodities, software, or technology that could be exported or reexported to the country of destination without a license (designated as "NLR") or under License Exception GBS (see part 740 of the EAR). Commodities subject only to short supply controls are not included in calculating U.S. content.
