
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 734 - SCOPE OF THE EXPORT ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS
######***De Minimis*** ####### Supplement No. 2 to Part 734 - Guidelines forRules
######## Value of U.S.-origin controlled content.

(2)The value of the U.S.-origin controlled content shall reflect the fair market price of such content in the market where the foreign product is being produced. In most cases, this value will be the same as the actual cost to the foreign manufacturer of the U.S.-origin commodity, technology, or software. When the foreign manufacturer and the U.S. supplier are affiliated and have special arrangements that result in below-market pricing, the value of the U.S.-origin controlled content should reflect fair market prices that would normally be charged to unaffiliated customers in the same foreign market. If fair market value cannot be determined based upon actual arms-length transaction data for the U.S.-origin controlled content in question, then you must determine another reliable valuation method to calculate or derive the fair market value. Such methods may include the use of comparable market prices or costs of production and distribution. The EAR do not require calculations based upon any one accounting system or U.S. accounting standards. However, the method you use must be consistent with your business practice.
