
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 8 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
#### Appendix A to Part 8 - Federal Financial Assistance Covered by Title VI
##### et seq.

17. Assistance to State and other non-Federal interests under cooperative agreements to conserve, develop, and enhance anadromous and Great Lakes Fisheries (16 U.S.C. 757a).

18. Grants and other assistance under the National Sea Grant College and Program Act of 1966: To support establishment of major university centers for marine research, education, training, and advisory services (33 U.S.C. 1121-1124).

19. Geodetic surveys and services; advisory services; dissemination of technical information (33 U.S.C. 883a).

20. Nautical charts assistance; advisory services; dissemination of technical information (33 U.S.C. 883a).

21. River and flood forecast and warning services; advisory services (15 U.S.C. 313).

22. Weather forecast and warning services (15 U.S.C. 311 and 313, 49 U.S.C. 1351 and 1463).

23. Commercial fisheries disaster assistance (16 U.S.C. 779b).

24. Provision for the Weather Service to assist in joint projects "of mutual interest" (15 U.S.C. 1525).

1. Grants for the planning and construction of public telecommunications facilities for the production and distribution of noncommercial educational and cultural radio and television programming and related instructional and informational materials. (Public Telecommunications Financing Act of 1978, 47 U.S.C. Sections 390-394).

1. Assistance to minority business enterprises: Grants, contracts, advisory service, technical information (15 U.S.C. 1512; title III of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 3151; Executive Order 11625, Oct. 13, 1971).

1. Supplemental grants to Federal grant-in-aid programs and technical assistance funds for planning, investigations, studies, training programs, and demonstration projects, including demonstrations in energy, transportation, health and nutrition, education and indigenous arts and crafts (title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 3181-3196).
