
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 736 - GENERAL PROHIBITIONS
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 736 - General Orders

(a) General Order No. 1:

General Order No. 1 of September 16, 1998; Establishing a 24-month validity period on reexport authorizations issued without a validity period and revoking those exceeding that period.

(1) Reexport authorizations issued within 24-months of the General Order. All reexport authorizations issued with no validity period within the 24-months preceding September 16, 1998 shall be deemed to have an expiration date which shall be the date 24-months from the date of issuance of the reexport authorization or November 16, 1998, whichever is longer.

(2) Reexport authorizations issued before the 24-month period preceding the General Order. For reexport authorizations issued with no validity period before the 24-month period preceding September 16, 1998:

(i) Effective September 16, 1998, all such outstanding reexport authorizations for terrorist-supporting countries (see parts 742 and 746 of the EAR) are revoked.

(ii) Effective November 16, 1998, all other such outstanding reexport authorizations are revoked.

(3) Extensions. If necessary, you may request extensions of such authorizations according to procedures set forth in ยง 750.7(g) of the EAR.

(4) Specific Notice from BIS. If you have received, or should you receive, specific notice from BIS with regard to a reexport authorization covered by this General Order, informing you of a revocation, suspension, or revision (including validity period) of any such reexport authorization, then the terms of that specific notice will be controlling.

(5) Definition of "authorization". The term "authorization" as used in this General Order encompasses the range of reexport authorizations granted by BIS, which includes licenses, individual letters, and other types of notifications.

(b) General Order No. 2:

General Order No. 2; section 5(b) of the Syria Accountability and Lebanese Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2003 (SAA) gives the President authority to waive the application of certain prohibitions set forth in the SAA if the President determines that it is in the national security interest of the United States to do so. The President made such a determination in Executive Order 13338, finding that it was "in the national security interest of the United States to waive application of subsection 5(a)(1) and 5(a)(2)(A) of the SAA so as to permit the exportation or reexportation of certain items as specified in the Department of Commerce's General Order No. 2." The President's reference to General Order No. 2 addresses applications to export and reexport the following items, which are considered on a case-by-case basis as opposed to the general policy of denial set forth in section 746.9 of the Regulations: Items in support of activities, diplomatic or otherwise, of the United States Government (to the extent that regulation of such exportation or reexportation would not fall within the President's constitutional authority to conduct the nation's foreign affairs); medicine (on the CCL) and medical devices (both as defined in part 772 of the EAR); parts and components intended to ensure the safety of civil aviation and the safe operation of commercial passenger aircraft; aircraft chartered by the Syrian Government for the transport of Syrian Government officials on official Syrian Government business; telecommunications equipment and associated computers, software and technology; items in support of United Nations operations in Syria; and items necessary for the support of the Syrian people, including, but not limited to, items related to water supply and sanitation, agricultural production and food processing, power generation, oil and gas production, construction and engineering, transportation, and educational infrastructure. The total dollar value of each approved license for aircraft parts for flight safety normally will be limited to no more than $2 million over the 24-month standard license term, except in the case of complete overhauls.

(c) General Order No. 3:

General Order No. 3 of July 22, 2015. Certain licenses issued by BIS prior to July 22, 2015 contain conditions that restrict the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) to or within Country Group E:1 as specified in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. At the time those license were issued, Cuba was in Country Group E:1. Many of those restrictions were intended to apply to Cuba, not only as a State Sponsor of Terrorism but also as a country subject to unilateral embargo. However, BIS did not always list both Country Groups E:1 and E:2 in license conditions because, at the time, doing so would have been redundant. However, with the rescission of Cuba's designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism and resultant removal from Country Group E:1, continuing those conditions with respect to Cuba is consistent with the embargo. Accordingly, all conditions that apply to Country Group E:1 on licenses issued prior to July 22, 2015 that are in effect on that date, are revised to apply to Country Groups E:1 and E:2 as specified in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. Licensees who seek authorization for transactions that are affected by this General Order No. 3 may submit license applications that refer to General Order No. 3 and explain the reason for the request in Block 24 of the application. All license applications involving Cuba are reviewed pursuant to the licensing policy in ยง 746.2(b) of the EAR. The request should provide any available information in support of the argument that the transaction would be consistent with the licensing policy in ยง 746.2(b) of the EAR.

(d) General Order No. 4: The purpose of this General Order is to avoid disruption of supply chains for items specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this supplement that are ultimately destined to customers outside of People's Republic of China (China) or Macau.
