
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 736 - GENERAL PROHIBITIONS
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 736 - General Orders
####### Temporary General License (TGL).

(1)BIS authorizes, from October 21, 2022, through April 7, 2023, exports, reexports, in-country transfers, and exports from abroad destined to or within China or Macau by companies not headquartered in Country Groups D:1 or D:5 or E (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) to continue or engage in integration, assembly (mounting), inspection, testing, quality assurance, and distribution of items covered by ECCN 3A090, 4A090, and associated software and technology in ECCN 3D001, 3E001, 4D090, or 4E001; or any item that is a computer, integrated circuit, "electronic assembly" or "component" and associated software and technology, specified elsewhere on Commerce Control List (supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR), which meets or exceeds the performance parameters of ECCN 3A090 or 4A090. This does not authorize the export, reexport, in-country transfer, or export from abroad to "end-users" or "ultimate consignees" in China or Macau. This TGL does not overcome the license requirements of §§ 744.11 or 744.21 when an entity listed in supplements no. 4 or 7 to part 744 is a party to the transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) of the EAR, or when there is knowledge of any other prohibited end use or end user. This TGL is only for companies that engage in the specific activities authorized under this TGL.
