
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 738 - COMMERCE CONTROL LIST OVERVIEW AND THE COUNTRY CHART
###### ยง 738.2 Commerce Control List (CCL) structure.
####### Entries,Composition of an entry.,A,3,0

(d)-(1)Within each group, individual items are identified by an Export Control Classification Number (ECCN). Each number consists of a set of digits and a letter. The first digit identifies the general category within which the entry falls (e.g., 3001). The letter immediately following this first digit identifies under which of the five groups the item is listed (e.g.,A001). The second digit differentiates individual entries by identifying the type of controls associated with the items contained in the entry (e.g., 3A01). Listed below are the Reasons for Control associated with this second digit.

(i) Since Reasons for Control are not mutually exclusive, numbers are assigned in order of precedence. As an example, if an item is controlled for both National Security and Missile Technology reasons, the entry's third alphanumeric character will be a "0". If the item is controlled only for Missile Technology the third alphanumeric character will be "1".

(ii) The numbers in either the second or third digit (e.g., 3A1) serve to differentiate between multilateral and unilateral entries. An entry with the number "9" as the second digit, identifies the entire entry as controlled for a unilateral concern (e.g., 2B991 for anti-terrorism reasons). If the number "9" appears as the third digit, the item is controlled for unilateral purposes based on a proliferation concern (e.g., 2A290 is controlled for unilateral purposes based on nuclear nonproliferation concerns).

(iii) The last digit within each entry (e.g., 3A001) is used for the sequential numbering of ECCNs to differentiate between entries on the CCL.

(iv) Last two characters in a "600 series" ECCN. The last two characters of each "600 series" ECCN generally track the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List (WAML) categories for the types of items at issue. The WAML ML21 ("software") and ML22 ("technology") are, however, included in D ("software") and E ("technology") CCL product groups to remain consistent with the structure of the CCL.
