
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 738 - COMMERCE CONTROL LIST OVERVIEW AND THE COUNTRY CHART
###### ยง 738.2 Commerce Control List (CCL) structure.
####### License Requirements.

(ii)This section contains a separate line identifying all possible Reasons for Control in order of precedence, and two columns entitled "Control(s)" and "Country Chart".

(A) The "Controls" header identifies all applicable Reasons for Control, in order of restrictiveness, and to what extent each applies (e.g., to the entire entry or only to certain subparagraphs). Those requiring licenses for a larger number of countries and/or items are listed first. As you read down the list the number of countries and/or items requiring a license declines. Since Reasons for Control are not mutually exclusive, items controlled within a particular ECCN may be controlled for more than one reason. The following is a list of all possible Reasons for Control:

(B) The "Country Chart" header identifies, for each applicable Reason for Control, a column name and number (e.g., CB Column 1). These column identifiers are used to direct you from the CCL to the appropriate column identifying the countries requiring a license. Consult part 742 of the EAR for an indepth discussion of the licensing requirements and policies applicable to each Country Chart column.
