
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 738 - COMMERCE CONTROL LIST OVERVIEW AND THE COUNTRY CHART
###### ยง 738.2 Commerce Control List (CCL) structure.
####### License Exceptions.

(iii)This section provides a brief eligibility statement for each ECCN-driven License Exception that may be applicable to your transaction, and should be consulted only AFTER you have determined a license is required based on an analysis of the entry and the Country Chart. The brief eligibility statement in this section is provided to assist you in deciding which ECCN-driven License Exception related to your particular item and destination you should explore prior to submitting an application. The term "Yes" (followed in some instances by the scope of Yes) appears next to each available ECCN-driven License Exception. Some ECCNs have License Exception STA exclusion paragraphs. These paragraphs identify items for which the License Exception STA provisions in ยง 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR may not be used, but do not otherwise affect License Exception STA availability. The term "N/A" will be noted for License Exceptions that are not available within a particular entry. In some "600 series" ECCNs, the STA license exception paragraph or a note to the License Exceptions section contains additional information on the availability of License Exception STA for that ECCN. If one or more License Exceptions appear to apply to your transaction, you must consult part 740 of the EAR to review the conditions and restrictions applicable to each available License Exception. The list of License Exceptions contained within each ECCN is not an all-exclusive list. Other License Exceptions, not based on particular ECCNs, may be available. Consult part 740 of the EAR to determine eligibility for non-ECCN-driven License Exceptions.
