
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 738 - COMMERCE CONTROL LIST OVERVIEW AND THE COUNTRY CHART
###### ยง 738.4 Determining whether a license is required.
####### Review the Country Chart.

(ii)With each of the applicable Country Chart Column identifiers noted, turn to the Country Chart (supplement no. 1 to part 738). Locate the correct Country Chart column identifier on the diagonal headings, and determine whether an "X" is marked in the cell next to the country in question for each Country Chart column identified in the applicable ECCN. If your item is subject to more than one reason for control, repeat this step using each unique Country Chart column identifier.

(A) If yes, a license application must be submitted based on the particular reason for control and destination, unless a License Exception applies. If "Yes" is noted next to any of the listed License Exceptions, you should consult part 740 of the EAR to determine whether you can use any of the available ECCN-driven License Exceptions to effect your shipment, rather than applying for a license. Each affirmative license requirement must be overcome by a License Exception. If you are unable to qualify for a License Exception based on each license requirement noted on the Country Chart, you must apply for a license. Note that other License Exceptions, not related to the CCL, may also apply to your transaction (See part 740 of the EAR).

(B) If no, a license is not required based on the particular Reason for Control and destination. Provided that General Prohibitions Four through Ten do not apply to your proposed transaction and the License Requirement section does not refer you to any other part of the EAR to determine license requirements. For example, any applicable encryption classification requirements described in ยง 740.17(b) of the EAR must be met for certain mass market encryption items to affect your shipment using the symbol "NLR." Proceed to parts 758 and 762 of the EAR for information on export clearance procedures and recordkeeping requirements. Note that although you may stop after determining a license is required based on the first Reason for Control, it is best to work through each applicable Reason for Control. A full analysis of every possible licensing requirement based on each applicable Reason for Control is required to determine the most advantageous License Exception available for your particular transaction and, if a license is required, ascertain the scope of review conducted by BIS on your license application.
