
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.1 Introduction.
####### Scope.

(a)A "License Exception" is an authorization contained in this part that allows you to export or reexport under stated conditions, items subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) that would otherwise require a license under General Prohibition One, Two, Three, or Eight, as indicated under one or more of the Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCNs) in the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR and items subject to the EAR that would require a license based on the embargo policies described in part 746 of the EAR. If your export or reexport is subject to General Prohibition Six for embargoed destinations, refer to part 746 of the EAR to determine the availability of any License Exceptions. Special commodity controls apply to short supply items. License Exceptions for items listed on the CCL as controlled for Short Supply reasons are found in part 754 of the EAR. If your export or reexport is subject to General Prohibition Five, consult part 744 of the EAR. If your export or reexport is subject to General Prohibitions Four, Seven, Nine, or Ten, then no License Exceptions apply. Any license exception authorizing reexports also authorizes in-country transfers, provided the terms and conditions for reexports under that license exception are met.
