
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### § 740.2 Restrictions on all License Exceptions.
####### e.g.,

(ii) Technology required for the "development" or "production" of third generation or greater (Electron Bombarded Active Pixel Sensor (EBAPS)) image intensifier tubes described in ECCN 6A002.

(8) The item is controlled under ECCNs 2A983, 2A984, 2D983, 2D984, 2E983 or 2E984 and the License Exception is other than:

(i) RPL, under the provisions of § 740.10, including § 740.10(a)(3)(v), which prohibits exports and reexports of replacement parts to countries in Country Group E:1 (see Supplement 1 to part 740));

(ii) GOV, restricted to eligibility under the provisions of § 740.11(b)(2)(ii); or

(iii) TSU, under the provisions of § 740.13(a) and (c).

(9) The item is identified in paragraphs (a)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section, being exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) to or within the People's Republic of China (PRC) or Macau, and the license exception is other than: RPL (excluding 3B090, 3D001 (for 3B090), and 3E001 (for 3B090)), under the provisions of § 740.10, including § 740.10(a)(3)(v), which prohibits exports and reexports of replacement parts to countries in Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part)); GOV, restricted to eligibility under the provisions of § 740.11(b)(2)(ii); or TSU (excluding 3B090, 3D001 (for 3B090), and 3E001 (for 3B090)), under the provisions of § 740.13(a) and (c). Items restricted to eligibility only for the foregoing license exceptions are:

(i) Controlled under ECCNs 3A090, 3B090, 4A090, or associated software and technology in 3D001, 3E001, 4D090, and 4E001; or

(ii) A computer, integrated circuit, "electronic assembly" or "component" specified elsewhere on the CCL which meets or exceeds the performance parameters of ECCN 3A090 or 4A090.

(10) The commodity being exported or reexported is subject to the license requirements of § 742.11 of the EAR.

(11) The item is a "military commodity" subject to ECCN 0A919, except that such military commodities may be reexported in accordance with § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) (official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government).

(12) The item is described in a 9x515 or "600 series" ECCN and is destined to, shipped from, or was manufactured in a destination listed in Country Group D:5 or Hong Kong (see Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR), except that:

(i) 9x515 or "600 series" items destined to, or in, Country Group D:5 are eligible for License Exception GOV (§ 740.11(b)(2) of the EAR); and

(ii) 1A613.c or .d items destined to, or in, Country Group D:5 are eligible for License Exception TMP (§ 740.9(a)(11) of the EAR) or License Exception BAG (§ 740.14(h)(2) of the EAR).

(13) "600 series" items that are controlled for missile technology (MT) reasons may not be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under License Exception STA (§ 740.20 of the EAR). Items controlled under ECCNs 9D610.b, 9D619.b, 9E610.b, or 9E619.b or .c are not eligible for license exceptions except for License Exception GOV (§ 740.11(b)(2) of the EAR). Only the following license exceptions may be used to export "600 series" items to destinations other than those identified in Country Group D:5 or Hong Kong (see Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR):

(i) License Exception LVS (§ 740.3 of the EAR);

(ii) License Exception TMP (§ 740.9 of the EAR);

(iii) License Exception RPL (§ 740.10 of the EAR);

(iv) License Exception TSU (§ 740.13(a), (b), (f) and (g) of the EAR);

(v) License Exception GOV (§ 740.11(b) or (c) of the EAR);

(vi) License Exception BAG (§ 740.14); and

(vii) License Exception STA under § 740.20(c)(1) of the EAR, provided all of the applicable terms and conditions, including those specific to the "600 series" are met.

(14) Items classified under ECCNs 0A521, 0B521, 0C521, 0D521 and 0E521 may only be authorized by License Exception GOV (§ 740.11(b)(2)(ii)) or an item-specific license exception identified in supplement no. 5 to part 774 for a particular ECCN 0Y521 item.

(15) If they are sold under a contract that includes $14,000,000 or more of "600 Series Major Defense Equipment" (as defined in § 772.1), exports of "600 series" items to a country not listed in Country Group A:5 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR), are not eligible for any license exception except to U.S. Government end users under License Exception GOV (§ 740.11(b) of the EAR).

(16) If they are sold under a contract that includes $25,000,000 or more of "600 Series Major Defense Equipment" (as defined in § 772.1), exports of "600 series" items to a country listed in Country Group A:5 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR), are not eligible for any license exception except to U.S. Government end users under License Exception GOV (§ 740.11(b) of the EAR).

(17) A party to the transaction, as described in § 748.5 of the EAR, is listed on the Unverified List in supplement no. 6 to part 744, see § 744.15 of the EAR.

(18) 9x515 items that are controlled for missile technology (MT) reasons may not be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under License Exception STA (§ 740.20 of the EAR).

(19) The exporter or reexporter to Hong Kong of any item subject to the EAR and controlled on the CCL for NS, MT, NP Column 1, or CB reasons has not received one of the following with respect to the item:

(i) A copy of an import license issued to the Hong Kong importer by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, pursuant to the Hong Kong Import and Export (Strategic Commodities) Regulations, that covers all items to be exported or reexported pursuant to that license exception for which a Hong Kong import license is required and that is valid on the date of the export or reexport that is subject to the EAR; or

(ii) A copy of a written statement issued by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region that no import license is required to import into Hong Kong the item(s) to be exported or reexported. The statement may have been issued directly to the Hong Kong importer or it may be a written statement available to the general public. The statement may be used for more than one export or reexport to Hong Kong so long as it remains an accurate statement of Hong Kong law.

(20) The reexporter from Hong Kong of any item subject to the EAR controlled on the CCL for NS, MT, NP column 1, or CB reasons has not received one of the following with respect to the item:

(i) An export license issued by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, pursuant to the Hong Kong Import and Export (Strategic Commodities) Regulations, that covers all items to be reexported pursuant to that license exception for which a Hong Kong export license is required and that is valid on the date of the reexport that is subject to the EAR; or

(ii) A copy of a written statement issued by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region that no Hong Kong export license is required for the item(s) to be rexported. The statement may have been issued directly to the Hong Kong reexporter or it may be a written statement available to the general public. The statement may be used for more than one reexport from Hong Kong so long as it remains an accurate statement of Hong Kong law.
