
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### § 740.7 Computers (APP).
####### i.e.,

(3) Computers and software eligible for License Exception APP may not be reexported or transferred (in country) without prior authorization from BIS,a license, a permissive reexport, another License Exception, or "No License Required". This restriction must be conveyed to the consignee, via the Destination Control Statement, see § 758.6 of the EAR. Additionally, the end-use and end-user restrictions in paragraph (b)(5) of this section must be conveyed to any consignee in Computer Tier 3.

(4) You may not use this License Exception to export or reexport items that you know will be used to enhance the APP beyond the eligibility limit allowed to your country of destination.

(5) License Exception APP does not authorize exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) for nuclear, chemical, biological, or missile end-users and end-uses subject to license requirements under §§ 744.2, 744.3, 744.4, and 744.5 of the EAR. Such exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) will continue to require a license and will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Reexports and transfers (in-country) to these end-users and end-uses in eligible countries are strictly prohibited without prior authorization.

(6) Foreign nationals in an expired visa status are not eligible to receive deemed exports of technology or source code under this License Exception. It is the responsibility of the exporter to ensure that, in the case of deemed exports, the foreign national maintains a valid U.S. visa, if required to hold a visa from the United States.
