
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.9 Temporary imports, exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) (TMP).
####### Temporary exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country).

(a)License Exception TMP authorizes exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of items for temporary use abroad (including use in or above international waters) subject to the conditions specified in this paragraph (a). No item may be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under this paragraph (a) if an order to acquire the item, such as a purchase order, has been received before shipment; with prior knowledge that the item will stay abroad beyond the terms of this License Exception; or when the item is for subsequent lease or rental abroad. The references to various countries and country groups in these TMP-specific provisions do not limit or amend the prohibitions in ยง 740.2 of the EAR on the use of license exceptions generally, such as for exports of 9x515 or "600 series" items to destinations in Country Group D:5. This paragraph (a) does not authorize any export of a commodity controlled under ECCNs 0A501.a or .b, or shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches controlled under ECCN 0A502 to, or any export of such an item that was imported into the United States from, a country in Country Group D:5 (supplement no. 1 to this part), or from Russia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan. The only provisions of this paragraph (a) that are eligible for use to export such items are paragraph (a)(5) of this section ("Exhibition and demonstration") and paragraph (a)(6) of this section ("Inspection, test, calibration, and repair"). In addition, this paragraph (a) may not be used to export more than 75 firearms per shipment. In accordance with the requirements in ยง 758.1(b)(9) and (g)(4) of the EAR, the exporter or its agent must provide documentation that includes the serial number, make, model, and caliber of each firearm being exported by filing these data elements in an EEI filing in AES. In accordance with the exclusions in License Exception TMP under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the entry clearance requirements in ยง 758.1(b)(9) do not permit the temporary import of: Firearms controlled in ECCN 0A501.a or .b that are shipped from or manufactured in a Country Group D:5 country, or that are shipped from or manufactured in Russia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan (except for any firearm model designation (if assigned) controlled by 0A501 that is specified under annex A in supplement no. 4 to this part); or shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches controlled in ECCN 0A502 that are shipped from or manufactured in a Country Group D:5 country, or from Russia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan, because of the exclusions in License Exception TMP under paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
