
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.9 Temporary imports, exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) (TMP).
####### Tools of trade.

(1)Exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) of commodities and software as tools of trade for use by the exporter or employees of the exporter may be made only to destinations other than Country Group E:1. The tools of trade must remain under the "effective control" of the exporter or the exporter's employee. Eligible items are usual and reasonable kinds and quantities of tools of trade for use in a lawful enterprise or undertaking of the exporter. Tools of trade include, but are not limited to, commodities and software as is necessary to commission or service items, provided that the commodity or software is appropriate for this purpose and that all items to be commissioned or serviced are of foreign origin, or if subject to the EAR, have been lawfully exported, reexported, or transferred. Tools of trade may accompany the individual departing from the United States or may be shipped unaccompanied within one month before the individual's departure from the United States, or at any time after departure. Software used as a tool of trade must be protected against unauthorized access. Examples of security precautions to help prevent unauthorized access include the following:

(i) Use of secure connections, such as Virtual Private Network connections, when accessing IT networks for activities that involve the transmission and use of the software authorized under this license exception;

(ii) Use of password systems on electronic devices that store the software authorized under this license exception; and

(iii) Use of personal firewalls on electronic devices that store the software authorized under this license exception.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) "Technology," regardless of media or format, may be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) by or to a U.S. person, or a foreign person employee of a U.S. person traveling or on temporary assignment abroad, subject to the following restrictions:

(i) Foreign persons may only export, reexport, transfer (in country) or receive such "technology" as they are authorized to receive through a license, license exception other than TMP or because no license is required.

(ii) "Technology" exported, reexported, or transferred under this authorization may only be possessed or used by a U.S. person or authorized foreign person. Sufficient security precautions must be taken to prevent the unauthorized release of the "technology." Such security precautions may include encryption of the "technology," the use of secure network connections, such as Virtual Private Networks, the use of passwords or other access restrictions on the electronic device or media on which the "technology" is stored, and the use of firewalls and other network security measures to prevent unauthorized access.
