
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.9 Temporary imports, exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) (TMP).
####### Exhibition and demonstration.

(5)This paragraph (a)(5) authorizes exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of commodities and software for exhibition or demonstration in all destinations except Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part) provided that the exporter maintains ownership of the commodities and software while they are abroad and provided that the exporter, an employee of the exporter, or the exporter's designated sales representative retains "effective control" over the commodities and software while they are abroad. The commodities and software may not be used when abroad for more than the minimum extent required for effective demonstration. The commodities and software may not be exhibited or demonstrated at any one site for longer than 120 days after installation and debugging, unless authorized by BIS. However, before or after an exhibition or demonstration, pending movement to another site, return to the United States or the foreign reexporter, or BIS approval for other disposition, the commodities and software may be placed in a bonded warehouse or a storage facility provided that the exporter retains "effective control" over their disposition. The export documentation for this type of transaction must show the exporter as ultimate consignee, in care of the person who will have control over the commodities and software abroad.
