
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.10 License Exception Servicing and replacement of parts and equipment (RPL).
####### One-for-one replacement of parts, components, accessories, or attachments.,replacement parts, components, accessories, or attachments,subassembly'

(2)(i) The termsas used in this section mean parts, components, accessories, or attachments needed for the immediate repair of equipment or other end items, including replacement of defective or worn parts or components. (These terms include 'subassemblies,' but do not include test instruments or operating supplies. The term 'means a number of parts or components assembled to perform a specific function or functions within a commodity. One example would be printed circuit boards with components mounted thereon. This definition does not include major subsystems such as those composed of a number of 'subassemblies.') Items that improve or change the basic design characteristics, e.g., as to accuracy, capability, performance or productivity, of the equipment or other end item upon which they are installed, are not deemed to be replacement parts, components, accessories, or attachments. For kits consisting of replacement parts or components, consult ยง 740.9(a)(4) of this part.

(ii) Parts, components, accessories, and attachments may be exported only to replace, on a one-for-one basis, parts, components, accessories, or attachments, respectively, contained in commodities that were: Lawfully exported from the United States; lawfully reexported; or made in a foreign country incorporating authorized parts, components, accessories, or attachments "subject to the EAR" (see ยง 734.2(a) of the EAR). "600 series" parts, components, accessories and attachments may be exported only to replace, on a one-for-one basis, parts, components, accessories, or attachments that were: lawfully exported from the United States, or lawfully reexported. The conditions of the original U.S. authorization must not have been violated. Accordingly, the export of replacement parts, components, accessories, and attachments may be made only by the party who originally exported or reexported the commodity to be repaired, or by a party that has confirmed the existence of appropriate authority for the original transaction.

(iii) The parts, components, accessories, or attachments to be replaced must either be destroyed abroad or returned promptly to the person who supplied the replacements, or to a foreign firm that is under the effective control of that person.
