
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### § 740.10 License Exception Servicing and replacement of parts and equipment (RPL).
####### Exclusions to License Exception RPL.

(3)(i) No replacement parts, components, accessories, or attachments may be exported to repair a commodity exported under a license or other authorization if that license or other authorization included a condition that any subsequent replacements may be exported only under a license.

(ii) No parts, components, accessories, or attachments may be exported to be held abroad as spares for future use. Replacements may be exported to replace spares that were authorized to accompany the export of equipment or other end items as those spares are used in the repair of the equipment or other end item. This allows maintenance of the stock of spares at a consistent level as the parts, components, accessories, or attachments are used.

(iii) No parts, components, accessories, or attachments may be exported to any destination, except the countries listed in supplement no. 3 to part 744 of the EAR (Countries Not Subject to Certain Nuclear End Use Restrictions in § 744.2(a)), if the item is to be incorporated into or used in nuclear weapons, nuclear explosive devices, nuclear testing related to activities described in § 744.2(a) of the EAR, the chemical processing of irradiated special nuclear or source material, the production of heavy water, the separation of isotopes of source and special nuclear materials, or the fabrication of nuclear reactor fuel containing plutonium, as described in § 744.2(a) of the EAR.

(iv) No replacement parts, components, accessories, or attachments may be exported to countries in Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part) (countries designated by the Secretary of State as supporting acts of international terrorism) if the commodity to be repaired is an "aircraft" (as defined in § 772.1 of the EAR) or is controlled for national security (NS) reasons.

(v) No replacement parts, components, accessories, or attachments may be exported to countries in Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part) if the commodity to be repaired is explosives detection equipment classified under ECCN 2A983 or related software classified under ECCN 2D983.

(vi) No replacement parts, components, accessories, or attachments may be exported to countries in Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part) if the commodity to be repaired is concealed object detection equipment classified under ECCN 2A984 or related software classified under ECCN 2D984.
