
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.10 License Exception Servicing and replacement of parts and equipment (RPL).
####### Terrorist supporting countries.

(iv)No repaired commodity or software may be exported or reexported to countries in Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part).

(3) Replacements for defective or unacceptable equipment "subject to the EAR."

(i) Subject to the following conditions, commodities or software may be exported or reexported to replace defective or otherwise unusable (e.g., erroneously supplied) items.

(A) The commodity or software is "subject to the EAR" (see ยง 734.2(a) of the EAR).

(B) The commodity or software to be replaced must have been previously exported or reexported in its present form under a license or authorization granted by BIS or an authorization, e.g., a license or exemption, issued under the authority of the Arms Export Control Act.

(C) No commodity or software may be exported or reexported to replace equipment that is worn out from normal use, nor may any commodity or software be exported to be held in stock abroad as spare equipment for future use.

(D) The replacement item may not improve the basic characteristic, e.g., as to accuracy, capability, performance, or productivity, of the equipment as originally authorized, e.g., under a license, license exception or an exemption, for export or reexport.

(E) No shipment may be made to countries in Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part), or to any other destination to replace defective or otherwise unusable equipment owned or controlled by, or leased or chartered to, a national of any of those countries.

(F) Commodities or "software" "subject to the EAR" and classified in 9x515 or "600 Series" ECCNs may not be exported or reexported to a destination identified in Country Group D:5 (see supplement no. 1 to this part).

(ii) In addition to the general conditions in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the following conditions apply to exports or reexports of replacements for defective or unacceptable commodities or software "subject to the EAR" (see ยง 734.2(a) of the EAR) to a destination in Country Group B or Country Group D:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part):

(A) By making such an export or reexport, the exporter represents that all the requirements of this paragraph (b) have been met and undertakes to destroy or return the replaced parts as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.

(B) The defective or otherwise unusable equipment must be replaced free of charge, except for transportation and labor charges. If exporting to the countries listed in Country Group D:1 (except the PRC), the exporter shall replace the commodity or software within the warranty period or within 12 months of its shipment to the ultimate consignee in the country of destination, whichever is shorter.

(C) The commodity or software to be replaced must either be destroyed abroad or returned to the United States, or to a foreign firm in Country Group B that is under the effective control of the exporter, or to the foreign firm that is providing the replacement part or equipment. The destruction or return must be effected before, or promptly after, the replacement item is exported from the United States.

(D) A party reexporting replacements for defective or unacceptable U.S.-origin equipment must ensure that the commodities or software being replaced were shipped to their present location in accordance with U.S. law and continue to be legally used. See ยง 764.7 of the EAR for exports or reexports to the installed base in Libya.

(4) This paragraph (b)(4) authorizes the export of firearms controlled by ECCN 0A501.a or .b, or shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches controlled in ECCN 0A502 that are temporarily in the United States for servicing or replacement for a period not exceeding one year or the time it takes to service or replace the commodity, whichever is shorter, provided that the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section are met and:

(i) The firearms were not shipped from or manufactured in Russia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan, except for any firearm model controlled by 0A501 that is specified under Annex A in Supplement No. 4 to this part;

(ii) When the firearms entered the U.S. as a temporary import, the temporary importer or its agent:

(A) Provided the following statement to U.S. Customs and Border Protection: "This shipment will be exported in accordance with and under the authority of License Exception RPL (15 CFR 740.10(b))";

(B) Provided to U.S. Customs and Border Protection an invoice or other appropriate import-related documentation (or electronic equivalents) that includes a complete list and description of the firearms being temporarily imported, including their model, make, caliber, serial numbers, quantity, and U.S. dollar value; and

(C) Provided (if temporarily imported for servicing or replacement) to U.S. Customs and Border Protection the name, address and contact information (telephone number and/or email) of the organization or individual in the U.S. that will be receiving the item for servicing or replacement; and

(iii) In addition to the export clearance requirements of part 758 of the EAR, the exporter or its agent must provide the import documentation related to paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section to U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the time of export.
