
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.11 Governments, international organizations, international inspections under the Chemical Weapons Convention, and the International Space Station (GOV).
####### International safeguards,Scope.

(a)-(1)The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is an international organization that establishes and administers safeguards, including Additional Protocols, designed to ensure that special nuclear materials and other related nuclear facilities, equipment, and material are not diverted from peaceful purposes to non-peaceful purposes. European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) is an international organization of European countries with headquarters in Luxembourg. Euratom establishes and administers safeguards designed to ensure that special nuclear materials and other related nuclear facilities, equipment, and material are not diverted from peaceful purposes to non-peaceful purposes. This paragraph (a) authorizes exports and reexports of commodities or software to the IAEA and Euratom, and reexports by IAEA and Euratom for official international safeguard use, as follows:

(i) Commodities or software consigned to the IAEA at its headquarters in Vienna, Austria or its field offices in Toronto, Ontario, Canada or in Tokyo, Japan for official international safeguards use.

(ii) Commodities or software consigned to the Euratom Safeguards Directorate in Luxembourg, Luxembourg for official international safeguards use.

(iii) Commodities or software consigned to IAEA or Euratom may be reexported to any country for IAEA or Euratom international safeguards use provided that IAEA or Euratom maintains control of or otherwise safeguards the commodities or software and returns the commodities or software to the locations described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section when they become obsolete, are no longer required, or are replaced.

(iv) Commodity or software shipments may be made by persons under direct contract with IAEA or Euratom, or by Department of Energy National Laboratories as directed by the Department of State or the Department of Energy.

(v) The monitoring functions of IAEA and Euratom are not subject to the restrictions on prohibited safeguarded nuclear activities described in ยง 744.2(a)(3) of the EAR.

(vi) When commodities or software originally consigned to IAEA or Euratom are no longer in IAEA or Euratom official safeguards use, such commodities may be disposed of by destruction or by reexport or transfer in accordance with the EAR.
