
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.11 Governments, international organizations, international inspections under the Chemical Weapons Convention, and the International Space Station (GOV).
####### Restrictions.,except

(2)(i) Items on the Sensitive List (see supplement no. 6 to part 774 of the EAR) may not be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under this paragraph (a),to the countries listed in Country Group A:5 (See supplement no.1 to part 740 of the EAR).

(ii) Items on the Very Sensitive List (see supplement no. 7 to part 774 of the EAR) may not be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under this paragraph (a).

(iii) Encryption items controlled for EI reasons under ECCNs 5A002, 5A004, 5D002, or 5E002 may not be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) under this paragraph (a). See ยง 740.17 of the EAR (License Exception ENC) for possible alternative license exception authorization.

(iv) Without prior authorization from the Bureau of Industry and Security, nationals of countries in Country Group E:1(see supplement no. 1 to this part) may not physically or computationally access computers that have been enhanced by "electronic assemblies," which have been exported or reexported under License Exception GOV and have been used to enhance such computers by aggregation of processors so that the APP of the aggregation exceeds the APP parameter set forth in ECCN 4A003.b.
