
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.11 Governments, international organizations, international inspections under the Chemical Weapons Convention, and the International Space Station (GOV).
####### Recordkeeping requirements.

(8)Exporters and reexporters must maintain records regarding exports or reexports made using this paragraph (e) of this section as well as any other applicable recordkeeping requirements under part 762 of the EAR.

(i) Exporters and reexporters must retain a record of the initial written notification they received requesting these commodities be supplied on short notice for a supply mission to the ISS, including the date the exporter or reexporter received complete documentation (i.e., the day on which the 45-day clock begins).

(ii) Exporters and reexporters must maintain records of the date of any exports or reexports made using this paragraph (e) and the date on which the commodities were launched into space for delivery to the ISS. If the commodities are not delivered to the ISS because of a failed launch whereby the item is destroyed prior to being delivered to the ISS, this must be noted for recordkeeping purposes.

(iii) The return or destruction of defective or worn out parts or components is not required. However, if defective or worn out parts or components originally exported or reexported pursuant to this paragraph (e) are returned from the ISS, then those parts and components may be either: returned to the original country of export or reexport; destroyed; or reexported or transferred (in-country) to a destination that has been designated by NASA for conducting a review and analysis of the defective or worn part or component. Documentation for this activity must be kept for recordkeeping purposes. No commodities that are subject to the EAR may be returned, under the provisions of this paragraph, to a country listed in Country Group E:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part) or to any person if that person is subject to an end-user or end-use control described in part 744 of the EAR. For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, a 'defective or worn out' part or component is a part or component that no longer performs its intended function.
