
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.14 Baggage (BAG).
####### Special provisions for firearms and ammunition.

(e)(1) A United States citizen or a permanent resident alien leaving the United States may export or reexport shotguns with a barrel length of 18 inches or over and shotgun shells under this License Exception, subject to the following limitations:

(i) Not more than three shotguns may be taken on any one trip.

(ii) The shotguns and shotgun shells must be with the person's baggage but they may not be mailed.

(iii) The shotguns and shotgun shells must be for the person's exclusive use for legitimate hunting or lawful sporting purposes, scientific purposes, or personal protection, and not for resale or other transfer of ownership or control. Accordingly, except as provided in (e)(2) of this section, shotguns may not be exported permanently under this License Exception. All shotguns and unused shotgun shells must be returned to the United States. Note that since certain countries may require an Import Certificate or a U.S. export license before allowing the import of a shotgun, you should determine the import requirements of your country of destination in advance.

(2) A nonresident alien leaving the United States may export or reexport under this License Exception only such shotguns and shotgun shells as he or she brought into the United States under the provisions of the Department of Justice Regulations (27 CFR 478.115(d)).

(3) A United States citizen or a permanent resident alien leaving the United States may export under this License Exception firearms, "parts," "components," "accessories," or "attachments" controlled under ECCN 0A501 and ammunition controlled under ECCN 0A505.a, subject to the following limitations:

(i) Not more than three firearms and 1,000 rounds of ammunition may be taken on any one trip.

(ii) "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" exported pursuant to this paragraph (e)(3) must be of a kind and limited to quantities that are reasonable for the activities described in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section or that are necessary for routine maintenance of the firearms being exported.

(iii) The commodities must be with the person's baggage.

(iv) The commodities must be for the person's exclusive use and not for resale or other transfer of ownership or control. Accordingly, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, firearms, "parts," "components," "accessories," "attachments," and ammunition, may not be exported permanently under this License Exception. All firearms, "parts," "components," "accessories," or "attachments" controlled under ECCN 0A501 and all unused ammunition controlled under ECCN 0A505.a exported under this License Exception must be returned to the United States.

(v) Travelers leaving the United States temporarily are required to declare the firearms, "parts," "components," "accessories," "attachments," and ammunition being exported under this License Exception to a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer prior to departure from the United States and present such items to the CBP officer for inspection, confirming that the authority for the export is License Exception BAG and that the exporter is compliant with its terms.

(4) A nonimmigrant alien leaving the United States may export or reexport under this License Exception only such firearms controlled under ECCN 0A501 and ammunition controlled under ECCN 0A505 as he or she brought into the United States under the relevant provisions of Department of Justice regulations at 27 CFR part 478.
