
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.16 Additional permissive reexports (APR).
####### Reexports to and among specified countries.

(b)(1) Eligible commodities may be reexported to and among destinations in Country Group A:1 for use or consumption within a destination in Country Group A:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740), or for reexport from such country in accordance with other provisions of the EAR.

(2) Commodities not eligible for reexport under paragraph (b)(1) of this section are:

(i) Commodities controlled for nuclear nonproliferation or missile technology reasons;

(ii) Commodities in 3A001.b.2 or b.3 (except those that are being reexported for use in civil telecommunications applications);

(iii) "Military commodities" described in ECCN 0A919;

(iv) Commodities described in ECCN 0A504 that incorporate an image intensifier tube;

(v) Commodities described in ECCN 6A002; or

(vi) Commodities classified under a 0x5zz ECCN.

(3) Cameras described in ECCNs 6A003 may be exported or reexported to and among countries in Country Group A:1 (see supplement no. 1 to this part) if:

(i) Such cameras are fully packaged for use as consumer ready civil products; or

(ii) Such cameras with not more than 111,000 elements are to be embedded in civil products.

(c) Reexports to a destination to which direct shipment from the United States is authorized under an unused outstanding license may be made under the terms of that license. Such reexports shall be recorded in the same manner as exports are recorded, regardless of whether the license is partially or wholly used for reexport purposes. (See part 762 of the EAR for recordkeeping requirements.)

(d) Reexports of any item from Canada that, at the time of reexport, may be exported directly from the United States to the new country of destination under any License Exception.

(e) Reexports (return) to the United States of any item. If the reexporting party requests written authorization because the government of the country from which the reexport will take place requires formal U.S. Government approval, such authorization will generally be given.

(f) Reexports from a foreign destination to Canada of any item if the item could be exported to Canada without a license.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) Shipments of foreign-made products that incorporate U.S.-origin components may be accompanied by U.S.-origin controlled spare parts, provided that they do not exceed 10 percent of the value of the foreign-made product, subject to the restrictions in ยง 734.4 of the EAR.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Reexports of items controlled by NP Column 1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR) to, among, and from countries described in Country Group A:4 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740), except:

(1) Reexports from countries that are not identified in Country Group A:1 of items that are controlled for NS reasons to destinations in Country Group D:1; and

(2) Reexports to destinations in Country Group E:2 and Country Group D:2.
