
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.17 Encryption commodities, software, and technology (ENC).

License Exception ENC authorizes export, reexport, and transfer (in-country) of systems, equipment, commodities, and components therefor that are classified under ECCN 5A002, 5B002, equivalent or related software and technology therefor classified under 5D002 or 5E002, and "cryptanalytic items" and digital forensics items (investigative tools) classified under ECCN 5A004, 5D002 or 5E002. This License Exception ENC does not authorize export or reexport to, transfer (in-country) in, or provision of any service in any country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, or release of source code or technology to any national of a country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2. Reexports and transfers (in-country) under License Exception ENC are subject to the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. Paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section set forth information about classifications required by this section. Items described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3)(i), (ii), or (iv) of this section that meet the criteria set forth in Note 3 to Category 5-Part 2 of the Commerce Control List (the "mass market" note) are classified under ECCN 5A992.c or 5D992.c following self-classification or classification by BIS and are no longer subject to "EI" and "NS" controls. Paragraph (e) sets forth reporting required by this section. For items exported under paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3)(i), (ii), or (iv) of this section and therefore excluded from paragraph (e) reporting requirements, exporters are reminded of the recordkeeping requirements in part 762 of the EAR and that they may be required to make such records available upon request. All classification requests, and reports submitted to BIS pursuant to this section for encryption items will be reviewed by the ENC Encryption Request Coordinator, Ft. Meade, MD.
