
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.17 Encryption commodities, software, and technology (ENC).
####### Hold Without Action (HWA) for classification requests.

(C)BIS may hold your classification request without action if necessary to obtain additional information or for any other reason necessary to ensure an accurate classification. Time on such "hold without action" status shall not be counted towards fulfilling the thirty-day (30-day) processing period specified in this paragraph.

(iii) BIS may require you to supply additional relevant technical information about your encryption item(s) or information that pertains to their eligibility for License Exception ENC at any time, before or after the expiration of the thirty-day (30-day) processing period specified in this paragraph and in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. If you do not supply such information within 14 days after receiving a request for it from BIS, BIS may return your classification request(s) without action or otherwise suspend or revoke your eligibility to use License Exception ENC for that item(s). At your request, BIS may grant you up to an additional 14 days to provide the requested information. Any request for such an additional number of days must be made prior to the date by which the information was otherwise due to be provided to BIS, and may be approved if BIS concludes that additional time is necessary.
