
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.18 Agricultural commodities (AGR).
####### Review by other departments or agencies.

(4)The Departments of Defense, State, and other agencies, as appropriate, may review the AGR notification. BIS must receive department or agency objections within nine business days of the referral. Unlike the provisions described in ยง 750.4(b) of the EAR, there are no provisions for stopping the processing time of the AGR notification. If, within 11 business days after the date of registration, any reviewing agency provides a written objection that the recipient may promote international terrorism or the transaction raises nonproliferation concerns, you may not use License Exception AGR. In such cases, BIS will notify you that a license is required for the export or reexport. BIS will then process the AGR notification as a license application in accordance with the provisions described in ยง 750.4 of the EAR, and the licensing policies set forth in the EAR. At this time, BIS may request additional information. When BIS confirms that no agency has raised an objection within eleven business days (as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section), you may proceed with the transaction provided that you satisfy all other requirements of License Exception AGR, including the requirement to have a written contract prior to any shipment (unless a donation or commercial sample). (Note that the fact that you have been advised that no agency has objected to the transaction does not exempt you from other licensing requirements under the EAR, such as those based on knowledge of a prohibited end-use or end-user as referenced in general prohibition five (part 736 of the EAR) and set forth in part 744 of the EAR.)
