
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.20 License Exception Strategic Trade Authorization (STA).
####### i.e.,

(v) License Exception STA may not be used for any item controlled by ECCN 1C351.a, .b, .c, .d.14, .d.15 or .e, ECCNs 1C353, 1C354, 1E001 (for technology, as specified in ECCN 1E001, for items controlled by ECCN 1C351.a, .b, .c, .d.14, .d.15 or .e or ECCNs 1C353 or 1C354) or ECCN 1E351.

(vi) Toxins controlled by ECCN 1C351.d.1 through 1C351.d.13 and 1C351.d.16 through 1C351.d.21 are authorized under License Exception STA to destinations indicated in Country Group A:5 (See supplement no. 1 to this part 740), subject to the following limits. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(vi), all such toxins that are sent from one exporter, reexporter or transferor to a single end-user, on the same day, constitute one shipment.

(A) The maximum amount of any one toxin in any one shipment may not exceed 100 milligrams.

(B) No exporter, reexporter or transferor may send more than six shipments of any one toxin to any one end user in a single calendar year.

(vii) Commerce Control List Category 7 limitation on use of License Exception STA. License Exception STA may not be used for 7E004 "technology," except for "technology" controlled under 7E004.a.7.

(viii) Commerce Control List Category 9 limitations on use of License Exception STA.

(A) License Exception STA may not be used for 9B001 when destined to a country in Country Group A:6.

(B) License Exception STA may not be used for 9D001 or 9D002 "software" that is specially designed or modified for the "development" or "production" of:
