
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.20 License Exception Strategic Trade Authorization (STA).
####### Conditions,Requirement to furnish Export Control Classification Number.

(d)-(1)(i) The exporter must furnish to the consignee the ECCN of each item to be exported pursuant to this section. Once furnished to a particular consignee, the ECCN that applies to any item need not be refurnished to that consignee at the time the same exporter makes an additional export of the same item, if the information remains accurate at the time of the additional export.

(ii) A reexporter or transferor must furnish to subsequent consignees the ECCN, provided by the exporter or a prior reexporter or transferor, of each item to be reexported or transferred (in-country) pursuant to this section. Once furnished to a particular consignee, the ECCN that applies to any item need not be refurnished to that consignee at the time the same reexporter or transferor makes an additional reexport or transfer (in-country) of the same item, if the information remains accurate at the time of the additional reexport or transfer (in-country).

(iii) For purposes of determining reexport or transfer eligibility under this section, the consignee may rely on the ECCN provided to it by the party required to furnish the ECCN under paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section unless the consignee knows that the ECCN is incorrect or has changed. The word "knows" has the same meaning as the term "knowledge" in ยง 772.1 of the EAR.
