
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.20 License Exception Strategic Trade Authorization (STA).
####### Requirements for releases of software source code or technology within a single country.

(4)Instead of the requirement of paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section, the party releasing software source code or technology to a national of a country listed in Country Group A:5 or A:6 (See supplement no. 1 to this part) must notify the recipient of the software source code or technology of the restrictions upon further release of the software source code or technology. The notification must either expressly inform the recipient that the EAR impose limits on further disclosure or must be in the form of an agreement in which the recipient agrees to limits on further disclosure. Any such agreement must impose limits that are equivalent to or more restrictive than all limits on further disclosure that are imposed by the EAR. The notification must be in writing and a copy of it must be retained by the party making the release and the recipient of the release. The notification may be in a separate document or included in a document such as a contract or a nondisclosure agreement. If the document has an expiration date, it must provide that the restrictions on disclosure do not expire.
