
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 740 - LICENSE EXCEPTIONS
###### ยง 740.21 Support for the Cuban People (SCP).
####### temporary

(2) Theexport or reexport to Cuba of items by travelers to Cuba for the travelers' use in scientific, archeological, cultural, ecological, educational, historic preservation, or sporting activities, or professional meetings or research. The following requirements apply:

(i) The research must be directly related to traveler's profession, professional background or area of expertise, including area of graduate-level full-time study.

(ii) The activities or research may not relate to the "development," "production," "use," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul or refurbishing of any item enumerated or otherwise described on the United States Munitions List (22 CFR part 121) or of any item enumerated or otherwise described on the Commerce Control List (supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR) unless the only reason for control that applies to that item as set forth in the ECCN that controls that item is anti-terrorism.

(iii) The items must remain under the traveler's "effective control" while in Cuba.

(iv) Items authorized for temporary export by this paragraph must be returned to the United States within two years of the date of export from the United States unless:

(A) The items are consumed in Cuba; or

(B) The exporter applies for and receives a license from BIS, prior to the expiration of the two year period, authorizing the items to remain in Cuba for longer than two years.

(v) Paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not authorize exports if, at the time of the export, the exporter has "knowledge" that the item exported will remain in Cuba for more than two years.

(3) The export or reexport to Cuba of items to human rights organizations, individuals or non-governmental organizations that promote independent activity intended to strengthen civil society.
