
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.2 Proliferation of chemical and biological weapons.
####### 2

() Test kits that contain no more than 300 grams of any chemical controlled by ECCN 1C350.d (CB-controlled chemicals not also identified as Schedule 1, 2, or 3 chemicals under the CWC). Such test kits are controlled by ECCN 1C995 for AT reasons.

(ii) Software (ECCN 1D390) for process control that is specifically configured to control or initiate production of the chemical precursors controlled by ECCN 1C350.

(iii) Technology (ECCN 1E001) for the development or production of chemical detection systems and dedicated detectors therefore, controlled by ECCN 1A004.c, that also have the technical characteristics described in ECCN 2B351.a.

(iv) Technology (ECCNs 1E001 and 1E350) involving the following for facilities designed or intended to produce chemicals described in 1C350:

(A) Overall plant design;

(B) Design, specification, or procurement of equipment;

(C) Supervision of construction, installation, or operation of complete plant or components thereof;

(D) Training of personnel; or

(E) Consultation on specific problems involving such facilities.

(v) Technology (ECCNs 1E001 and 1E351) for the production and/or disposal of chemical precursors described in ECCN 1C350;

(vi) Equipment and materials identified in ECCN 2B350 or 2B351 on the CCL, chemical detection systems controlled by 1A004.c for detecting chemical warfare agents and having the characteristics of toxic gas monitoring systems described in 2B351.a, and valves controlled by ECCN 2A226 having the characteristics of those described in 2B350.g, which can be used in the production of chemical weapons precursors or chemical warfare agents.

(vii) Equipment and materials identified in ECCN 2B352, which can be used in the production of biological agents.

(viii) Software identified in ECCN 2D351 or 2D352, as follows:

(A) Dedicated software identified in ECCN 2D351 for the "use" of toxic gas monitoring systems and their dedicated detecting components controlled by ECCN 2B351;

(B) Software designed for nucleic acid assemblers and synthesizers controlled by 2B352.j that is capable of designing and building functional genetic elements from digital sequence data.

(ix) Technology identified in ECCN 2E001 for the "development" of software controlled by ECCN 2D351 or 2D352.

(x) Technology identified in ECCN 2E001, 2E002, or 2E301 for:

(A) The development, production, or use of items controlled by ECCN 2B350, 2B351, or 2B352; or

(B) The development or production of valves controlled by ECCN 2A226 having the characteristics of those described in ECCN 2B350.g.

(xi) Technology identified in ECCN 2E201 or 2E290 for the use of valves controlled by ECCN 2A226 having the characteristics of those described in 2B350.g.

(3) If CB Column 3 of the Country Chart (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR) is indicated in the appropriate ECCN, a license is required to Country Group D:3 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) for medical products identified in ECCN 1C991.c.

(4) A license is required, to States not Party to the CWC (destinations not listed in supplement no. 2 to part 745 of the EAR), for mixtures controlled by 1C395.a and test kits controlled by 1C395.b.
