
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.4 National security.
####### Licensing policy.

(b)(1)(i) The policy for national security controlled items exported or reexported to any country except a country in Country Group D:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) is to approve applications unless there is a significant risk that the items will be diverted to a country in Country Group D:1.

(ii) When destined to a country listed in Country Group D:5 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, however, items classified under 9x515 or "600 series" ECCNs will be reviewed consistent with United States arms embargo policies in ยง 126.1 of the ITAR.

(iii) When destined to the People's Republic of China or a country listed in Country Group E:1 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, items classified under any 9x515 ECCN will be subject to a policy of denial.

(2) Except for those countries described in paragraphs (b)(5) through (b)(7) of this section, the general policy for exports and reexports of items to Country Group D:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) is to approve applications when BIS determines, on a case-by-case basis, that the items are for civilian use or would otherwise not make a significant contribution to the military potential of the country of destination that would prove detrimental to the national security of the United States.

(3) To permit such policy judgments to be made, each application is reviewed in the light of prevailing policies with full consideration of all aspects of the proposed transaction. The review generally includes:

(i) An analysis of the kinds and quantities of items to be shipped;

(ii) Their military or civilian uses;

(iii) The unrestricted availability abroad of the same or comparable items;

(iv) The country of destination;

(v) The ultimate end-users in the country of destination; and

(vi) The intended end-use.

(4) Although each proposed transaction is considered individually, items described in Advisory Notes on the Commerce Control List are more likely to be approved than others.

(5) In recognition of efforts made to adopt safeguard measures for exports and reexports, Kazakhstan and Mongolia are accorded enhanced favorable consideration licensing treatment.

(6) The general policy for Laos is to approve license applications when BIS determines, on a case-by-case basis, that the items are for an authorized use in Laos and are not likely to be diverted to another country or use contrary to the national security or foreign policy controls of the Unied States.

(7)(i) For Burma, Cambodia, the People's Republic of China (China), and Venezuela, all applications will be reviewed to determine the risk of diversion to a military end user or military end use. There is a general policy of approval for license applications to export, reexport, or transfer items determined to be for civil end users for civil end uses. There is a presumption of denial for license applications to export reexport, or transfer items that would make a material contribution to the "development," "production," maintenance, repair, or operation of weapons systems, subsystems, and assemblies, such as, but not limited to, those described in supplement no. 7 to this part, of Burma, Cambodia, China, or Venezuela.

(ii) The following factors are among those that will be considered in reviewing license applications described in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section:

(A) The appropriateness of the export, reexport, or transfer for the stated end use;

(B) The significance of the item for the weapon systems capabilities of the importing country;

(C) Whether any party is a 'military end user' as defined in ยง 744.21(g) of the EAR;

(D) The reliability of the parties to the transaction, including whether:
