
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.5 Missile technology.
####### Licensing policy.

(b)(1) Applications to export and reexport items identified in ECCNs on the CCL as MT Column No. 1 in the Country Chart column of the "License Requirements" section will be considered on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the export or reexport would make a material contribution to the proliferation of missiles. Applications for exports and reexports of such items contained in Category 7A or described by ECCN 9A101 on the CCL will be considered favorably if such exports or reexports are destined to a manned aircraft, satellite, land vehicle, or marine vessel, in quantities appropriate for replacement "parts" and "components" for such applications. When an export or reexport is deemed to make a material contribution to the proliferation of missiles, the license will be denied.

(2) The following factors are among those that will be considered in reviewing individual applications.

(i) The specific nature of the end-use;

(ii) The significance of the export and reexport in terms of its contribution to the design, development, production, or use of missiles;

(iii) The capabilities and objectives of the missile and space programs of the recipient country;

(iv) The nonproliferation credentials of the importing country;

(v) The types of assurances or guarantees against design, development, production, or use of missiles that are given in a particular case; and

(vi) The existence of a preexisting contract.
