
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.6 Regional stability.
####### Special RS Column 1 license requirements applicable to certain thermal imaging cameras.

(2)(i) As indicated in the CCL and in RS Column 1 of the Commerce Country Chart, cameras described in 6A003 b.4.b require a license to all destinations other than Canada if such cameras have a frame rate greater than 60 Hz.

(ii) Except as noted in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, as indicated in the CCL and in RS Column 1 of the Commerce Country Chart, cameras described in 6A003 b.4.b require a license to all destinations other than Canada if such cameras incorporate a focal plane array with more than 111,000 elements and a frame rate of 60 Hz or less, or cameras described in 6A003 b.4.b that are being exported or reexported to be embedded in a civil product.

(iii) BIS may issue licenses for cameras subject to the license requirement of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section that are fully-packaged for use as consumer-ready civil products that, in addition to the specific transactions authorized by such license, authorize exports and reexports of such cameras without a license to any civil end-user to whom such exports or reexport are not otherwise prohibited by U.S. law in a destination in Country Group A:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR). The license requirements of this paragraph (a)(2) shall not apply to exports or reexports so authorized. In this paragraph, the term "civil end-user" means any entity that is not a national armed service (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard), national guard, national police, government intelligence organization or government reconnaissance organization, or any person or entity whose actions or functions are intended to support "military end-uses" as defined in ยง 744.17(d) of the EAR.

(iv) Except as noted in paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section, as indicated in the CCL and in RS Column 1 of the Commerce Country Chart, cameras described in 6A003 b.4.b require a license to all destinations other than Canada if such cameras incorporate a focal plane array with 111,000 elements or less and a frame rate of 60 Hz or less and are being exported or reexported to be embedded in a civil product.

(v) BIS may also issue licenses for the cameras described in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section that, in addition to the specific transactions authorized by such license, authorize exports and reexports to authorized companies described in the license for the purpose of embedding such cameras into a completed product that will be distributed only in countries in Country Group A:1 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR). The license requirements of this paragraph (a)(2) shall not apply to exports or reexports so authorized. In this paragraph, the term "authorized companies" means companies that have been previously licensed for export, are not the subject of relevant negative intelligence or open source information, have not been the subject of a Department of Commerce or Department of State enforcement action within the past two years, have demonstrable production capacity, and do not pose an unacceptable risk of diversion.
