
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.6 Regional stability.
####### Licensing policy,Licensing policy for RS Column 1 items.

(b)-(1)(i) Applications for exports and reexports of ECCN 0A501, 0A504, 0A505, 0B501, 0B505, 0D501, 0D505, 0E501, 0E504, and 0E505 items; 9x515 and "600 series" items will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the transaction is contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States, including the foreign policy interest of promoting the observance of human rights throughout the world. Other applications for exports and reexports described in paragraph (a)(1), (2), (6), or (8) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the export or reexport could contribute directly or indirectly to any country's military capabilities in a manner that would alter or destabilize a region's military balance contrary to the foreign policy interests of the United States. Applications for reexports of items described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be reviewed applying the policies for similar commodities that are subject to the ITAR. Applications for export or reexport of items classified under any 9x515 or "600 series" ECCN requiring a license in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) or (9) of this section will also be reviewed consistent with United States arms embargo policies in ยง 126.1 of the ITAR (22 CFR 126.1) if destined to a country set forth in Country Group D:5 in Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. Applications for export or reexport of "parts," "components," "accessories," "attachments," "software," or "technology" "specially designed" or otherwise required for the F-14 aircraft will generally be denied. When destined to China or a country listed in Country Group E:1 in Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, items classified under ECCN 0A501, 0A505, 0B501, 0B505, 0D501, 0D505, 0E501, 0E504, and 0E505 or any 9x515 ECCN will be subject to a policy of denial. In addition, applications for exports and reexports of ECCN 0A501, 0A505, 0B501, 0B505, 0D501, 0D505, 0E501, 0E504, and 0E505 items when there is reason to believe the transaction involves criminal organizations, rebel groups, street gangs, or other similar groups or individuals, that may be disruptive to regional stability, including within individual countries, will be subject to a policy of denial.

(ii) Applications for exports and reexports to a country listed in Country Group D:5 (in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) of technology controlled under 6E001 for the development of focal plane arrays, read-out integrated circuits (ROICs) or image intensifier tubes described in 6A002 or technology controlled under 6E002 for the production of focal plane arrays, read-out integrated circuits (ROICs) or image intensifier tubes described in 6A002 will be reviewed with a presumption of denial.
