
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.6 Regional stability.
####### Licensing policy for RS Column 2 items.

(2)(i) Except as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii), applications to export and reexport commodities described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section will generally be considered favorably on a case-by-case basis unless there is evidence that the export or reexport would contribute significantly to the destabilization of the region to which the equipment is destined.

(ii) Applications to export and reexport items controlled under ECCNs 2A984, 2D984 and 2E984 will be reviewed under a presumption of approval when exported or reexported to Austria, Cyprus, Finland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, Mexico, Singapore or Sweden, provided the items to be exported or reexported are being made to a government end-user or to a person designated by the government end-user pursuant to contract. License applications to export to a designated person must include a statement from the government end-user that the person is so designated. See supplement no. 2 to part 748, paragraph (k)(2).

(3) For terrorist-designated countries, the applicable licensing policies are found in parts 742 and 746 of the EAR.

(4) See ยง 746.3(b) of the EAR for the applicable licensing policies for items controlled for RS reasons to Iraq.
