
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.7 Crime control and detection.
####### License requirements.

(a)In support of U.S. foreign policy to promote the observance of human rights throughout the world, a license is required to export and reexport crime control and detection equipment, related technology and software as follows:

(1) Crime control and detection instruments and equipment and related "technology" and "software" identified in the appropriate ECCNs on the CCL under CC Column 1 in the Country Chart column of the "License Requirements" section. A license is required to countries listed in CC Column 1 (Supplement No. 1 to part 738 of the EAR). Items affected by this requirement are identified on the CCL under the following ECCNs: 0A502, 0A504, 0A505.b, 0A977, 0A978, 0A979, 0D977, 0E502, 0E505 ("technology" for "development" or for "production" of buckshot shotgun shells controlled under ECCN 0A505.b), 0E977, 1A984, 1A985, 3A980, 3A981, 3D980, 3E980, 4A003 (for fingerprint computers only), 4A980, 4D001 (for fingerprint computers only), 4D980, 4E001 (for fingerprint computers only), 4E980, 6A002 (for police-model infrared viewers only), 6E001 (for police-model infrared viewers only), 6E002 (for police-model infrared viewers only), and 9A980.

(2) Shotguns with a barrel length greater than or equal to 24 inches, identified in ECCN 0A502 on the CCL under CC Column 2 in the Country Chart column of the "License Requirements" section regardless of end user to countries listed in CC Column 2 (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR).

(3) Shotguns with barrel length greater than or equal to 24 inches, identified in ECCN 0A502 on the CCL under CC Column 3 in the Country Chart column of the "License Requirements" section only if for sale or resale to police or law enforcement entities in countries listed in CC Column 3 (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR).

(4) Certain crime control items require a license to all destinations, except Canada. These items are identified under ECCNs 0A982, 0A503, and 0E982. Controls for these items appear in each ECCN; a column specific to these controls does not appear in the Country Chart (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR).

(5) Items designed for the execution of human beings as identified in ECCN 0A981 require a license to all destinations including Canada.

(6) See ยง 742.11 of the EAR for further information on items controlled under ECCN 0A983, which require a license to all destinations, including Canada.
