
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.9 Anti-terrorism: Syria.
####### License requirements.

(a)(1) If AT Column 1 of the Country Chart (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR) is indicated in the appropriate ECCN, a license is required for export and reexport to Syria for anti-terrorism purposes.

(2) The Secretary of State has designated Syria as a country whose government has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.

(3) In support of U.S. foreign policy against terrorism, BIS maintains two types of anti-terrorism controls on the export and reexport to Syria of items described in supplement no. 2 to part 742.

(i) Items described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of supplement no. 2 to part 742, if destined to military, police, intelligence or other end-users in Syria, are controlled under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, as amended (EAA).

(ii) Items listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of supplement no. 2 to part 742 destined to other end-users in Syria, as well as items to all end-users listed in (c)(6) through (c)(8), (c)(10) through (c)(14), (c)(16) through (c)(19), and (c)(22) through (c)(44) of supplement no. 2 to part 742, are controlled to Syria under section 6(a) of the EAA.
