
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.15 Encryption items.
####### Licensing requirements and policy,Licensing requirements.

(a)-(1)A license is required to export or reexport encryption items ("EI") classified under ECCN 5A002, 5A004, 5D002.a, .c.1 or .d (for equipment and "software" in ECCNs 5A002 or 5A004, 5D002.c.1); or 5E002 for "technology" for the "development," "production," or "use" of commodities or "software" controlled for EI reasons in ECCNs 5A002, 5A004 or 5D002, and "technology" classified under 5E002.b to all destinations, except Canada. Refer to part 740 of the EAR, for license exceptions that apply to certain encryption items, and to ยง 772.1 of the EAR for definitions of encryption items and terms. Most encryption items may be exported under the provisions of License Exception ENC set forth in ยง 740.17 of the EAR. Following classification or self-classification, items that meet the criteria of Note 3 to Category 5-Part 2 of the Commerce Control List (the "mass market" note), are classified ECCN 5A992.c or 5D992.c and are no longer subject to this Section (see ยง 740.17 of the EAR). Before submitting a license application, please review License Exception ENC to determine whether this license exception is available for your item or transaction. For exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) of encryption items that are not eligible for a license exception, you must submit an application to obtain authorization under a license or an Encryption Licensing Arrangement.
