
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### ยง 742.19 Anti-terrorism: North Korea.
####### License requirements.

(a)(1) All items on the Commerce Control List (CCL) (i.e., with a designation other than EAR99) that are controlled for anti-terrorism reasons require a license for export or reexport to North Korea. This includes all items on the CCL containing AT column 1 or AT column 2 in the Country Chart column of the License requirements section of an ECCN; and ECCNs 0A505.c, 0A988, 0A999, 0B505.c, 0B999, 0D999, 1A999, 1B999, 1C995, 1C999, 1D999, 2A994, 2A999, 2B999, 2D994, 2E994, 3A999, and 6A999. See also part 746 of the EAR.

(2) The Secretary of State has designated North Korea as a country whose Government has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.

(3) In support of U.S. foreign policy on terrorism-supporting countries, BIS maintains two types of anti-terrorism controls on the export and reexport of items described in supplement 2 to part 742.

(i) Items described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of supplement so. 2 to part 742 are controlled under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, as amended (EAA), if destined to military, police, intelligence or other sensitive end-users.

(ii) Items described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of supplement no. 2 to part 742 destined to non-sensitive end-users, as well as items described in paragraph (c)(6) through (c)(45) to all end-users, are controlled to North Korea under section 6(a) of the EAA. License applications for items reviewed under section 6(a) controls will also be reviewed to determine the applicability of section 6(j) controls to the transaction. When it is determined that an export or reexport could make a significant contribution to the military potential of North Korea, including its military logistics capability, or could enhance North Korea's ability to support acts of international terrorism, the Secretaries of State and Commerce will notify the Congress 30 days prior to issuance of a license. (See supplement no. 2 to part 742 for more information on items controlled under sections 6(a) and 6(j) of the EAA and ยง 750.6 of the EAR for procedures for processing license applications for items controlled under EAA section 6(j).)
