
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 742 - Nonproliferation of Chemical and Biological Weapons

(1) The contract sanctity date for exports to Iran or Syria of dimethyl methylphosphonate, phosphorous oxychloride, thiodiglycol, dimethylamine hydrochloride, dimethylamine, ethylene chlorohydrin (2-chloroethanol), and potassium fluoride is April 28, 1986.

(2) The contract sanctity date for exports to Iran or Syria of dimethyl phosphite (dimethyl hydrogen phosphite), methyl phosphonyldichloride, 3-quinuclidinol, N,N-diisopropylamino-ethane-2-thiol, N,N-diisopropylaminoethyl-2-chloride, 3-hydroxy-1-methylpiperidine, trimethyl phosphite, phosphorous trichloride, and thionyl chloride is July 6, 1987.

(3) The contract sanctity date for exports to Iran or Syria of items in ECCNs 1C351, 1C353 and 1C354 is February 22, 1989.

(4) The contract sanctity date for exports to Iran of dimethyl methylphosphonate, phosphorus oxychloride, and thiodiglycol is February 22, 1989.

(5) The contract sanctity date for exports to Iran or Syria of potassium hydrogen fluoride, ammonium hydrogen fluoride, sodium fluoride, sodium bifluoride, phosphorus pentasulfide, sodium cyanide, triethanolamine, diisopropylamine, sodium sulfide, and N,N-diethylethanolamine is December 12, 1989.

(6) The contract sanctity date for exports to all destinations (except Iran or Syria) of phosphorus trichloride, trimethyl phosphite, and thionyl chloride is December 12, 1989. For exports to Iran or Syria, paragraph (2) of this supplement applies.

(7) The contract sanctity date for exports to all destinations (except Iran or Syria) of 2-chloroethanol and triethanolamine is January 15, 1991. For exports of 2-chloroethanol to Iran or Syria, paragraph (1) of this Supplement applies. For exports of triethanolamine to Iran or Syria, paragraph (5) of this Supplement applies.

(8) The contract sanctity date for exports to all destinations (except Iran or Syria) of chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350 is March 7, 1991, except for applications to export the following chemicals: 2-chloroethanol, dimethyl methylphosphonate, dimethyl phosphite (dimethyl hydrogen phosphite), phosphorus oxychloride, phosphorous trichloride, thiodiglycol, thionyl chloride triethanolamine, and trimethyl phosphite. (See also paragraphs (6) and (7) of this Supplement.) For exports to Iran or Syria, see paragraphs (1) through (6) of this Supplement.

(9) The contract sanctity date for exports and reexports of the following commodities and technical data is March 7, 1991:

(i) Equipment (for producing chemical weapon precursors and chemical warfare agents) described in ECCNs 2B350 and 2B351;

(ii) Equipment and materials (for producing biological agents) described in ECCNs 1C351, 1C353, 1C354, and 2B352; and

(iii) Technology (for the development, production, and use of equipment described in ECCNs 1C351, 1C353, 1C354, 2B350, 2B351, and 2B352) described in ECCNs 2E001, 2E002, and 2E301.

(10) The contract sanctity date for license applications subject to ยง 742.2(b)(3) of this part is March 7, 1991.

(11) The contract sanctity date for reexports of chemicals controlled under ECCN 1C350 is March 7, 1991, except that the contract sanctity date for reexports of these chemicals to Iran or Syria is December 12, 1989.

(12) The contract sanctity date for reexports of human pathogens, zoonoses, toxins, animal pathogens, genetically modified microorganisms and plant pathogens controlled by ECCNs 1C351, 1C353 and 1C354 is March 7, 1991.
