
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### Supplement No. 6 to Part 742 - Technical Questionnaire for Encryption and Other "Information Security" Items

(a) For all items:

(1) State the name(s) of each product being submitted for classification or other consideration (as a result of a request by BIS) and provide a brief non-technical description of the type of product (e.g., routers, disk drives, cell phones, and chips) being submitted, and provide brochures, data sheets, technical specifications or other information that describes the item(s).

(2) Indicate whether there have been any prior classifications of the product(s), if they are applicable to the current submission. For products with minor changes in encryption functionality, you must include a cover sheet with complete reference to the previous review (Commodity Classification Automated Tracking System (CCATS) number, Export Control Classification Number (ECCN), authorization paragraph) along with a clear description of the changes.

(3) Describe how encryption is used in the product and the categories of encrypted data (e.g., stored data, communications, management data, and internal data).

(4) For 'mass market' encryption products, describe specifically to whom and how the product is being marketed and state how this method of marketing and other relevant information (e.g., cost of product and volume of sales) are described by the Cryptography Note (Note 3 to Category 5, Part 2).

(5) Is any "encryption source code" being provided (shipped or bundled) as part of this offering? If yes, is this source code publicly available source code, unchanged from the code obtained from an open source Web site, or is it proprietary "encryption source code?"

(b) For classification requests and other submissions, provide the following information

(1) Description of all the symmetric and asymmetric encryption algorithms and key lengths and how the algorithms are used, including relevant parameters, inputs and settings. Specify which encryption modes are supported (e.g., cipher feedback mode or cipher block chaining mode).

(2) Describe how encryption keys are generated or managed by your product, including algorithms and modulus sizes supported.

(3) Describe whether the products incorporate or use "non-standard cryptography" defined as incorporating or using proprietary, unpublished cryptographic functionality, including encryption algorithms or protocols that have not been adopted or approved by a duly recognized international standards body. Provide a textual description and the source code of the algorithm.

(4) Describe the pre-processing methods (e.g., data compression or data interleaving) that are applied to the plaintext data prior to encryption.

(5) Describe the post-processing methods (e.g., packetization, encapsulation) that are applied to the cipher text data after encryption.
