
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### Supplement No. 6 to Part 742 - Technical Questionnaire for Encryption and Other "Information Security" Items
####### e.g.,,e.g.,

(6) State all communication protocols (X.25, Telnet, TCP, IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.16, SIP . . .) and cryptographic protocols and methods (SSL, TLS, SSH, IPSEC, IKE, SRTP, ECC, MD5, SHA, X.509, PKCS standards . . .), including application programming interfaces (APIs), that are supported and describe how they are used.

(7) State how the product is written to preclude user modification of the encryption algorithms, key management and key space.

(8) Describe the cryptographic functionality that is provided by third-party hardware or software encryption components (if any). Identify the manufacturers of the hardware or software components, including specific part numbers and version information as needed to describe the product. Describe whether the encryption software components (if any) are statically or dynamically linked.

(9) Identify the version(s) and type(s) of compilers, runtime interpreters or code assemblers used, as applicable.

(10) With respect to your company's encryption products, are any of the products (or its encryption components) manufactured outside the United States? If yes, provide manufacturing locations (city and country).
