
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 742 - CONTROL POLICY - CCL BASED CONTROLS
###### Supplement No. 8 to Part 742 - Self-Classification Report for Encryption Items
####### i.e.,

(3) The first line of the .csv file must consist of the following twelve entries (match the following) without alteration or variation: PRODUCT NAME, MODEL NUMBER, MANUFACTURER, ECCN, AUTHORIZATION TYPE, ITEM TYPE, SUBMITTER NAME, TELEPHONE NUMBER, E-MAIL ADDRESS, MAILING ADDRESS, NON-U.S. COMPONENTS, NON-U.S. MANUFACTURING LOCATIONS.

(4) Each subsequent line of the .csv file must correspond to a single encryption item (or a distinguished series of products) as described in paragraph (c) of this supplement.

(5) Each line must consist of six entries as described in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), and (a)(6) of this supplement. No entries may be left blank. Each entry must be separated by a comma (,). Certain additional instructions are as follows:

(i) Line entries (a)(1) ('PRODUCT NAME') and (a)(4) ('ECCN') must be completed with relevant information.

(ii) For entries (a)(2) ('MODEL NUMBER') and (a)(3) ('MANUFACTURER'), if these entries do not apply to your item or situation you may enter 'NONE' or 'N/A'.

(iii) For entries (a)(5) ('AUTHORIZATION TYPE'), if none of the provided choices apply to your situation, you may enter 'OTHER'.

(6) Because of .csv file format requirements, the only permitted use of a comma is as the necessary separator between line entries. You may not use a comma for any other reason in your encryption self-classification report.
