
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 743 - SPECIAL REPORTING AND NOTIFICATION
###### ยง 743.4 Conventional arms reporting.
####### Scope.,Wassenaar Arrangement's Basic Documents,www.wassenaar.org,www.un.org/disarmament/convarms/Register/

(a)This section outlines special reporting requirements for exports of certain items listed on the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List and the UN Register of Conventional Arms. Participating States of the Wassenaar Arrangement exchange information every six months on deliveries to non-participating states of conventional arms set forth in theunder Part II Guideline and Procedures, including the Initial Elements, Appendix 3: Specific Information Exchange on Arms Content by Category (at), derived from the categories of the UN Register of Conventional Arms (at). Similar, although not identical, information is also reported by the U.S. Government to the United Nations on an annual basis. The reported information should include the quantity and the name of the recipient state and, except in the category of missiles and missile launchers, details of model and type. Such reports must be submitted to BIS semi-annually in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section for items identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and annually for items identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and records of all exports subject to the reporting requirements of this section must be kept in accordance with part 762 of the EAR. This section does not require reports for reexports or transfers (in-country). This section does not require reports when the exporter uses the alternative submission method described under paragraph (h) of this section. The alternative submission method under paragraph (h) requires the exporter to submit the information required for conventional arms reporting in this section as part of the required EEI submission in AES, pursuant to ยง 758.1(b)(9) of the EAR. The Department of Commerce leaves standard method for submitting reports in place in case any additional items are moved from the USML to the CCL, that may require conventional arms reporting.
