
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.1 General provisions.
####### Introduction.

(a)(1)In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. This part contains prohibitions against exports, reexports, and selected transfers to certain end users and end uses as introduced under General Prohibitions Five (End use/End users) and Nine (Orders, Terms, and Conditions), unless authorized by BIS. Sections 744.2, 744.3, and 744.4 prohibit exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR to defined nuclear, missile, and chemical and biological weapons proliferation activities. Section 744.5 prohibits exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR to defined nuclear maritime end-uses. Consistent with General Prohibition Seven (Support of Proliferation Activities and certain Military-Intelligence End Uses and End Users ("U.S. person" activities)), ยง 744.6 prohibits specific activities by U.S. persons in support of certain nuclear, missile, chemical and biological weapons end uses, and whole plants for chemical weapons precursors, as well as certain military-intelligence end uses and military-intelligence end users. Section 744.7 prohibits exports and reexports of certain items for certain aircraft and vessels. Section 744.8 prohibits exports and reexports without authorization to certain parties who have been designated as proliferators of weapons of mass destruction or as supporters of such proliferators pursuant to Executive Order 13382. Section 744.9 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain cameras, systems, or related components. Section 744.10 prohibits exports and reexports of any item subject to the EAR to Russian entities, included in supplement no. 4 of this part. Section 744.11 imposes license requirements, to the extent specified in supplement no. 4 to this part on entities listed in supplement no. 4 to this part for activities contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States. Sections 744.12, 744.13, and 744.14 prohibit exports and reexports of any item subject to the EAR to persons designated as Specially Designated Global Terrorists, Specially Designated Terrorists, or Foreign Terrorist Organizations, respectively. Section 744.15 sets forth the conditions for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to persons listed on the Unverified List (UVL) in supplement no. 6 to this part, the criteria for revising the UVL, as well as procedures for requesting removal or modification of a listing on the UVL. Section 744.16 sets forth the license requirements, policies and procedures for the Entity List. Section 744.17 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of microprocessors and associated "software" and "technology" for military end uses and to military end users. Section 744.18 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers to persons designated in or pursuant to Executive Order 13315. Section 744.19 sets forth BIS's licensing policy for applications for exports or reexports when a party to the transaction is an entity that has been sanctioned pursuant to any of three specified statutes that require certain license applications to be denied. Section 744.20 requires a license, to the extent specified in supplement no. 4 to this part, for exports and reexports of items subject to the EAR destined to certain sanctioned entities listed in supplement no. 4 to this part. In addition, these sections include license review standards for export license applications submitted as required by these sections. It should also be noted that part 764 of the EAR prohibits exports, reexports and certain transfers of items subject to the EAR to denied parties. Section 744.21 imposes restrictions for exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) of items on the CCL for a military end use or military end user in Burma, the People's Republic of China (PRC or China), Russia, or Venezuela. Section 744.22 imposes restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) for a military-intelligence end use or military-intelligence end user in Burma, China, Russia, or Venezuela; or a country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR). Section 744.23 sets forth restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) for certain "supercomputer" and semiconductor manufacturing end use.

(2) If controls set forth under more than one section of part 744 apply to a person, the license requirements for such a person will be determined based on the requirements of all applicable sections of part 744, and license applications will be reviewed under all applicable licensing policies.
