
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.8 Restrictions on exports and reexports to persons designated pursuant to Executive Order 13382 - Blocking Property of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators and Their Supporters.
####### BIS authorization.

(2)(i) To avoid duplication, U.S. persons are not required to seek separate authorization from BIS for an export or reexport to a party listed in appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V with the bracketed suffix [NPWMD] of an item subject to the EAR. If OFAC authorizes an export from the United States or an export or reexport by a U.S. person to a party listed in appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V with the bracketed suffix [NPWMD], such authorization constitutes authorization for purposes of the EAR as well.

(ii) U.S. persons must seek authorization from BIS for the export or reexport to a party listed in appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V with the bracketed suffix [NPWMD] of any item subject to the EAR that is not subject to OFAC's regulatory authority pursuant to Executive Order 13382.

(iii) Non-U.S. persons must seek authorization from BIS for any export from abroad or reexport to a party listed in appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V with the bracketed suffix [NPWMD] of any item subject to the EAR.

(iv) Any export or reexport to a party listed in appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V with the bracketed suffix [NPWMD] of any item subject to the EAR and not authorized by OFAC is a violation of the EAR.

(v) Any export or reexport by a U.S. person to a party listed in appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V with the bracketed suffix [NPWMD] of any item subject to the EAR that is not subject to regulation by OFAC and not authorized by BIS is a violation of the EAR. Any export from abroad or reexport by a non-U.S. person to a party listed in Appendix A to 31 CFR Chapter V with the bracketed suffix [NPWMD] of any item subject to the EAR and not authorized by BIS is a violation of the EAR.
