
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.11 License requirements that apply to entities acting or at significant risk of acting contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States.

BIS may impose foreign policy export, re-export, and transfer (in-country) license requirements, limitations on availability of license exceptions, and set license application review policy based on the criteria in this section. Such requirements, limitations and policy are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in the EAR. License requirements, limitations on use of license exceptions, and license application review policies will be imposed under this section by adding an entity to the Entity List (supplement no. 4 to this part) with a reference to this section and by stating on the Entity List the license requirements and license application review policies that apply to that entity, or by informing an exporter, re-exporter, or transferor pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section that a specific entity is subject to a license requirement, limitations on use of license exceptions and license application review policies as specified in a specific notice provided to an exporter, re-exporter, or transferor. BIS may remove an entity from the Entity List if it is no longer engaged in the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section and is unlikely to engage in such activities in the future, or if it is no longer at significant risk of acting contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States as described therein. BIS may modify the license exception limitations and license application review policies that apply to a particular entity to implement the policies of this section. BIS will implement the provisions of this section in accordance with the decisions of the End-User Review Committee or, if appropriate in a particular case, in accordance with the decisions of the body to which the End-User Review Committee decision is escalated. The End-User Review Committee will follow the procedures set forth in supplement no. 5 to this part.
