
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.11 License requirements that apply to entities acting or at significant risk of acting contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States.
####### Additional prohibition on persons informed by BIS.

(c)BIS may inform persons, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for:

(1) A specific export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) because there is an unacceptable risk that the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) is intended to circumvent the license requirement imposed on an entity listed in supplement no. 4 to this part; or

(2) The export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of specified items to a certain party because there is an unacceptable risk that the party is acting as an agent, front, or shell company for an entity listed in supplement no. 4 to this part, or is otherwise assisting that listed entity in circumventing the license requirement set forth in that entity's entry in supplement no. 4 to this part; or

(3) The export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of specified items to a certain party because there is reasonable cause to believe, based on specific and articulable facts, that the entity has been involved, is involved, or poses a significant risk of being or becoming involved in activities that are contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States, including the foreign policy interest of the protection of human rights throughout the world, and those acting on behalf of such entity. Specific notice will be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration or the Deputy Assistant Secretary's designee. The specific notice will include the license requirement, limitations on use of license exceptions, and license application review policy with which that exporter, re-exporter, or transferor must comply pursuant to this paragraph (c)(3). The ERC may add such entities to the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to this part.
