
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.12 Restrictions on exports and reexports to persons designated in or pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (Specially Designated Global Terrorist) (SDGT).
####### License requirement(s).

(a)(1) A license requirement applies to the export or reexport to an SDGT of any item subject to the EAR.

(2) To avoid duplication, U.S. persons are not required to seek separate authorization for an export or reexport to an SDGT of an item subject to both the EAR and OFAC's regulatory authority pursuant to Executive Order 13224. Therefore, if OFAC authorizes an export from the United States or an export or reexport by a U.S. person to an SDGT, no separate authorization from BIS is necessary.

(3) U.S. persons must seek authorization from BIS for the export or reexport to an SDGT of any item subject to the EAR that is not subject to OFAC's Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations in 31 CFR part 594.

(4) Non-U.S. persons must seek authorization from BIS for any export from abroad or reexport to an SDGT of any item subject to the EAR.

(5) Any export or reexport to an SDGT of any item subject to both the EAR and OFAC's regulatory authority pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and not authorized by OFAC is a violation of the EAR.

(6) Any export or reexport by a U.S. person to an SDGT of any item subject to the EAR that is not subject to regulation by OFAC and not authorized by BIS is a violation of the EAR. Any export from abroad or reexport by a non-U.S. person to an SDGT of any item subject to the EAR and not authorized by BIS is a violation of the EAR.

(7) These licensing requirements supplement any other requirements set forth elsewhere in the EAR.
