
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.13 Restrictions on exports and reexports to persons designated pursuant to Executive Order 12947 (Specially Designated Terrorist) (SDT).
####### License requirement(s).

(a)(1) A license requirement applies to the export or reexport to an SDT of any item subject to the EAR.

(2) To avoid duplication, U.S. persons are not required to seek separate authorization for an export or reexport to an SDT of an item subject both to the EAR and to OFAC's Terrorism Sanctions Regulations in 31 CFR part 595. Therefore, if OFAC authorizes an export or reexport of an item by a U.S. person to a SDT, no separate authorization from BIS is necessary.

(3) U.S. persons must seek authorization from BIS for the export or reexport to an SDT of an item subject to the EAR but not subject to OFAC's Terrorism Sanctions Regulations in 31 CFR part 595.

(4) Non-U.S. persons must seek authorization from BIS for the export from abroad or reexport to an SDT of any item subject to the EAR.

(5) Any export or reexport to an SDT by a U.S. person of any item subject both to the EAR and OFAC's Terrorism Sanctions Regulations in 31 CFR part 595 and not authorized by OFAC is a violation of the EAR.

(6) Any export or reexport by a U.S. person to an SDT of any item subject to the EAR that is not subject to OFAC's Terrorism Sanctions Regulations in 31 CFR part 595 and not authorized by BIS is a violation of the EAR. Any export from abroad or reexport by a non-U.S. person to an SDT of any item subject to the EAR and not authorized by BIS is a violation of the EAR.

(7) These licensing requirements supplement any other requirements set forth elsewhere in the EAR.
