
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.18 Restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers to persons designated in or pursuant to Executive Order 13315.
####### License requirements.

(a)(1) A license requirement applies to the export, reexport, or transfer of any item subject to the EAR to-

(i) Persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13315 of August 28, 2003; or

(ii) Persons determined to be subject to E.O. 13315.

(2) To avoid duplication, U.S. persons are not required to seek separate BIS authorization for an export, reexport, or transfer to a person identified in paragraph (a) of this section of any item subject to both the EAR and regulations maintained by OFAC. Therefore, if OFAC authorizes an export from the United States or an export, reexport, or transfer by a U.S. person to a person identified in paragraph (a) of this section, no separate authorization from BIS is necessary.

(3) U.S. persons must seek authorization from BIS for the export, reexport, or transfer to a person identified in paragraph (a) of this section of any item subject to the EAR but not subject to regulations maintained by OFAC.

(4) Non-U.S. persons must seek authorization from BIS for the export from abroad, reexport, or transfer to a person identified in paragraph (a) of this section of any item subject to the EAR.

(5) Any export, reexport, or transfer to a person identified in paragraph (a) of this section by a U.S. person of any item subject both to the EAR and regulations maintained by OFAC and not authorized by OFAC is a violation of the EAR.

(6) Any export, reexport, or transfer by a U.S. person to a person identified in paragraph (a) of this section of any item subject to the EAR that is not subject to regulations maintained by OFAC and not authorized by BIS is a violation of the EAR. Any export from abroad, reexport, or transfer by a non-U.S. person to a person identified in paragraph (a) of this section of any item subject to the EAR and not authorized by BIS is a violation of the EAR.

(7) These licensing requirements supplement any other requirements set forth elsewhere in the EAR.
