
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.19 Licensing policy regarding persons sanctioned pursuant to specified statutes.
####### i.e.,

Notwithstanding any other licensing policy elsewhere in the EAR, BIS will deny any export or reexport license application if any person who is a party to the transaction (the applicant, other party authorized to receive a license, purchaser, intermediate consignee, ultimate consignee, or end-user) is subject to one or more of the sanctions described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (e) of this section and will deny any export or reexport license application for an item listed on the Commerce Control List with a reason for control of MT if a person who is a party to the transaction is subject to a sanction described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(a) A sanction issued pursuant to the Iran-Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act of 1992 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note) that prohibits the issuance of any license to or by the sanctioned person.

(b) A sanction issued pursuant to the Iran, North Korea, and Syria Nonproliferation Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 note) that prohibits the granting of a license and requires the suspension of an existing license for the transfer to foreign persons of items, the export of which is controlled under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2401-2420), or the Export Administration Regulations.

(c) A sanction issued pursuant to section 11B(b)(1)(B)(ii) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2401-2420), that prohibits the issuance of new licenses for exports to the sanctioned person of items controlled pursuant to the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended.

(d) A sanction issued pursuant to section 11B(b)(1)(B)(i) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2401-2420), that prohibits the issuance of new licenses for exports to the sanctioned person of MTCR Annex equipment or technology controlled pursuant to the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended.

(e) A sanction issued pursuant to the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note) that prohibits the issuance of a specific license or grant of any other specific permission or authority to export any goods or technology to a sanctioned person under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2401-2420).
