
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.21 Restrictions on certain 'military end uses' or 'military end users'.
####### General prohibition.

(a)In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the Commerce Control List (CCL) (supplement no. 1 to part 774), you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country):

(1) Any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 2 to this part without a license if, at the time of the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), you have "knowledge," as defined in ยง 772.1 of the EAR, that the item is intended, entirely or in part, for a 'military end use,' as defined in paragraph (f) of this section, in Burma, Cambodia, the People's Republic of China (China), or Venezuela, or a Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, or Venezuelan 'military end user,' as defined in paragraph (g) of this section, wherever located. 'Military end users' located outside of Burma, Cambodia, China, or Venezuela are limited to entities identified on the 'Military End-User' (MEU) List under supplement no. 7 to this part.

(2) Any item subject to the EAR without a license if, at the time of the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country), you have "knowledge," as defined in ยง 772.1 of the EAR that the item is intended, entirely or in part, for a 'military end use,' as defined in paragraph (f) of this section, in Belarus or Russia, or a Belarusian or Russian 'military end user,' as defined in paragraph (g) of this section, wherever located. Belarusian or Russian 'military end users' located outside of Belarus or Russia are limited to entities identified on the Entity List under supplement no. 4 to this part 744 with a footnote 3 designation.
