
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.21 Restrictions on certain 'military end uses' or 'military end users'.
####### Additional prohibition on those informed by BIS.

(b)BIS may inform you either individually by specific notice, through amendment to the EAR published in the, or through a separate notification published in the, that a license is required for specific exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) of any item because there is an unacceptable risk of use in or diversion to a 'military end use' in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, the Russian Federation, or Venezuela, or for a Belarusian, Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Russian, or Venezuelan 'military end user,' wherever located. Specific notice will be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration or the Deputy Assistant Secretary's designee. The absence of BIS notification does not excuse the exporter from compliance with the license requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) 'Military End-User' (MEU) List. BIS may inform and provide notice to the public that certain entities are subject to the additional prohibition described under this paragraph (b) following a determination by the End-User Review Committee (ERC) that a specific entity is a 'military end user' pursuant to this section and therefore any exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to that entity represent an unacceptable risk of use in or diversion to a 'military end use' in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, the Russian Federation, or Venezuela, or for a Belarusian, Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, Russian, or Venezuelan 'military end user,' wherever located. Such Burmese, Cambodian, Chinese, or Venezuelan 'military end users' may be added to supplement no. 7 to this part- 'Military End-User' (MEU) List. Such Belarusian or Russian 'military end users' may also be added to supplement no. 4 to this part-Entity List and will be listed with a footnote 3 designation. License requirements for listed MEU are described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. The listing of entities under supplements no. 7 or 4 to this part is not an exhaustive listing of 'military end users' for purposes of this section, except for 'military end users' of a country identified in this section (Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, the Russian Federation, or Venezuela) not located in that same country. As specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, 'military end users' of a country identified in this section not located in that same country are exhaustively listed on either the Entity List with a footnote 3 designation or on the Military End-User (MEU) List under supplement no. 7 this part. Exporters, reexporters, and transferors are responsible for determining whether transactions with entities not listed on supplement no. 7 or 4 to this part are subject to a license requirement under paragraph (a) of this section. The process in this paragraph (b)(1) for placing entities on the MEU List and Entity List is only one method BIS may use to inform exporters, reexporters, and transferors of license requirements under this section.
