
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### ยง 744.22 Restrictions on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to certain military-intelligence end uses or end users.
####### Definitions.

(f)(1) 'Military-intelligence end use' means the "development," "production," operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of, or incorporation into, items described on the U.S. Munitions List (USML) (22 CFR part 121, International Traffic in Arms Regulations), or classified under ECCNs ending in "A018" or under "600 series" ECCNs, which are intended to support the actions or functions of a 'military-intelligence end user,' as defined in this section.

(2) 'Military-intelligence end user' means any intelligence or reconnaissance organization of the armed services (army, navy, marine, air force, or coast guard); or national guard. For license requirements applicable to other government intelligence or reconnaissance organizations of these countries, see ยง 744.21. 'Military-intelligence end users' subject to the license requirements set forth in this section located in Belarus, Burma, Cambodia, China, Russia, or Venezuela; or a country listed in Country Groups E:1 or E:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) include, but are not limited to, the 'military-intelligence end users' identified in this paragraph (f)(2). For 'military-intelligence end users' located in all other countries this paragraph (f)(2) is an exhaustive listing.
