
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 744 - CONTROL POLICY: END-USER AND END-USE BASED
###### Supplement No. 2 to Part 744 - List of Items Subject to the Military End Use or End User License Requirement of § 744.21

The following items, as described, are subject to the military end use or end user license requirement in § 744.21.

(1) Category 1 Materials, Chemicals, Microorganisms, and Toxins

(i) 1A290 Depleted uranium (any uranium containing less than 0.711% of the isotope U 235) in shipments of more than 1,000 kilograms in the form of shielding contained in X ray units, radiographic exposure or teletherapy devices, radioactive thermoelectric generators, or packaging for the transportation of radioactive materials.

(ii) 1C990 Fibrous and filamentary materials, not controlled by 1C010 or 1C210, for use in "composite" structures and with a specific modulus of 3.18x10m or greater and a specific tensile strength of 7.62x10m or greater.

(iii) 1C996 Hydraulic fluids containing synthetic hydrocarbon oils, having all the characteristics in the List of Items Controlled.

(iv) 1D993 "Software" specially designed for the "development", "production", or "use" of equipment or materials controlled by 1C210.b, or 1C990.

(v) 1D999 Limited to specific software controlled by 1D999.b for equipment controlled by 1B999.e that is specially designed for the production of prepregs controlled in Category 1, n.e.s.

(vi) 1E994 Limited to "technology" for the "development", "production", or "use" of fibrous and filamentary materials other than glass, aramid or polyethylene controlled by 1C990.

(2) Category 2 Materials Processing

(i) 2A290 Generators and other equipment "specially designed," prepared, or intended for use with nuclear plants.

(ii) 2A291 Equipment, except items controlled by 2A290, related to nuclear material handling and processing and to nuclear reactors, and "parts," "components" and "accessories" therefor (see List of Items Controlled).

(iii) 2A991 Limited to bearings and bearing systems not controlled by 2A001 and with operating temperatures above 573 K (300 &#xB0;C).

(iv) 2B991 Limited to "numerically controlled" machine tools having "positioning accuracies", with all compensations available, less (better) than 9 µm along any linear axis; and machine tools controlled under 2B991.d.1.a.

(v) 2B992 Non "numerically controlled" machine tools for generating optical quality surfaces, and specially designed components therefor.

(vi) 2B996 Limited to dimensional inspection or measuring systems or equipment not controlled by 2B006 with measurement uncertainty equal to or less (better) than (1.7 + L/1000) micrometers in any axes (L measured Length in mm).

(vii) 2B999 Specific processing equipment, n.e.s. (see List of Items Controlled).

(viii) 2D290 "Software" "specially designed" or modified for the "development," "production," or "use" of items controlled by 2A290 or 2A291.

(3) Category 3 Electronics Design, Development and Production

(i) 3A991 Electronic devices, and "components" not controlled by 3A001.

(ii) 3A992 General purpose electronic equipment not controlled by 3A002.

(iii) 3A999 Specific processing equipment, n.e.s. (see List of Items Controlled).

(iv) 3B991 Equipment not controlled by 3B001 for the manufacture of electronic "parts," "components" and materials, and "specially designed" "parts," "components" and "accessories" therefor.

(v) 3B992 Equipment not controlled by 3B002 for the inspection or testing of electronic "components" and materials, and "specially designed" "parts," "components" and "accessories" therefor.

(vi) 3C992 Positive resists designed for semiconductor lithography specially adjusted (optimized) for use at wavelengths between 370 and 245 nm.

(vii) 3D991 "Software" "specially designed" for the "development", "production", or "use" of electronic devices, "parts" or "components" controlled by 3A991, general purpose electronic equipment controlled by 3A992, or manufacturing and test equipment controlled by 3B991 and 3B992; or "software" "specially designed" for the "use" of equipment controlled by 3B001.g and .h.

(viii) 3E991 Limited to "technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development," "production," or "use" of digital oscilloscopes and transient recorders using analog-to-digital conversion techniques, capable of storing transients by sequentially sampling single-shot inputs at successive intervals of less than 1 ns (greater than 1 giga-sample per second), digitizing to 8 bits or greater resolution and storing 256 or more samples.

(4) Category 4 Computers

(i) 4A994 Limited to computers not controlled by 4A001 or 4A003, with an Adjusted Peak Performance ("APP") exceeding 0.5 Weighted TeraFLOPS (WT).

(ii) 4D993 "Program" proof and validation "software", "software" allowing the automatic generation of "source codes", and operating system "software" that are specially designed for real time processing equipment.

(iii) 4D994 Limited to "software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production", or "use" of equipment controlled by 4A101.

(5) Category 5 (Part 1) Telecommunications and Category 5 (Part 2) Information Security

(i) 5A991 Limited to telecommunications equipment designed to operate outside the temperature range from 219K (-54 &#xB0;C) to 397K (124 &#xB0;C), which is controlled by 5A991.a., radio equipment using Quadrature-amplitude-modulation (QAM) techniques, which is controlled by 5A991.b.7., and phased array antennae, operating above 10.5 Ghz, except landing systems meeting ICAO standards (MLS), which are controlled by 5A991.f.

(ii) 5B991 Telecommunications test equipment, n.e.s.

(iii) 5D991 Limited to "software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production", or "use" of equipment controlled by 5A991.a., 5A991.b.7., and 5A991.f., or of "software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production", or "use" of equipment controlled by 5A991.a., 5A991.b.7., and 5A991.f.

(iv) 5E991 Limited to "technology" for the "development", "production" or "use" of equipment controlled by 5A991.a., 5A991.b.7., or 5A991.f., or of "software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production", or "use" of equipment controlled by 5A991.a., 5A991.b.7., and 5A991.f.

(v) 5A992 Equipment not controlled by 5A002 (see List of Items Controlled).

(vi) 5D992 "Information Security" "software" not controlled by 5D002 (see List of Items Controlled).

(6) Category 6 Sensors and Lasers

(i) 6A991 Marine or terrestrial acoustic equipment, n.e.s., capable of detecting or locating underwater objects or features or positioning surface vessels or underwater vehicles; and "specially designed" "parts" and "components," n.e.s.

(ii) 6A993 Cameras, not controlled by 6A003 or 6A203 (see List of Items Controlled).

(iii) 6A995 "Lasers", not controlled by 6A005 or 6A205.

(iv) 6A996 "Magnetometers" not controlled by ECCN 6A006, "Superconductive" electromagnetic sensors, and "specially designed" "components" therefor, as follows (see List of Items Controlled).

(v) 6C992 Optical sensing fibers not controlled by 6A002.d.3 which are modified structurally to have a "beat length" of less than 500 mm (high birefringence) or optical sensor materials not described in 6C002.b and having a zinc content of equal to or more than 6% by "mole fraction."

(7) Category 7 Navigation and Avionics

(i) 7A994 Other navigation direction finding equipment, airborne communication equipment, all aircraft inertial navigation systems not controlled under 7A003 or 7A103, and other avionic equipment, including parts and components, n.e.s.

(ii) 7B994 Other equipment for the test, inspection, or "production" of navigation and avionics equipment.

(iii) 7D994 "Software", n.e.s., for the "development", "production", or "use" of navigation, airborne communication and other avionics.

(iv) 7E994 "Technology", n.e.s., for the "development", "production", or "use" of navigation, airborne communication, and other avionics equipment.

(8) Category 8 Marine

(i) 8A992 Vessels, marine systems or equipment, not controlled by 8A001 or 8A002, and "specially designed" "parts" and "components" therefor, and marine boilers and "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" therefor (see List of Items Controlled).

(ii) 8D992 "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production" or "use" of equipment controlled by 8A992.

(iii) 8E992 "Technology" for the "development", "production" or "use" of equipment controlled by 8A992.

(9) Category 9 Propulsion Systems, Space Vehicles and Related Equipment

(i) 9A991 "Aircraft", n.e.s., and gas turbine engines not controlled by 9A001 or 9A101 and "parts" and "components," n.e.s. (see List of Items Controlled).

(ii) 9B990 Vibration test equipment and "specially designed" "parts" and "components," n.e.s.

(iii) 9D991 "Software", for the "development" or "production" of equipment controlled by 9A991 or 9B991.

(iv) 9E991 "Technology", for the "development", "production" or "use" of equipment controlled by 9A991 or 9B991.
