
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 745 - CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION REQUIREMENTS
###### § 745.1 Advance notification and annual report of all exports of Schedule 1 chemicals to other States Parties.
####### Advance notification of exports.

(a)You must notify BIS at least 45 calendar days prior to exporting any quantity of a Schedule 1 chemical listed in supplement no. 1 to this part to another State Party, except that notifications for exports of 5 milligrams or less of saxitoxin (for medical or diagnostic purposes only) must be submitted to BIS at least 3 calendar days prior to the date of export (see 15 CFR 712.6(a)). This is in addition to the requirement to obtain an export license under the EAR for chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350 or 1C351 for any reason for control, or from the Department of State for Schedule 1 chemicals controlled under the ITAR. Note that such notifications may be sent to BIS prior to or after submission of a license application to BIS for Schedule 1 chemicals controlled subject to the EAR and under ECCNs 1C350 or 1C351 or to the Department of State for Schedule 1 chemicals controlled on the ITAR. Such notices must be submitted separately from license applications.

(1) Such notification should be on company letterhead or must clearly identify the reporting entity by name of company, complete address, name of contact person and telephone and fax numbers, along with the following information:

(i) Common Chemical Name;

(ii) Structural formula of the chemical;

(iii) Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) Registry Number;

(iv) Quantity involved in grams;

(v) Planned date of export;

(vi) Purpose (end-use) of export;

(vii) Name of recipient;

(viii) Complete street address of recipient;

(ix) Export license or control number, if known; and

(x) Company identification number, once assigned by BIS.

(2) Send the notification either by fax to (202) 482-1731 or by mail or courier delivery to the following address: Information Technology Team, Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 4515, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Attn: "Advance Notification of Schedule 1 Chemical Export".

(3) Upon receipt of the notification, BIS will inform the exporter of the earliest date the shipment may occur under the notification procedure. To export the Schedule 1 chemical, the exporter must have applied for and been granted a license (see §§ 742.2 and 742.18 of the EAR, or the ITAR at 22 CFR part 121.
