
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 745 - CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION REQUIREMENTS
###### ยง 745.1 Advance notification and annual report of all exports of Schedule 1 chemicals to other States Parties.
####### Annual report of exports.,each

(b)(1) You must report all exports of any quantity of a Schedule 1 chemical to another State Party during the previous calendar year, starting with exports taking place during calendar year 1997. Reports for exports during calendar years 1997 and 1998 are due to the Department of Commerce August 16, 1999. Thereafter, annual reports of exports are due on February 13 of the following calendar year. The report should be on company letterhead or must clearly identify the reporting entity by name of company, complete address, name of contact person and telephone and fax numbers along with the following information forexport:

(i) Common Chemical Name;

(ii) Structural formula of the chemical;

(iii) CAS Registry Number;

(iv) Quantity involved in grams;

(v) Date of export;

(vi) Export license number;

(vii) Purpose (end-use) of export;

(viii) Name of recipient;

(ix) Complete address of recipient, including street address, city and country; and (x) Company identification number, once assigned by BIS.

(2) The report must be signed by a responsible party, certifying that the information provided in the annual report is, to the best of his/her knowledge and belief, true and complete.

(3) Send the report either by fax to (202) 482-1731 or by mail or courier delivery to the following address: Information Technology Team, Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 4515, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Attn: "Annual Report of Schedule 1 Chemical Export".
