
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 745 - CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION REQUIREMENTS
###### ยง 745.2 End-Use Certificate reporting requirements under the Chemical Weapons Convention.
####### not

(a)(1) No U.S. person, as defined in ยง 744.6(c) of the EAR, may export from the United States any Schedule 3 chemical identified in supplement no. 1 to this part to countries not party to the Chemical Weapons Convention (destinationslisted in supplement no. 2 to this part) unless the U.S. person obtains from the consignee an End-Use Certificate issued by the government of the importing destination. This Certificate must be issued by the foreign government's agency responsible for foreign affairs or any other agency or department designated by the importing government for this purpose. Supplement no. 3 to this part includes foreign authorized agencies responsible for issuing End-Use Certificates pursuant to this section. Additional foreign authorized agencies responsible for issuing End-Use Certificates will be included in supplement no. 3 to this part when known. End-Use Certificates may be issued to cover aggregate quantities against which multiple shipments may be made to a single consignee. An End-Use Certificate covering multiple shipments may be used until the aggregate quantity is shipped. End-Use Certificates must be submitted separately from license applications.

(2) Submit a copy of the End-Use Certificate, no later than 7 days after the date of export, either by fax to (202) 482-1731 or by mail or courier delivery to the following address: Information Technology Team, Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 4515, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Attn: "CWC End-Use Certificate Report".

(b) The End-Use Certificate described in paragraph (a) of this section must state the following:

(1) That the chemicals will be used only for purposes not prohibited under the Chemical Weapons Convention;

(2) That the chemicals will not be transferred to other end-user(s) or end-use(s);

(3) The types and quantities of chemicals;

(4) Their specific end-use(s); and

(5) The name(s) and complete address(es) of the end-user(s).
