
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### § 746.1 Introduction.
####### Sanctions on selected categories of items to specific destinations.

(b)(1) BIS controls the export and reexport of selected categories of items to countries under United Nations Security Council arms embargoes. See the Commerce Control List in supplement no. 1 to part 774. See also §§ 746.3 (Iraq) and 746.4 (North Korea).

(2) The countries subject to United Nations Security Council arms embargoes are: Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Eritrea, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, and Sudan.

(3) A license is required to export or reexport items identified in Part 774 as having a "UN" reason for control to countries identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. To the extent consistent with United States national security and foreign policy interests, BIS will not approve applications for such licenses if the authorization would be contrary to the relevant United Nations Security Council Resolution.

(4) You may not use any License Exception, other than License Exception GOV, for items for personal or official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government or agencies of cooperating governments as set forth in § 740.11(b) of the EAR, to export or reexport items with a UN reason for control to countries listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. This paragraph does not apply to Iraq, which is governed by § 746.3(c) of this part; North Korea, which is governed by § 746.4(c) of this part; or Iran, which is governed by § 746.7(c) of this part.
