
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### § 746.2 Cuba.
####### License exceptions.

(1)You may export or reexport without a license if your transaction meets all the applicable terms and conditions of any of the following License Exceptions. To determine the scope and eligibility requirements, you will need to turn to the sections or specific paragraphs of part 740 of the EAR (License Exceptions). Read each License Exception carefully, as the provisions available for embargoed countries are generally narrow.

(i) Temporary exports and reexports (TMP) by the news media (see § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR).

(ii) Operation technology and software (TSU) for legally exported commodities or software (see § 740.13(a) of the EAR).

(iii) Sales technology (TSU) (see § 740.13(b) of the EAR).

(iv) Software updates (TSU) for legally exported software (see § 740.13(c) of the EAR).

(v) Parts (RPL) for one-for-one replacement in certain legally exported commodities (see § 740.10(a) of the EAR).

(vi) Baggage (BAG) (see § 740.14 of the EAR).

(vii) Governments and international organizations (GOV) (see § 740.11 of the EAR).

(viii) Gift parcels and humanitarian donations (GFT) (see § 740.12 of the EAR).

(ix) Items in transit (TMP) from Canada through the U.S. (see § 740.9(b)(1)(iv) of the EAR).
