
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### ยง 746.3 Iraq.
####### License requirements.

(a)(1) A license is required for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of any item controlled on the Commerce Control List for NS, MT, NP, CW, CB, RS, CC, EI, SI, or SL reasons. See part 742 of the EAR.

(2) A license is required for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of any item controlled on the Commerce Control List for UN reasons.

(3) A license is required for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of items on the Commerce Control List controlled for RS reasons under the following ECCNs: 0B999, 0D999, 1B999, 1C992, 1C995, 1C997, 1C999 and 6A992.

(4) A license is required for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of any item subject to the EAR if, at the time of the export, reexport or transfer, you know, have reason to know, or are informed by BIS that the item will be, or is intended to be, used for a "military end-use" or by a "military end-user", as defined in this section. This license requirement does not apply to exports, reexports or transfers of items for the official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government or exports, reexports or transfers to the Government of Iraq. See ยง 740.11(b)(3) of the EAR for the definition of "agency of the U.S. Government." BIS may inform an exporter, reexporter, or other person, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for export, reexport or transfer of items subject to the EAR to specified end-users, because BIS has determined that there is an unacceptable risk of diversion to the uses or users described in this paragraph. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. The absence of any such notification does not excuse the exporter, reexporter or other person from compliance with the license requirements of this paragraph.
