
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### § 746.3 Iraq.
####### Licensing policy.

(b)(1) License applications for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of items listed in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section for Iraqi civil nuclear or military nuclear activity, except for use of isotopes for medical, industrial or agricultural purposes, will be subject to a policy of denial.

(2) License applications for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of machine tools controlled for national security (NS) or nuclear nonproliferation (NP) reasons, as well as for any items controlled for crime control (CC) or United Nations (UN) reasons (including items classified under ECCN 0A505.c) or ECCNs that end in the number "018" or items classified under "600 series" ECCNs, that would make a material contribution to the production, research, design, development, support, maintenance or manufacture of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, ballistic missiles or arms and related materiel will be subject to a general policy of denial. Exports of "600 series" items to the Government of Iraq will be reviewed under the policies set forth for such items in §§ 742.4(b) and 742.6(b) of the EAR.

(3) License applications for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of items listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine if they would contribute to the building of Iraqi civil infrastructure. Applications determined not to contribute to the building of Iraqi civil infrastructure will be subject to a general policy of denial.

(4) License applications for the export or reexport to Iraq or transfer within Iraq of items listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section will be subject to a policy of denial.
