
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### ยง 746.4 North Korea.
####### Luxury goods.

(1)Applications to export or reexport luxury goods, e.g., luxury automobiles; yachts; gems; jewelry; other fashion accessories; cosmetics; perfumes; furs; designer clothing; luxury watches; rugs and tapestries; electronic entertainment software and equipment; recreational sports equipment; tobacco; wine and other alcoholic beverages; musical instruments; art; and antiques and collectible items, including but not limited to rare coins and stamps are subject to a general policy of denial. For further information on luxury goods, see supplement no. 1 to part 746.

(2) Applications to export or reexport arms and related materiel are subject to a general policy of denial. In addition, applications to export or reexport items specified by UN documents S/2006/814, S/2006/815 and S/2006/853 and other items that the UN Security Council or the Sanctions Committee established pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1718 has determined could contribute to North Korea's nuclear-related, ballistic missile-related or other weapons of mass destruction-related programs are also subject to a general policy of denial.

(3) Applications to export or reexport items controlled for NP and MT reasons (except ECCN 7A103 items) are subject to a general policy of denial.

(4) Applications to export or reexport humanitarian items (e.g., blankets, basic footwear, heating oil, and other items meeting subsistence needs) intended for the benefit of the North Korean people; items in support of United Nations humanitarian efforts; and agricultural commodities or medical devices items that are determined by BIS, in consultation with the interagency license review community, not to be luxury goods are subject to a general policy of approval.

(5) Other items on the CCL. See Section 742.19(b) of the EAR.
