
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### § 746.4 North Korea.
####### License exceptions.

(c)You may export or reexport without a license if your transaction meets all the applicable terms and conditions of any of the license exception subsections specified in this paragraph. To determine scope and eligibility requirements, you will need to refer to the sections or specific paragraphs of part 740 (License Exceptions). Read each license exception carefully, as the provisions available for countries subject to sanctions are generally narrow.

(1) TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR.

(2) GOV for items for personal or official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), or the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) as set forth in § 740.11(a), (b)(2) of the EAR.

(3) GFT, except that GFT is not available to export or reexport luxury goods as described in this section to North Korea.

(4) TSU for operation technology and software for lawfully exported commodities as set forth in § 740.13(a) and sales technology as set forth in § 740.13 (b) of the EAR.

(5) BAG for exports of items by individuals leaving the United States as personal baggage as set forth in § 740.14(a) through (d) of the EAR.

(6) AVS for civil aircraft as set forth in § 740.15(a)(4) of the EAR.

(d) The Secretary of State has designated North Korea as a country the government of which has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism. For anti-terrorism controls, see Section 742.19 of the EAR.

(e) OFAC maintains controls on certain transactions involving persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction and North Korean entities or any specially designated North Korean national.
