
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### § 746.5 Russian and Belarusian industry sector sanctions.
####### License requirements,General prohibition.

(a)-(1)(i) A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 2 to this part and items specified in ECCNs 0A998, 1C992, 3A229, 3A231, 3A232, 6A991, 8A992, and 8D999 when you "know" that the item will be used directly or indirectly in exploration for, or production of, oil or gas in Russian deepwater (greater than 500 feet) or Arctic offshore locations or shale formations in Russia or Belarus, or are unable to determine whether the item will be used in such projects. Such items include, but are not limited to, drilling rigs, parts for horizontal drilling, drilling and completion equipment, subsea processing equipment, Arctic-capable marine equipment, wireline and down hole motors and equipment, drill pipe and casing, software for hydraulic fracturing, high pressure pumps, seismic acquisition equipment, remotely operated vehicles, compressors, expanders, valves, and risers.

(ii) A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 4 to this part to or within Russia or Belarus.

(iii) A license is required to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any item subject to the EAR listed in supplement no. 6 to this part to or within Russia or Belarus.

(iv) You should be aware that other provisions of the EAR, including parts 742 and 744 and § 746.8, also apply to exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to Russia or Belarus. License applications submitted to BIS under this section may include the phrase "§ 746.5(a)(1)(i)", "§ 746.5(a)(1)(ii)", or "§ 746.5(a)(1)(iii)" in Block 9 (Special Purpose) as described in supplement no. 1 to part 748 of the EAR.
