
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### ยง 746.5 Russian and Belarusian industry sector sanctions.
####### Licensing policy.

(b)(1) Applications for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section that requires a license for Russia or Belarus will be reviewed under a policy of denial when for use directly or indirectly for exploration or production from deepwater (greater than 500 feet), Arctic offshore, or shale projects in Russia or Belarus that have the potential to produce oil or gas. The following types of license applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the transaction in question would benefit the Russian or Belarusian government or defense sector: applications for export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of items that may be necessary for health and safety reasons and applications for the disposition of items by companies not headquartered in Country Group D:1, D:5, E:1 or E:2 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 that are curtailing or closing all operations in Russia or Belarus.

(2) Applications for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section that requires a license for Russia or Belarus will be reviewed under a policy of denial. The following types of license applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the transaction in question would benefit the Russian or Belarusian government or defense sector: applications for export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of items that may be necessary for health and safety reasons; applications for items that meet humanitarian needs; and applications for the disposition of items by companies not headquartered in Country Group D:1, D:5, E:1 or E:2 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 that are curtailing or closing all operations in Russia or Belarus.
