
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### § 746.6 Crimea Region of Ukraine and Covered Regions of Ukraine.
####### License exceptions.

(c)You may export, reexport or transfer (in-country) without a license if your transaction meets all the applicable terms and conditions of any of the license exception paragraphs specified in this paragraph (c). To determine scope and eligibility requirements, you will need to refer to the sections or specific paragraphs of part 740 (License Exceptions) of the EAR, as well as § 740.2 license exception restrictions. Read each license exception carefully, as the provisions available for countries subject to sanctions are generally narrow.

(1) TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR.

(2) GOV for items for personal or official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), or the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) as set forth in § 740.11(a) and (b)(2) of the EAR.

(3) GFT for gift parcels and humanitarian donations as set forth in § 740.12 of the EAR.

(4) TSU for operation technology and software for lawfully exported commodities as set forth in § 740.13(a) and sales technology as set forth in § 740.13 (b) of the EAR.

(5) BAG for exports of items by individuals leaving the United States as personal baggage as set forth in § 740.14(a) through (d) of the EAR.

(6) AVS for civil aircraft and vessels as set forth in § 740.15(a)(4) and (d) of the EAR.
