
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### ยง 746.8 Sanctions against Russia and Belarus.
####### Licensing policy.

(b)With limited exceptions, applications for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item that requires a license pursuant to the requirements of this section will be reviewed with a policy of denial. The following types of license applications for licenses required under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the transaction in question would benefit the Russian or Belarusian government or defense sector: applications related to safety of flight; applications related to maritime safety; applications for civil nuclear safety; applications to meet humanitarian needs; applications that support government space cooperation; applications for items destined to wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices, foreign subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies, joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, the wholly-owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740, joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6; applications for companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 to support civil telecommunications infrastructure; applications for government-to-government activities; and applications for the disposition of items by companies not headquartered in Country Group D:1, D:5, E:1 or E:2 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 that are curtailing or closing all operations in Russia or Belarus. License applications required under paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be reviewed under a policy of denial in all cases.
