
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### § 746.8 Sanctions against Russia and Belarus.
####### License exceptions.

(c)No license exceptions may overcome the license requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, except as specified in the Entity List entry for a Footnote 3 entity on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744 of the EAR. No license exceptions may overcome the license requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section except the following license exceptions identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) License Exception TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR.

(2) License Exception GOV (§ 740.11(b) of the EAR).

(3) License Exception TSU for software updates for civil end-users that are wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices, foreign subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. and companies, joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR countries, the wholly-owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740, or joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Group A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 (§ 740.13(c) of the EAR).

(4) License Exception BAG, excluding firearms and ammunition (§ 740.14, excluding paragraph (e), of the EAR).

(5) License Exception AVS, excluding any aircraft registered in, owned or controlled by, or under charter or lease by Russia or Belarus or a national of Russia or Belarus (§ 740.15(a) and (b) of the EAR).

(6) License Exception ENC for civil end-users that are wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices, foreign subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies, joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR countries, the wholly-owned subsidiaries, branches, or sales offices of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740, or joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Group A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 (§ 740.13(c) of the EAR) (§ 740.17 of the EAR).

(7) License Exception CCD (§ 740.19 of the EAR).
