
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### Supplement No. 4 to Part 746 - Russian and Belarusian Industry Sector Sanctions Pursuant to ยง 746.5(a)(1)(ii)
####### e.g.,

(a) The source for the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS)-6 codes and descriptions in this list comes from the United States International Trade Commission (USITC's) Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (2023). The items described in supplement no. 4 to part 746 include any modified or designed "components," "parts," "accessories," and "attachments" therefor regardless of the HTS Code or HTS Description of the "components," "parts," "accessories," and "attachments," apart from any "part" or minor "component" that is a fastener (screw, bolt, nut, nut plate, stud, insert, clip, rivet, pin), washer, spacer, insulator, grommet, bushing, spring, wire, or solder. This supplement includes two columns consisting of the HTS Code and HTS Description to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in identifying the products in this supplement. For information on HTS codes in general, you may contact a local import specialist at U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the nearest port. HTS-6 codes 841350, 841360, 842139, 843049, 843139, and 847989 are listed in both this supplement and supplement no. 2 to this part, so exporters, reexporters, and transferors must comply with the license requirements under both ยง 746.5(a)(1)(i) and (ii) as applicable.

(b) The items identified in the HTS-6 Code column of this supplement are subject to the license requirement under ยง 746.5(a)(1)(ii). The other column-HTS Description-is intended to assist exporters with their AES filing responsibilities. The license requirements extend to HTS Codes at the 8 and 10 digit level (HTS-8 and HTS-10 codes, respectively) when such longer HTS Codes begin with the HTS-6 Codes as their first 6 numbers.
