
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### Supplement No. 4 to Part 746 - Russian and Belarusian Industry Sector Sanctions Pursuant to § 746.5(a)(1)(ii)
####### e.g.,
######## www.census.gov/foreign-trade/aes/documentlibrary/#concordance.,e.g.,

The source for the Schedule B numbers and descriptions in this list is the Bureau of the Census's Schedule B concordance of exports 2022. Census's Schedule B List 2022 can be found atThe Introduction Chapter of the Schedule B provides important information about classifying products and interpretations of the Schedule B,NESOI means Not Elsewhere Specified or Included. In addition, important information about products within a particular chapter may be found at the beginning of chapters. This supplement includes three columns consisting of the Schedule B, 2-Digit Chapter Heading, and 10-Digit Commodity Description and Per Unit Wholesale Price in the U.S. if applicable to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in identifying the products in this supplement. For purposes of § 746.10(a)(1) and (2), a 'luxury good' means any item that is identified in this supplement. Schedule B number 8412294000 is listed in both this supplement and supplement no. 4 to this part, so exporters, reexporters, and transferors must comply with the license requirements under both §§ 746.5(a)(1)(ii) and 746.10 as applicable.
