
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### Supplement No. 4 to Part 746 - Russian and Belarusian Industry Sector Sanctions Pursuant to ยง 746.5(a)(1)(ii)
####### e.g.,
######## www.census.gov/foreign-trade/aes/documentlibrary/#concordance.,e.g.,
############# Supplement No. 6 to Part 746 - Russian and Belarusian Industry Sector Sanctions Pursuant to ยง 746.5()(1)()

The items identified in this supplement are a subset of items that are otherwise designated as EAR99 under the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774. These items may be useful for Russia's chemical and biological weapons production capabilities or may be diverted from Belarus to Russia for these activities of concern. These items consist of discrete chemicals, biologics, fentanyl and its precursors, and related equipment. BIS has specified Chemical Abstract Numbers (CAS) where applicable in this supplement to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in classifying these items. In addition, paragraph (g) of supplement no. 6 to part 746 identifies equipment and other items that BIS has determined are not manufactured in Russia or are otherwise important to Russia in developing advanced production and development capabilities to enable advanced manufacturing across a number of industries or may be diverted from Belarus to Russia for these activities of concern.

(a) Chemicals in concentrations of 95% weight or greater, as follows:

(b) Chemicals in concentrations of 90% weight or greater, as follows:
