
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### Supplement No. 4 to Part 746 - Russian and Belarusian Industry Sector Sanctions Pursuant to ยง 746.5(a)(1)(ii)
####### e.g.,
######## Note 9 to paragraph (g)(2):

'Cryogenic refrigeration systems' include but are not limited to Dilution Refrigeration, Adiabatic Demagnisation Refrigerators and Laser Cooling Systems.

(3) Ultra-High Vacuum (UHV) equipment as follows:

(i) UHV pumps (sublimation, turbomolecular, diffusion, cryogenic, ion-getter);

(ii) UHV pressure gauges.

(4) High Quantum Efficiency (QE) photodetectors and sources with a QE greater than 80% in the wavelength range exceeding 300nm but not exceeding 1700nm;

(5) Manufacturing equipment as follows:

(i) Additive manufacturing equipment for the production of metal parts;

(ii) Additive manufacturing equipment for "energetic materials", including equipment using ultrasonic extrusion;

(iii) Vat photopolymerisation additive manufacturing equipment using Stereo Lithography (SLA) or Direct Light Processing (DLP)

(6) Metal powders and metal alloy powders "specially designed" for the additive manufacturing equipment specified in 3a.

(7) Microscopes, related equipment and detectors, as follows:

(i) Scanning Electron Microscopes (SEM);

(ii) Scanning Auger Microscopes;

(iii) Transmission Electron Microscopes (TEM);

(iv) Atomic Force Microscopes (AFM);

(v) Scanning Force Microscopes (SFM);

(vi) Equipment and detectors "specially designed" for use with the microscopes specified in a. to e., employing any of the following:

(A) X-ray Photo Spectroscopy (XPS):

(B) Energy-Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy (EDX, EDS);

(C) Electron Back Scatter Detector (EBSD) systems;

(D) Electron Spectroscopy for Chemical Analysis (ESCA).

(8) 'Decapsulation' equipment for semiconductor devices.

(9) "Software" "specially designed" or modified for the "development", "production" or "use" of the items specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (8) of this supplement.

(10) "Software" for Digital Twins (DT) of additive manufacture products or for the determination of the reliability of additive manufacture products.

(11) "Technology" for the "development", "production" or "use" of the items specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (10) of this supplement.
