
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 746 - EMBARGOES AND OTHER SPECIAL CONTROLS
###### Supplement No. 7 to Part 746 - Items That Require a License Under § 746.7 When Destined to Iran and Under § 746.8 When Destined to Russia or Belarus
####### e.g.,

(a) The source for the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS)-6 codes and descriptions in this list is the United States International Trade Commission (USITC's) Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (2023). The items described in this supplement include any modified or designed "components," "parts," "accessories," and "attachments" therefor regardless of the HTS Code or HTS Description of the "components," "parts," "accessories," and "attachments," apart from any "part" or minor "component" that is a fastener (screw, bolt, nut, nut plate, stud, insert, clip, rivet, pin), washer, spacer, insulator, grommet, bushing, spring, wire, or solder. This supplement includes two columns consisting of the HTS Code and HTS Description to assist exporters, reexporters, and transferors in identifying the products in this supplement. For information on HTS codes in general, you may contact a local import specialist at U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the nearest port.

(b) The items classified under the provisions identified in the HTS-6 Code column of this supplement are subject to the license requirements under §§ 746.7(a)(1)(ii) and (iii) and 746.8(a)(2). The other column-HTS Description-is intended to assist exporters with their AES filing responsibilities. The license requirements extend to HTS Codes at the 8 and 10 digit level when those HTS-8 and HTS-10 codes begin with the HTS-6 Codes as the first 6 numbers of those longer HS Codes.
