
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### § 748.3 Classification requests and advisory opinions.
####### Introduction.

(a)You may ask BIS to provide you with the correct Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) down to the paragraph (or subparagraph) level, if appropriate. BIS will issue you a determination that each item identified in your classification request is either described by an ECCN in the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR or not described by an ECCN and, therefore, an "EAR99" item. These classification determinations issued by BIS are not U.S. Government determinations that the items described therein are "subject to the EAR," as this term is defined in § 734.3 of the EAR. Those who request commodity classifications and advisory opinions should have determined that the items at issue are not subject to the exclusive export control jurisdiction of one of the other U.S. Government agencies listed in § 734.3(b) of the EAR. If requested, for a given end-use, end-user, and/or destination, BIS will advise you whether a license is required, or likely to be granted, for a particular transaction. Note that these responses do not bind BIS to issuing a license in the future. This type of request, along with requests for guidance regarding other interpretations of the EAR, is commonly referred to as an "Advisory Opinion." The encryption provisions in the EAR require the submission of a classification request in accordance with § 740.17(d) of the EAR in order for certain items to be eligible for export and reexport under License Exception ENC (see § 740.17 of the EAR) or to be released from "EI" controls (see §§ 740.17(b)(2) and 740.17(b)(3) of the EAR).
