
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### ยง 748.3 Classification requests and advisory opinions.
####### Classification requests.

(b)Submit classification requests in accordance with the procedures in ยง 748.1.

(1) Each Classification Request must be limited to six items. Exceptions may be granted by BIS on a case-by-case basis for several related items if the relationship between the items is satisfactorily substantiated in the request. Classification requests must be supported by any descriptive literature, brochures, precise technical specifications or papers that describe the items in sufficient technical detail to enable classification by BIS submitted as PDF files attached to the SNAP-R submission unless a paper submission is authorized pursuant to ยง 748.1 of the EAR.

(2) When submitting a classification request, you must complete Blocks 1 through 5, 14, 22(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i), 24, and 25 on the application. You must provide a recommended classification in Block 22(a) and explain the basis for your recommendation based on the technical parameters specified in the appropriate ECCN in Block 24. If you are unable to determine a recommended classification for your item, include an explanation in Block 24, identifying the ambiguities or deficiencies that precluded you from making a recommended classification.

(3) BIS assigns each of its commodity classifications a Commodity Classification Automated Tracking System (CCATS) number. Neither the BIS classification nor the CCATS number may be relied upon or cited as evidence that the U.S. Government has determined that the items described in the commodity classification determination are subject to the EAR (See 15 CFR 734.3).
