
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### ยง 748.3 Classification requests and advisory opinions.
####### Advisory opinions.,RPD2@bis.doc.gov,http://www.bis.doc.gov.

(c)Advisory opinion requests must be made in writing, and may be delivered to BIS by mail, by email, or through the BIS website. If delivering a request by mail, submit to the address listed in ยง 748.1(d)(2). Both your letter and envelope must be marked "Advisory Opinion." If submitting by email, submit towith the subject title "Advisory Opinion." If submitting through the BIS website, see

(1) Your submission must contain the following information if you are requesting guidance regarding interpretations of the EAR:

(i) The name, title, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the person to contact,

(ii) Your complete address comprised of street address, city, state, country, and postal code; and

(2) If you are requesting BIS to determine whether a license is required, or the licensing policy related to a particular end-use, end-user, and/or destination, in addition to the information required in ยง 748.3(c)(1) you must also include:

(i) All available information on the parties to the transaction and the proposed end-use or end-user,

(ii) The model number for each item, where appropriate,

(iii) The Export Control Classification Number, if known, for each item; and

(iv) Any descriptive literature, brochures, technical specifications or papers that describe the items in sufficient technical detail to enable BIS to verify the correct classification.

(3) Requests for Validated End-User authorization should be submitted in accordance with the provisions set forth in ยง 748.15 and supplement nos. 8 and 9 to this part.

(4) Advisory opinions are limited in scope to BIS's interpretation of EAR provisions. Advisory opinions differ from commodity classifications in that advisory opinions are not limited to the interpretation of provisions contained in the Commerce Control List. Advisory opinions may not be relied upon or cited as evidence that the U.S. Government has determined that the items described in the advisory opinion are not subject to the export control jurisdiction of another agency of the U.S. Government (See 15 CFR 734.3).
