
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### § 748.3 Classification requests and advisory opinions.
####### Classification requests for encryption items.

(d)A classification request associated with encryption items transferred from the U.S. Munitions List consistent with Executive Order 13026 of November 15, 1996 (3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 228) and pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum of that date may be required to determine eligibility under License Exception ENC or for release from "EI" controls. Refer to supplement no. 6 to part 742 of the EAR for a complete list of technical information that is required for encryption classification requests. Refer to § 740.17(e)(3) and supplement no. 8 to part 742 of the EAR for information that is required to be submitted in a self-classification report. Refer to § 740.17(b) of the EAR for instructions regarding mass market encryption commodities and software, including self-classifications and classification requests. Refer to § 740.17 of the EAR for the provisions of License Exception ENC, including encryption self-classifications, classification requests and sales reporting. All classification requests, notifications and reports submitted to BIS pursuant to §§ 740.17 and 742.15(b) of the EAR will be reviewed by the ENC Encryption Request Coordinator, Ft. Meade, MD.
