
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### ยง 748.9 Support documents for evaluation of foreign parties in license applications and/or for promoting compliance with license requirements.
####### Exceptions to requirements to obtain support documents.

(c)(1) Even if a support document requirement is imposed by paragraph (b) of this section, no support document is required for any of the following situations:

(i) The ultimate consignee or purchaser is an "Agency of the United States Government" (see ยง 740.11(b)(1) for definition). If either the ultimate consignee or purchaser is not an agency of the United States government, however, a support document may still be required from the non-U.S. governmental party;

(ii) The ultimate consignee or purchaser is a foreign government(s) or foreign government agency(ies), other than the government of the People's Republic of China. To determine whether the parties in a transaction meet the definition of "foreign government agency," refer to the definition contained in part 772 of the EAR. If either the ultimate consignee or purchaser is not a foreign government or foreign government agency, however, a support document may still be required from the nongovernmental party;

(iii) The license application is filed by, or on behalf of, a relief agency registered with the Advisory Committee on Voluntary Foreign Aid, U.S. Agency for International Development, for export to a member agency in the foreign country;

(iv) The license application is submitted for commodities for temporary exhibit, demonstration, or testing purposes;

(v) The license application is submitted for commodities controlled for short supply reasons (see part 754 of the EAR);

(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) The license application is submitted for software or technology; or

(viii) The license application is submitted for encryption commodities controlled under ECCN 5A002, 5A004 or 5B002.

(2) BIS will consider granting an exception to the requirement for obtaining a support document where the requirements cannot be met due to circumstances beyond the applicant's control. An exception will not be granted contrary to the objectives of the U.S. export control laws and regulations. Refer to ยง 748.13 of this part for specific instructions on procedures for requesting an exception.
