
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### ยง 748.11 Statement by Ultimate Consignee and Purchaser.
####### Obtaining the document.

(b)(1) The ultimate consignee and purchaser must complete either a statement on company letterhead, or Form BIS-711, Statement by Ultimate Consignee and Purchaser, as described in paragraph (c) of this section. Unless otherwise specified, any reference in this section to "Statement by Ultimate Consignee and Purchaser" applies to both the statement on company letterhead and to Form BIS-711.

(2) If the consignee and purchaser elect to complete the statement on letterhead and both the ultimate consignee and purchaser are the same entity, only one statement is necessary.

(3) If the ultimate consignee and purchaser are separate entities, separate statements must be prepared and signed.

(4) If the ultimate consignee and purchaser elect to complete Form BIS-711, only one Form BIS-711 (containing the signatures of the ultimate consignee and purchaser) need be completed.

(5) Whether the ultimate consignee and purchaser sign a written statement or complete Form BIS-711, the following constraints apply:

(i) Responsible officials representing the ultimate consignee or purchaser must sign the statement. "Responsible official" is defined as someone with personal knowledge of the information included in the statement, and authority to bind the ultimate consignee or purchaser for whom they sign, and who has the power and authority to control the use and disposition of the licensed items.

(ii) The authority to sign the statement may not be delegated to any person (agent, employee, or other) whose authority to sign is not inherent in his or her official position with the ultimate consignee or purchaser for whom he or she signs. The signing official may be located in the United States or in a foreign country. The official title of the person signing the statement must also be included.

(iii) The consignee and/or purchaser must submit information that is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and must promptly send a new statement to the applicant if changes in the facts or intentions contained in their statement(s) occur after the statement(s) have been forwarded to the applicant. Once a statement has been signed, no corrections, additions, or alterations may be made. If a signed statement is incomplete or incorrect in any respect, a new statement must be prepared, signed and forwarded to the applicant.
