
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### ยง 748.15 Authorization Validated End-User (VEU).
####### Eligible end-users.

(a)The only end-users to whom eligible items may be exported, reexported, or transferred under VEU are those validated end-users identified in supplement no. 7 to part 748, according to the provisions in this section and those set forth in supplement nos. 8 and 9 to this part that have been granted VEU status by the End-User Review Committee (ERC) according to the process set forth in supplement no. 9 to this part.

(1) Requests for authorization must be submitted in the form of an advisory opinion request, as described in ยง 748.3(c)(2), and should include a list of items (items for purposes of authorization VEU include commodities, software and technology, except as excluded by paragraph (c) of this section), identified by ECCN, that exporters or reexporters intend to export, reexport or transfer to an eligible end-user, once approved. To ensure a thorough review, requests for VEU authorization must include the information described in supplement no. 8 to this part. Requests for authorization will be accepted from exporters, reexporters or end-users. Submit the request to: The Office of Exporter Services, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Room 2099B, Washington, DC 20230. Mark the package "Request for Authorization Validated End-User."

(2) In evaluating an end user for eligibility under authorization VEU, the ERC will consider a range of information, including such factors as: The entity's record of exclusive engagement in appropriate end-use activities; the entity's compliance with U.S. export controls; the need for an on-site review prior to approval; the entity's capability of complying with the requirements of authorization VEU; the entity's agreement to on-site reviews by representatives of the U.S. Government to ensure adherence to the conditions of the VEU authorization; and the entity's relationships with U.S. and foreign companies. In addition, when evaluating the eligibility of an end user, the ERC will consider the status of export controls and the support and adherence to multilateral export control regimes of the government of the eligible destination.

(3) The VEU authorization is subject to revision, suspension or revocation entirely or in part.

(4) Information submitted in a VEU request is deemed to constitute continuing representations of existing facts or circumstances. Any material or substantive change relating to the authorization must be promptly reported to BIS, whether VEU authorization has been granted or is still under consideration.
