
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### ยง 748.15 Authorization Validated End-User (VEU).
####### Notification requirement.

(g)Exporters and reexporters shipping under Authorization VEU and persons transferring (in-country) under Authorization VEU are required to provide the VEUs to which they are shipping or transferring notice of the shipment or transfer. Such notification must be conveyed to the VEU in writing and must include a list of the VEU-authorized contents of the shipment or transfer and a list of the ECCNs under which the VEU-authorized items in the shipment or transfer are classified, as well as a statement that the items are being, will be, or were shipped or transferred pursuant to Authorization VEU. Notification of the export, reexport or transfer (in-country) to the VEU must be made within a timeframe agreed to in writing by the VEU and the person exporting, reexporting or transferring (in-country). The VEU and the person exporting, reexporting or transferring (in-country) must agree to the notification timeframe prior to the initial shipment or transfer under Authorization VEU. Depending on the agreement between the VEU and the person exporting, reexporting or transferring (in-country), a notification may be for individual shipments or for multiple shipments. Exporters, reexporters and VEUs are required to maintain the notifications they send or receive in accordance with their recordkeeping requirements.
