
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 748 - BIS-748P, BIS-748P-A; Item Appendix, and BIS-748P-B; End-User Appendix; Multipurpose Application Instructions
####### not

If you aremaking a foreign availability assertion under part 768 of the EAR, you may still mark the box "Foreign Availability" with an (X), if you are submitting an assertion of foreign availability with your license application. Foreign availability assertions covered under part 768 are limited to items controlled for national security reasons. However, if an applicant intends to include foreign availability support material for items not controlled for national security reasons, applicants are permitted to do this as part of the license application by marking the box "Foreign Availability" with an (X) and including the foreign availability information, along with the support material for the license application. Applicants must clearly label this support material as "Foreign availability information-outside the scope of part 768". Although this information is outside the scope of part 768, applicants should still use supplement no. 1 to part 768 for general guidance regarding what types of information may be suitable for demonstrating foreign availability. The purpose of submitting this type of foreign availability information will be to make the U.S. Government more aware of the foreign availability of items not controlled for national security reasons.

Mark the "Tech. Specs." box with an (X) if you are submitting descriptive literature, brochures, technical specifications, etc. with your application. Mark the "Other" box with an (X) and insert the phrase "STA request" for the description of the support document to submit a request for License Exception STA eligibility pursuant to § 740.20(g). (See supplement no. 2 to part 748 under paragraph (w) for unique application and submission requirements for License Exception STA eligibility requests described under this Block 6.)

Block 7: Documents on File with Applicant. Certify that you have retained on file all applicable documents as required by the provisions of part 748 by placing an (X) in the appropriate Box(es).

Block 8: [Reserved]

Block 9: Special Purpose. Complete this block for certain items or types of transactions only if specifically required in supplement no. 2 to this part.

Block 10: Resubmission Application Control Number. If your original application was returned without action (RWA), provide the Application Control Number. This does not apply to applications returned without being registered.

Block 11: Replacement License Number. If you have received a license for identical items to the same ultimate consignee, but would like to make a modification that is not excepted in § 750.7(c) of the EAR, to the license as originally approved, enter the original license number and complete Blocks 12 through 25, where applicable. Include a statement in Block 24 regarding what changes you wish to make to the original license.

Block 12: Items Previously Exported. This Block should be completed only if you have marked the "Reexport" box in Block 5. Enter the license number, License Exception symbol (for exports under General Licenses, enter the appropriate General License symbol), or other authorization under which the items were originally exported, if known.

Block 13: Import/End-User Certificate. Enter the name of the country and number of the Import or End User Certificate obtained in accordance with provisions of this part.

Block 14: Applicant. Enter the applicant's name, street address, city, state/country, and postal code. Provide a complete street address. P.O. Boxes are not acceptable. Refer to § 748.5(a) of this part for a definition of "applicant". If you have marked "Export" in Block 5, you must include your company's Employer Identification Number unless you are filing as an individual or as an agent on behalf of the exporter. The Employee Identification Number is assigned by the Internal Revenue Service for tax identification purposes. Accordingly, you should consult your company's financial officer or accounting division to obtain this number.

Block 15: Other Party Authorized to Receive License. If you would like BIS to transmit the approved license to another party designated by you, complete all information in this Block, including name, street address, city, country, postal code and telephone number. Leave this space blank if the license is to be sent to the applicant. Designation of another party to receive the license does not alter the responsibilities of the applicant.

Block 16: Purchaser. Enter the purchaser's complete name, street address, city, country, postal code, and telephone or facsimile number. Refer to § 748.5(c) of this part for a definition of "purchaser". If the purchaser is also the ultimate consignee, enter the complete name and address. If your proposed transaction does not involve a separate purchaser, leave Block 16 blank.

Block 17: Intermediate consignee. Enter the intermediate consignee's complete name, street address, city, country, postal code, and telephone or facsimile number. Provide a complete street address, P.O. Boxes are not acceptable. Refer to § 748.5(d) of this part for a definition of "intermediate consignee". If this party is identical to that listed in Block 16, enter the complete name and address. If your proposed transaction does not involve use of an intermediate consignee, enter "None". If your proposed transaction involves more than one intermediate consignee, provide the same information in Block 24 for each additional intermediate consignee.

Block 18: Ultimate Consignee. This Block must be completed if you are submitting a license application. Enter the ultimate consignee's complete name, street address, city, country, postal code, and telephone or facsimile number. Provide a complete street address, P.O. Boxes are not acceptable. The ultimate consignee is the party who will actually receive the item for the end-use designated in Block 21. Refer to § 748.5(e) of this part for a definition of "ultimate consignee". A bank, freight forwarder, forwarding agent, or other intermediary may not be identified as the ultimate consignee. Government purchasing organizations are the sole exception to this requirement. This type of entity may be identified as the government entity that is the actual ultimate consignee in those instances when the items are to be transferred to the government entity that is the actual end-user, provided the actual end-user and end-use is clearly identified in Block 21 or in the additional documentation attached to the application.

If your application is for the reexport of items previously exported, enter the new ultimate consignee's complete name, street address, city, country, postal code, and telephone or facsimile number. Provide a complete street address, P.O. Boxes are not acceptable. If your application involves a temporary export or reexport, the applicant should be shown as the ultimate consignee in care of a person or entity who will have control over the items abroad.

Block 19: End-User. Complete this Block only if the ultimate consignee identified in Block 18 is not the actual end-user. If there will be more than one end-user, use Form BIS-748P-B to identify each additional end-user. Enter each end-user's complete name, street address, city, country, postal code, and telephone or facsimile number. Provide a complete street address, P.O. Boxes are not acceptable.

Block 20: Original Ultimate Consignee. If your application involves the reexport of items previously exported, enter the original ultimate consignee's complete name, street address, city, country, postal code, and telephone or facsimile number. Provide a complete street address, P.O. Boxes are not acceptable. The original ultimate consignee is the entity identified in the original application for export as the ultimate consignee or the party currently in possession of the items.

Block 21: Specific End-Use: This Block must be completed if you are submitting a license application. Provide a complete and detailed description of the end-use intended by the ultimate consignee and/or end-user(s). If you are requesting approval of a reexport, provide a complete and detailed description of the end-use intended by the new ultimate consignee or end-user(s) and indicate any other countries for which resale or reexport is requested. If additional space is necessary, use Block 21 on Form BIS-748P-A or B. Be specific-vague descriptions such as "research", "manufacturing", or "scientific uses" are not acceptable.

Block 22: For a license application, you must complete each of the sub-blocks contained in this Block. If you are submitting a classification request, you need not complete Blocks (e), (f), (g), and (h). If you wish to export, reexport, or have BIS classify more than one item, use Form BIS-748P-A for additional items.

(a) ECCN. Enter the Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) that corresponds to the item you wish to export or reexport. If you are asking BIS to classify your item, provide a recommended classification for the item in this Block.

(b) CTP. You must enter the "Adjusted Peak Performance" ("APP") in this Block if your application includes a digital computer or equipment containing a computer as described in supplement no. 2 to this part. Instructions on calculating the APP are contained in a Technical Note at the end of Category 4 in the CCL.

(c) Model Number. Enter the correct model number for the item.

(d) CCATS Number. If you have received a classification for this item from BIS, provide the CCATS number shown on the classification issued by BIS.

(e) Quantity. Identify the quantity to be exported or reexported, in terms of the unit commonly used in the trade.

(f) Units. The unit of quantity used in Block 22(e) must be entered on all license applications submitted to BIS. This Block may be left blank on license applications for technology only.

(g) Unit Price. Provide the fair market value of the items you wish to export or reexport. Round all prices to the nearest whole dollar amount. Give the exact unit price only if the value is less than $0.50. If normal trade practices make it impractical to establish a firm contract price, state in Block 24 the precise terms upon which the price is to be ascertained and from which the contract price may be objectively determined.

(h) Total Price. Provide the total price of the item(s) described in Block 22(j).

(i) Manufacturer. Provide the name only of the manufacturer, if known, for each of the items you wish to export, reexport, or have BIS classify, if different from the applicant.

(j) Technical Description. Provide a description of the item(s) you wish to export, reexport, or have BIS classify. Provide details when necessary to identify the specific item(s), include all characteristics or parameters shown in the applicable ECCN using measurements identified in the ECCN (e.g., basic ingredients, composition, electrical parameters, size, gauge, grade, horsepower, etc.). These characteristics must be identified for the items in the proposed transaction when they are different than the characteristics described in promotional brochure(s).

Block 23: Total Application Dollar Value. Enter the total value of all items contained on the application in U.S. Dollars. The use of other currencies is not acceptable.

Block 24: Additional Information. Enter additional data pertinent to the application as required in the EAR. Include special certifications, names of parties of interest not disclosed elsewhere, explanation of documents attached, etc. Do not include information concerning Block 22 in this space.

If your application represents a previously denied application, you must provide the Application Control Number from the original application.

If you are requesting BIS to classify your product, use this space to explain why you believe the ECCN entered in Block 22(a) is appropriate. This explanation must contain an analysis of the item in terms of the technical control parameters specified in the appropriate ECCN. If you have not identified a recommended classification in Block 22(a), you must state the reason you cannot determine the appropriate classification, identifying anything in the regulations that you believe precluded you from determining the correct classification.

If additional space is necessary, use Block 24 on Form BIS-748P-A or B.

This Block should be completed if your application includes a 9x515 or "600 series" item that is equivalent to a transaction previously approved under an ITAR license or other approval. Enter the previous State license number or other approval identifier in Block 24 of the BIS license application. If more than one previous State license number or other approval identifier is applicable, then enter the most recent one. Only those license applications where the particulars of the EAR license application are equivalent as previously authorized under the ITAR license or other approval in regard to the description of the item (including the item's function, performance capabilities, form and fit), purchaser, ultimate consignee and end users on the license will receive full consideration under this paragraph, which may result in a quicker processing time. The classification of the 9x515 or "600 series" item in question will no longer be the same because the item would no longer be "subject to the ITAR," but all other aspects of the description of the item must be the same in order to be reviewed under this expedited process under paragraph (x) of supplement no. 2 to part 748 of the EAR.

Block 25: You, as the applicant or duly authorized agent of the applicant, must manually sign in this Block. Rubber-stamped or electronic signatures are not acceptable. If you are an agent of the applicant, in addition to providing your name and title in this Block, you must enter your company's name in Block 24. Type both your name and title in the space provided.
