
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### Supplement No. 2 to Part 748 - Unique Application and Submission Requirements
####### License applications for the reexport of incorporated parts and components.

(2)If you are submitting a license application for the reexport of parts, components, or materials incorporated abroad into products that will be sent to designated third countries you must include the following information in your license application:

(i) In Block 9, enter the phrase "Parts and Components";

(ii) In Block 18, enter the name, street address, city and country of the foreign party who will be receiving the foreign-made product. If you are requesting approval for multiple countries or consignees enter "Various" in Block 18, and list the specific countries, Country Groups, or geographic areas in Block 24;

(iii) In Block 20, enter the name, street address, city, and country of the foreign party who will be exporting the foreign-made product incorporating U.S. origin parts, components or materials;

(iv) In Block 21, describe the activity of the ultimate consignee identified in Block 18 and the end-use of the foreign-made product. Indicate the final configuration if the product is intended to be incorporated in a larger system. If the end-use is unknown, state "unknown" and describe the general activities of the end-user;

(v) In Block 22(e), specify the quantity for each foreign-made product. If this information is unknown, enter "Unknown" in Block 22(e);

(vi) In Block 22(h), enter the digit "0" for each foreign-made product;

(vii) In Block 22(j), describe the foreign-made product that will be exported, specifying type and model or part number. Attach brochures or specifications, if available. Show as part of the description the unit value, in U.S. dollars, of the foreign-made product (if more than one foreign-made product is listed on the license application, specify the unit value for each type/model/part number). Also include a description of the U.S. content (including the applicable Export Control Classification Number(s)) and its value in U.S. dollars. If more than one foreign-made product is identified on the license application, describe the U.S. content and specify the U.S. content value for each foreign-made product. Also, provide sufficient supporting information to explain the basis for the stated values. To the extent possible, explain how much of the value of the foreign-made product represents foreign origin parts, components, or materials, as opposed to labor, overhead, etc. When the U.S. content varies and cannot be specified in advance, provide a range of percentage and value that would indicate the minimum and maximum U.S. content;

(viii) Include separately in Block 22(j) a description of any U.S. origin spare parts to be reexported with the foreign-made product, if they exceed the amount allowed by ยง 740.10 of the EAR. Enter the quantity, if appropriate, in Block 22(e). Enter the ECCN for the spare parts in Block 22(a) and enter the value of the spare parts in Block 22(h);

(ix) In Block 23, enter the digit "0";

(x) If the foreign-made product is the direct product of U.S. origin technology that was exported or reexported subject to written assurance, a request for waiver of that assurance, if necessary, may be made in Block 24. If U.S. origin technology will accompany a shipment to a country listed in Country Group D:1, E:1, or E:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) describe in Block 24 the type of technology and how it will be used.
