
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### Supplement No. 2 to Part 748 - Unique Application and Submission Requirements
####### License Exception STA eligibility requests for "600 series" end items.

(w)To request a License Exception STA eligibility requests for "600 series" end items pursuant to ยง 740.20(g), you must mark an (X) in the "Export" box in Block 5 (Type of Application) block. You must mark an (X) in the "Other" box and insert the phrase "STA request" " in Block 6 (Documents submitted with application) block. You must include the specific "600 Series" ECCN in Block 22. In addition to the ECCN, you will need to provide sufficient information for the U.S. Government to make a determination as to STA eligibility. This will require you to submit more than merely a description of the end item. In particular, you will need to provide supporting information for why you believe that the end item does not, for example, provide a critical military or intelligence advantage to the United States or is available in countries that are not regime partners or close allies. You will also need to provide information regarding whether and, if so, how the end item is controlled by the export control laws and regulations of close allies and regime partners, if known. If you are not able to provide some of the information described above, the U.S. Government will still evaluate the request, including using resources and information that may only be available to the U.S. Government. However, when submitting such requests you are encouraged to provide as much information as you can based on the criteria noted above to assist the U.S. Government in evaluating these License Exception STA eligibility requests. In addition, you should provide BIS with the text you would propose BIS use in describing the end item in the appropriate "600 series" ECCN and the online table referenced in ยง 740.20(g)(5)(i) in anticipation that the request may be approved pursuant to ยง 740.20(g). You may submit additional information that you believe is relevant to the U.S. Government in reviewing the License Exception STA eligibility request as part of that support document or as an additional separate support document attachment to the license application.
