
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### Supplement No. 3 to Part 748 - Statement by Ultimate Consignee and Purchaser Content Requirements
####### Form BIS-711.,http://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/component/rsform/form/21-request-bis-forms?task=forms.edit.

(b)Form BIS-711 is available atInstructions on completing Form BIS-711 are described below. The ultimate consignee and purchaser may sign a legible copy of Form BIS-711. It is not necessary to require the ultimate consignee and purchaser to sign an original Form BIS-711, provided all information contained on the copy is legible. All information must be typed or legibly printed in each appropriate Block or Box.

(1) Block 1: Ultimate Consignee. The Ultimate Consignee must be the person abroad who is actually to receive the material for the disposition stated in Block 2. A bank, freight forwarder, forwarding agent, or other intermediary is not acceptable as the Ultimate Consignee.

(2) Block 2: Disposition or Use of Items by Ultimate Consignee named in Block 1. Place an (X) in "A.," "B.," "C.," "D.," and "E.," as appropriate, and fill in the required information.

(3) Block 3: Nature of Business of Ultimate Consignee named in Block 1. Complete both "A" and "B". Possible choices for "A" include: broker, distributor, fabricator, manufacturer, wholesaler, retailer, value added reseller, original equipment manufacturer, etc. Possible choices for "B" include: contractual, franchise, distributor, wholesaler, continuing and regular individual business, etc.

(4) Block 4: Additional Information. Provide any other information not appearing elsewhere on the form such as other parties to the transaction, and any other material facts that may be of value in considering license applications supported by this statement.

(5) Block 5: Assistance in Preparing Statement. Name all persons, other than employees of the ultimate consignee or purchaser, who assisted in the preparation of this form.

(6) Block 6: Ultimate Consignee. Enter the requested information and sign the statement digitally or in ink. (For a definition of ultimate consignee, see ยง 748.5(e) of this part.)

(7) Block 7: Purchaser. This form must be signed in ink by the Purchaser, if the Purchaser is not the same as the Ultimate Consignee identified in Block 1. (For a definition of purchaser, see ยง 748.5(c) of this part.)

(8) Block 8: Certification for Exporter. This Block must be completed to certify that no correction, addition, or alteration on this form was made subsequent to the signing by the Ultimate Consignee in Block 6 and Purchaser in Block 7.
