
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### Supplement No. 5 to Part 748 - U.S. Import Certificate and Delivery Verification Procedure

The United States participates in an Import Certificate/Delivery Verification procedure. Under this procedure, U.S. importers are sometimes required to provide their foreign suppliers with an U.S. International Import Certificate that is validated by the U.S. Government. This certificate tells the government of the exporter's country that the items covered by the certificate will be imported into the U.S. Economy and will not be reexported except as authorized by U.S. export control regulations. In addition, in some cases, the exporter's government may require a delivery verification. Under this procedure, the U.S. Customs Service validates a certificate confirming that the items have entered the U.S. economy. The U.S. importer must return this certificate to the foreign exporter.

This supplement establishes the procedures and requirements of BIS with respect to both of these programs. Paragraph (a) of this supplement contains the requirements and procedures of the U.S. International Import Certificate procedure. Paragraph (b) of this supplement contains the requirements and procedures of the Delivery Verification procedure.

(a) U.S. International Import Certificates. If you are a U.S. importer, a foreign supplier may request you to obtain a U.S. import certificate. The reason for this request is that the exporter's government requires a U.S. import certificate as a condition to issuing an export license. To obtain such a certificate you will have to fill in and execute the U.S. International Import Certificate form (Form BIS-645P/ATF-4522/DSP-53) and submit it to the U.S. government agency that has jurisdiction over the items you are importing. In doing so, you will be making a representation to the United States Government that you will import the items described in the certificate into the United States or if not so imported, you will not divert, transship or reexport them to another destination with the explicit approval of the U.S. government agency that has jurisdiction over those items. (Representations that items will be entered into the U.S. do not preclude the temporary unloading of items in a foreign trade zone for subsequent entry into the economy of the U.S.) If the items described in the certificate are subject to U.S. Department of Commerce jurisdiction, the Department will validate the certificate and return it to you. You may then send the certificate to your foreign supplier. In this way the government of the exporting country is assured that the items will become subject to the export control laws of the United States.

(1) Items for which the U.S. Department of Commerce issues U.S. International Import Certificates and forms to use. The Department of Commerce issues U.S. International Import Certificates for the following types of items.

(i) Items controlled for National Security reasons. Items under the export licensing jurisdiction of BIS that are identified as controlled for national security reasons on the Commerce Control List (supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR). You will need to submit in triplicate a completed Form BIS-645P/ATF-4522/DSP-53;

(ii) Nuclear equipment and materials. Items subject to the export licensing jurisdiction of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for nuclear equipment and materials. (see 10 CFR part 110). You will need to submit in quadruplicate a completed Form BIS-645P/ATF-4522/DSP-53; and

(iii) Munitions Items. Items listed on the U.S. Munitions List (see 22 CFR part 121) that do not appear on the more limited U.S. Munitions Import List (27 CFR 47.21). You will need to submit in triplicate a completed Form BIS-645P. For triangular transactions (See paragraph (a)(5) of this supplement) involving items on the U.S. Munitions List, you must contact the Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and use Form BIS-645P/ATF-4522/DSP-53. You should contact the Treasury Department, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for items appearing on the U.S. Munitions Import List. You will need to use Form ATF-4522.

(2) Where to submit forms. U.S. International Import Certificates and requests to amend certificates may be presented for validation either in person or by mail at the following locations.

(i) By courier to the Bureau of Industry and Security, Room 2099B, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20230, Attn: Import Certificate Request; or

(ii) In person or by mail at one of the following Department of Commerce U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service District Offices:

(3) U.S. International Import Certificate validity periods. The U.S. International Import Certificate must be submitted to the foreign government within six months from the date of certification by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The expiration of this six-month period in no way affects the responsibility of the importer to fulfill the commitments made in obtaining the certificate. If the certificate is not presented to the government of the exporting country before the expiration of its validity period, the exporter must apply for a new certificate. The original unused U.S. International Import Certificate must be returned to BIS at the address specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this supplement.

(4) Statements on the certificate or amendments are representations to the U.S. Government which continue in effect.

(i) All statements and representations made in a U.S. International Import Certificate or an amendment thereto, will be deemed to be continuing in nature until the transaction described in the certificate is completed and the items are delivered into the economy of the importing country.

(ii) Any change of fact or intention in regard to the transaction described in the certificate shall be promptly disclosed to BIS by the U.S. importer by presentation of an amended certificate. The amended certificate must describe all of the changes and be accompanied by the original certificate bearing the certification of BIS. If the original certificate has been transferred to the foreign exporter, you must, where possible, attempt to obtain the original certificate prior to applying for an amendment. If the original certificate is unobtainable because the foreign exporter has submitted it to the appropriate foreign government, or for any other reason, then you must submit a written statement with your amendment giving the reasons for your failure to submit the original certificate.

(5) Certificates for Triangular transaction (items will not enter the U.S. or applicant is not sure that they will enter the United States).

(i) In accordance with international practice, BIS will, upon request, stamp the certificate with a triangular symbol as notification to the government of the exporting country that the U.S. importer is uncertain whether the items will be imported into the U. S. or knows that the items will not be imported into the U.S., but that, in any case, the items will not be delivered to any other destination except in accordance with the EAR.

(ii) The triangular symbol on a certificate U.S. International Import Certificate is not, in and of itself, an approval by BIS to transfer or sell items to a foreign consignee. Note that a triangular Certificate will not be issued covering foreign excess property sold abroad by the U.S. Department of Defense.

(6) Approval to export items to a foreign consignee prior to delivery under a U.S. International Import Certificate. The written approval of BIS is required before items covered by a U.S. International Import Certificate (whether or not bearing a triangular symbol) may be shipped to a destination other than the U.S. or Canada or sold to a foreign purchaser, and before title to or possession of such items may be transferred to a foreign transferee. This requirement does not apply after the items have been delivered in accordance with the undertaking set forth in the Certificate or if at the time of such shipment, sale, passage of possession or passage of title, a License Exception or a NLR provision of the EAR would authorize the transaction.

(i) If prior approval is required, a letter requesting authorization to release the shipment shall be submitted to BIS at the address listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this supplement.

(ii) The letter must contain the certificate number; date issued; location of the issuing office; names, addresses, and identities of all parties to the complete transaction; and the quantity, dollar value, and description of the items. The letter must be accompanied by the U.S. International Import Certificate, and all other documentation required by the EAR for the item and country of ultimate destination, as identified in part 748 of the EAR. If requirements stated in part 748 of the EAR do not apply to your transaction, you must identify the intended end-use of the items in your letter.

(iii) Where the letter request is approved and is supported by a foreign import certificate, no further approval from BIS is required for the purchaser or transferee to resell or again transfer the items. However, where BIS approves a request that was not supported by a foreign import certificate, the person to whom approval is granted is required to inform the purchaser or transferee, in writing, that the items are to be shipped to the approved destination only and that no other disposition of the items is permitted without the approval of BIS.

(iv) If the transaction is approved, a validated letter of approval will be sent to the U.S. purchaser for retention in his records. Where a DV or other official government confirmation of delivery is required, the letter will so indicate.

(v) If the items covered by a certificate have been imported into a destination other than the U.S. and the foreign exporter of the items requests a Delivery Verification, the person who obtained the certificate must obtain a DV from the person to whom the items were delivered in the actual importing country. (If a DV is unobtainable, other official government confirmation of delivery must be obtained.) The DV or other official government confirmation of delivery must be submitted to BIS together with an explanatory letter giving the U.S. International Import Certificate number, date issued, and location of issuing office. BIS will then issue Form ITA-6008, Delivery Compliance Notice, in two copies, the original of which must be forwarded to the country of origin in order to serve as evidence to the exporting country that the requirements of the U.S. Government have been satisfied with respect to delivery of the items.

(vi) Delivery, sale, or transfer of items to another U.S. purchaser.

(A) Items covered by a U.S. International Import Certificate may not be sold, and title to or possession of such items may not be transferred, to another U.S. purchaser or transferee before the items are delivered to the U.S. (or to an approved foreign destination, as provided by paragraph (a)(5) of this supplement), except in accordance with the provisions described in paragraph (a)(6) of this supplement. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply after the items have been delivered in accordance with the undertaking set forth in the certificate.

(B) Resale or transfer to another U.S. purchaser or transferee requires the prior approval of BIS only in cases where the buyer or transferee is listed in supplement no. 1 to part 766 of the EAR. However, you, as the person who obtained the certificate are required to notify BIS of any change in facts or intentions relating to the transaction, and in all cases you will be held responsible for the delivery of the items in accordance with the EAR. You are required in all cases to secure, prior to sale or transfer, and to retain in your files in accordance with the recordkeeping provisions contained in part 762 of the EAR, written acceptance by the purchaser or transferee of:
