
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### Supplement No. 5 to Part 748 - U.S. Import Certificate and Delivery Verification Procedure
####### intransit

(vii) Reexport or transshipment of items after delivery to U.S. Items imported into the U.S. under the provisions of a U.S. International Import Certificate may not be reexported to any destination under theprovisions of License Exception TMP (see ยง 740.9(b)(1) of the EAR). However, all other provisions of the EAR applicable to items of domestic origin shall apply to the reexport of items of foreign origin shipped to the U.S. under a U.S. International Import Certificate.

(viii) Lost or destroyed U.S. International Import Certificates. If a U.S. International Import Certificate is lost or destroyed, a duplicate copy may be obtained by the person in the U.S. who executed the original U.S. International Import Certificate by submitting to any of the offices listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this supplement new Form BIS-645P/ATF-4522/DSP-53 in the same way as an original request, except that the forms shall be accompanied by a letter detailing the circumstances under which the original certificate was lost or destroyed and certifying:

(A) That the original U.S. International Import Certificate No. ______, dated ______, issued to (name and address of U.S. importer) for import from (foreign exporter's name and address) has been lost or destroyed; and

(B) That if the original U.S. International Import Certificate is found, the applicant agrees to return the original or duplicate of the certificate to the Bureau of Industry and Security.

(ix) Unused U.S. International Import Certificates. If the transaction will not be completed and the U.S. International Import Certificate will not be used, return the certificate for cancellation to BIS at the address listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this supplement.

(b) Delivery Verification Certificate. U.S. importers may be requested by their foreign suppliers to furnish them with a certified Form BIS-647P, Delivery Verification Certificate, covering items imported into the U.S. These requests are made by foreign governments to assure that strategic items shipped to the U.S. are not diverted from their intended destination. In these instances, the issuance of an export license by the foreign country is conditioned upon the subsequent receipt of a Delivery Verification Certificate from the U.S. importer. Accordingly, your compliance with your foreign exporter's request for a Delivery Verification is necessary to ensure your foreign exporter fulfills its government obligations and is able to participate in future transactions with you. Failure to comply may subject your exporter to penalties that may prevent future trade.

(1) The responsibility of a person or firm executing a U.S. International Import Certificate for providing the foreign exporter with confirmation of delivery of the items includes instances where the items are resold or transferred to another U.S. person or firm prior to actual delivery to the U.S. or to an approved foreign destination. The person who executed the U.S. International Import Certificate shall secure in writing from the U.S. purchaser or transferee, and retain in your files in accordance with the recordkeeping provisions stated in part 762 of the EAR:

(i) Acceptance of the obligation to provide the purchaser or transferee with either the Delivery Verification (or other official government confirmation of delivery if a Delivery Verification is unobtainable) or assurance that this document was submitted to BIS; and

(ii) An undertaking that each succeeding U.S. transferee or purchaser will assume the same obligation or assurance. In each case the seller or transferor must transmit to the U.S. purchaser or transferee the U.S. International Import Certificate number covering the export from the foreign country and request that they pass it on to any other U.S. purchasers or transferees.

(2) Completion and certification of Delivery Verification Certificates. If you are requested by your foreign exporter to provide a Delivery Verification, you must obtain Form BIS-647P from a U.S. customs office or one of the offices listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this supplement and complete all blocks (except those below the line titled "To be completed by U.S. Customs Service") on the form. The language used in the block titled "Description of Goods" must describe the items in the same terms as those shown on the applicable U.S. International Import Certificate. Upon completion Form BIS-647P must be presented, in duplicate, to a U.S. customs office. The U.S. customs office will certify Form BIS-647P only where the import is made under a warehouse or consumption entry.

(3) Disposition of certified Delivery Verification Certificates. The importer must send the original certified Delivery Verification Certificate to the foreign exporter or otherwise dispose of it in accordance with the instructions of the exporting country. The duplicate copy will be retained by the U.S. customs office.

(4)(i) Issuance of a U.S. Delivery Compliance Notice in lieu of a Delivery Verification Certificate. If you are requested to provide a Delivery Verification Certificate but do not wish to disclose the name of your customer to the foreign exporter (e.g., in the event that the items are resold or transferred to another person or firm before the items enter the U.S.), you may submit an originally completed Form BIS-647P together with an explanatory letter requesting a Delivery Compliance Notice, to BIS at the address listed in (a)(2)(i) of this supplement.

(ii) BIS will provide you with a notice signifying that the items were imported into the U.S. and that a satisfactory DV has been submitted to BIS. You must then forward the original notice to your foreign exporter for submission to the foreign government. A copy of the notice should be retained in your files in accordance with the recordkeeping provisions stated in part 762 of the EAR.

(5)(i) Lost or destroyed Delivery Verification Certificate. When a Delivery Verification Certificate is lost or destroyed, the U.S. importer must submit a letter to BIS at the address listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this supplement certifying that:

(A) The original Delivery Verification Certificate has been lost or destroyed;

(B) The circumstances under which it was lost or destroyed;

(C) The type of customs entry (warehouse or consumption), entry number, and date of entry; and

(D) The number and date of the related U.S. International Import Certificate.

(ii) BIS will, in applicable cases, notify the exporting government that a Delivery Verification Certificate been issued.

(c) Penalties and sanctions for violations. The enforcement provisions of part 764 and supplement no. 2 to part 736 of the EAR apply to transactions involving imports into the U.S. covered by this supplement and to both foreign and U.S. parties involved in a violation of this supplement. Any provisions of part 764 and supplement no. 2 to part 736 of the EAR which, by their terms, relate to "exports" or "exports from the U.S." are also deemed to apply and extend to imports into the U.S., applications for U.S. International Import Certificates (Forms BIS-645P presented to U.S. Department of Commerce for certification), U.S. International Import Certificates, and Delivery Verification Certificates, described in this supplement. (Applications the documents described in this supplement, are included within the definition of export control documents provided in part 772 of the EAR.) Refer to ยง 764.3 of the EAR for more information.
