
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 748 - APPLICATIONS (CLASSIFICATION, ADVISORY, AND LICENSE) AND DOCUMENTATION
###### Supplement No. 9 to Part 748 - End-User Review Committee Procedures
####### i.e.

(3) In addition to requests submitted pursuant to ยง 748.15, the ERC will also consider candidates for VEU authorization that are identified by the U.S. Government. When the U.S. Government identifies a candidate for VEU authorization, relevant parties (, end-users and exporters or reexporters, when they can be identified) will be notified, before the ERC determines whether VEU authorization is appropriate, as to which end-users have been identified as potential VEU authorization candidates. End-users are not obligated to accept the Government's nomination.

(4) The ERC will make determinations whether to grant VEU authorization to each VEU candidate no later than 30 calendar days after the candidate's complete application is circulated to all ERC agencies. The Committee may request additional information from an applicant or potential validated end-user related to a particular VEU candidate's application. The period during which the ERC is waiting for additional information from an applicant or potential validated end-user is not included in calculating the 30 calendar day deadline for the ERC's determination.

(5) If an ERC agency is not satisfied with the decision of the ERC, that agency may escalate the matter to the Advisory Committee on Export Policy (ACEP). The procedures and time frame for escalating any such matters are the same as those specified for license applications in Executive Order 12981, as amended by Executive Orders 13020, 13026 and 13117 and referenced in ยง 750.4 of the EAR.

(6) A final determination at the appropriate decision-making level to amend the VEU authorization list set forth in supplement no. 7 to this part operates as clearance by all member agencies to publish the amendment in the

(7) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration will communicate the determination on each VEU request to the requesting party and the end-user.
