
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 750 - APPLICATION PROCESSING, ISSUANCE, AND DENIAL
###### ยง 750.4 Procedures for processing license applications.
####### Overview.

(a)(1) All license applications will be resolved or referred to the President no later than 90 calendar days from the date of BIS's registration of the license application. Processing times for the purposes of this section are defined in calendar days. The procedures and time limits described in this part apply to all license applications registered on or after February 4, 1996. The procedures and time limits in effect prior to December 6, 1995 will apply to license applications registered prior to February 4, 1996.

(2) Properly completed license applications will be registered promptly upon receipt by BIS. Registration is defined as the point at which the application is entered into BIS's electronic license processing system. If your application contains deficiencies that prevent BIS from registering your application, BIS will attempt to contact you to correct the deficiencies, however, if BIS is unable to contact you, the license application will be returned without being registered. The specific deficiencies requiring return will be enumerated in a notice accompanying the returned license application. If a license application is registered, but BIS is unable to correct deficiencies crucial to processing the license application, it will be returned without action. The notice will identify the deficiencies and the action necessary to correct the deficiencies. If you decide to resubmit the license application, it will be treated as a new license application when calculating license processing time frames.
