
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 750 - APPLICATION PROCESSING, ISSUANCE, AND DENIAL
###### ยง 750.7 Issuance of licenses.
####### Scope.

(a)(1) Unless limited by a condition set out in a license, the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) authorized by a license is for the item(s), end-use(s), and parties described in the license application and any letters of explanation. The applicant must inform the other parties identified on the license, such as the ultimate consignees and end users, of the license's scope and of the specific conditions applicable to them.

(2) BIS grants licenses in reliance on representations the applicant made or submitted in connection with the license application, letters of explanation, and other documents submitted. Any license obtained in which a false or misleading representation was made, or a material fact was falsified or concealed on the license application, letters of explanation, or any document submitted in connection with the license application, shall be deemed void as of the date of issuance. See ยง 750.8(a) of the EAR, which provides that all licenses are subject to revocation, in whole or in part, without notice. See part 764 of the EAR for other sanctions that may result in the event a violation occurs.

(3) A BIS license authorizing the release of "technology" to an entity also authorizes the release of the same "technology" to the entity's foreign persons who are permanent and regular employees (and who are not proscribed persons) of the entity's facility or facilities authorized on the license, except to the extent a license condition limits or prohibits the release of the "technology" to foreign persons of specific countries or country groups. See ยง 734.20 of the EAR for additional information regarding the release of "technology" authorized by a BIS license.
