
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 754 - SHORT SUPPLY CONTROLS
###### § 754.1 Introduction.
####### Contents.

(b)Specifically, this part deals with the following:

(1) It sets forth the license requirements and licensing policies for commodities that contain the symbol "SS" in the "Reason for Control" part of "License Requirements" section of the applicable Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) identified on the Commerce Control List (supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR). In appropriate cases, it also provides for License Exceptions from the short supply licensing requirements described in this part. The license requirements and policies that are described in this part cover the following:

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) Petroleum products other than crude oil listed in supplement no. 1 to this part, that were produced or derived from the Naval Petroleum Reserves (NPR) or became available for export as a result of an exchange of any NPR-produced or -derived commodities described by the following ECCNs. For specific licensing requirements for these items, see § 754.3 of this part.

(A) ECCN 1C980 (Inorganic chemicals);

(B) ECCN 1C982 (Other petroleum products);

(C) ECCN 1C983 (Natural gas liquids and other natural gas derivatives); and

(D) ECCN 1C984 (Manufactured gas and synthetic natural gas (except when commingled with natural gas and thus subject to export authorization from the Department of Energy).

(iii) Unprocessed western red cedar described by ECCN 1C988 (Western red cedar (thuja plicata) logs and timber, and rough, dressed and worked lumber containing wane). For specific licensing requirements for these items, see § 754.4 of this part.

(iv) Horses exported by sea for slaughter covered by ECCN 0A980 (Horses for export by sea). For specific licensing requirements, see § 754.5 of this part.

(2) It incorporates statutory provisions for the registration of U.S. agricultural commodities for exemption from short supply limitations on export (see § 754.6 of this part); and

(3) It incorporates statutory provisions for the filing and review of petitions seeking the imposition of monitoring or controls on recyclable metallic materials and procedures for related public hearings (see § 754.7 of this part).
