
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 754 - SHORT SUPPLY CONTROLS
###### § 754.4 Unprocessed western red cedar.
####### License Exception for western red cedar (WRC).

(c)(1) Subject to the requirements described in paragraph (c) of this section, License Exception WRC may be used to export without a license unprocessed western red cedar timber harvested from Federal, State and other public lands in Alaska, all private lands, and, lands held in trust for recognized Indian tribes by Federal or State agencies.

(2) Exporters who use License Exception WRC must obtain and retain on file the following documents:

(i) A statement by the exporter (or other appropriate documentation) indicating that the unprocessed western red cedar timber exported under this License Exception was not harvested from State or Federal lands outside the State of Alaska, and did not become available for export through substitution of commodities so harvested or produced. If the exporter did not harvest or produce the timber, the records or statement must identify the harvester or producer and must be accompanied by an identical statement from the harvester or producer. If any intermediate party or parties held title to the timber between harvesting and purchase, the exporter must also obtain such a statement, or equivalent documentation, from the intermediate party or parties and retain it on file.

(ii) A certificate of inspection issued by a third party log scaling and grading organization, approved by the United States Forest Service, that:

(A) Specifies the quantity in cubic meters or board feet, scribner rule, of unprocessed western red cedar timber to be exported; and

(B) Lists each type of brand, tag, and/or paint marking that appears on any log or unprocessed lumber in the export shipment or, alternatively, on the logs from which the unprocessed timber was produced.

(3) The requirements and restrictions described in §§ 740.1 and 740.2 of the EAR that apply to all License Exceptions also apply to the use of License Exception WRC.

(4) A person exporting any item pursuant to this license exception must enter on any required Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing to the Automated Export System (AES) the correct license code that corresponds to "SS-WRC."
