
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 758 - EXPORT CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS AND AUTHORITIES
###### § 758.1 The Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing to the Automated Export System (AES).
####### Exemptions.

(c)A complete list of exemptions from the EEI filing requirement is set forth in the 15 CFR 30.35 through 30.40 of the FTR. Some of these FTR exemptions have elements in common with certain EAR license exceptions. An FTR exemption may be narrower than an EAR license exception. The following references are provided in order to direct you to the FTR exemptions that relate to EAR license exceptions:

(1) License Exception Baggage (BAG), as set forth in § 740.14 of the EAR. See 15 CFR 30.37(x) of the FTR;

(2) License Exception Gift Parcels and Humanitarian Donations (GFT), as set forth in § 740.12 of the EAR. See 15 CFR 30.37(h) of the FTR;

(3) License Exception Aircraft and Vessels (AVS), as set forth in § 740.15 of the EAR. See 15 CFR 30.37(o) (5) of the FTR;

(4) License Exception Governments and International Organizations (GOV), as set forth in § 740.11 of the EAR. See 15 CFR 30.39 and 30.40 of the FTR;

(5) License Exception Technology and Software Under Restriction (TSR), as set forth in § 740.6 of the EAR. See 15 CFR 30.37(f) of the FTR; or

(6) License Exception Temporary Imports, Exports, and Reexports (TMP) "tools of trade", as set forth in § 740.9(a)(1) of the EAR. See 15 CFR 30.37(b) of the FTR.
