
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### ยง 760.3 Exceptions to prohibitions.
####### Compliance with local law.

(g)(1) This exception contains two parts. The first covers compliance with local law with respect to a United States person's activities exclusively within a foreign country; the second covers compliance with local import laws by United States persons resident in a foreign country. Under both parts of this exception, local laws are laws of the host country, whether derived from statutes, regulations, decrees, or other official sources having the effect of law in the host country. This exception is not available for compliance with presumed policies or understandings of policies unless those policies are reflected in official sources having the effect of law.

(2) Both parts of this exception apply only to United States persons resident in a foreign country. For purposes of this exception, a United States person will be considered to be a resident of a foreign country only if he is a bona fide resident. A United States person may be a bona fide resident of a foreign country even if such person's residency is temporary.

(3)(i) Factors that will be considered in determining whether a United States person is a bona fide resident of a foreign country include:

(A) Physical presence in the country;

(B) Whether residence is needed for legitimate business reasons;

(C) Continuity of the residency;

(D) Intent to maintain the residency;

(E) Prior residence in the country;

(F) Size and nature of presence in the country;

(G) Whether the person is registered to do business or incorporated in the country;

(H) Whether the person has a valid work visa; and

(I) Whether the person has a similar presence in both boycotting and non-boycotting foreign countries in connection with similar business activities.

(ii) No one of the factors in paragraph (g)(3) of this section is dispositive. All the circumstances involved will be closely examined to ascertain whether there is, in fact, bona fide residency. Residency established solely for purposes of avoidance of the application of this part, unrelated to legitimate business needs, does not constitute bona fide residency.
