
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### ยง 760.3 Exceptions to prohibitions.
####### Compliance with local import law.

(i)(1) Any United States person who is a bona fide resident of a foreign country, including a boycotting country, may, in importing goods, materials or components into that country, comply or agree to comply with the import laws of that country, provided that:

(i) The items are for his own use or for his use in performing contractual services within that country; and

(ii) In the normal course of business, the items are identifiable as to their source or origin at the time of their entry into the foreign country by:

(a) Uniqueness of design or appearance; or

(b) Trademark, trade name, or other identification normally on the items themselves, including their packaging.

(2) The factors that will be considered in determining whether a United States person is a bona fide resident of a foreign country are those set forth in paragraph (g) of this section. Bona fide residence of a United States company's subsidiary, affiliate, or other permanent establishment in a foreign country does not confer such residence on such United States company. Likewise, bona fide residence of a United States company's employee in a foreign country does not confer such residence on the entire company.

(3) A United States person who is a bona fide resident of a foreign country may take action under this exception through an agent outside the country, but the agent must act at the direction of the resident and not exercise his own discretion. Therefore, if a United States person resident in a boycotting country takes action to comply with a boycotting country's import law with respect to the importation of qualified goods, he may direct his agent in the United States on the action to be taken, but the United States agent himself may not exercise any discretion.

(4) For purposes of this exception, the test that governs whether goods or components of goods are specifically identifiable is identical to the test applied in paragraph (d) of this section on "Compliance With Unilateral and Specific Selection" to determine whether they are identifiable as to their source or origin in the normal course of business.

(5) The availability of this exception for the import of goods depends on whether the goods are intended for the United States person's own use at the time they are imported. It does not depend upon who has title to the goods at the time of importation into a foreign country.

(6) Goods are for the United States person's own use (including the performance of contractual services within the foreign country) if:

(i) They are to be consumed by the United States person;

(ii) They are to remain in the United States person's possession and to be used by that person;

(iii) They are to be used by the United States person in performing contractual services for another;

(iv) They are to be further manufactured, incorporated into, refined into, or reprocessed into another product to be manufactured for another; or

(v) They are to be incorporated into, or permanently affixed as a functional part of, a project to be constructed for another.

(7) Goods acquired to fill an order for such goods from another are not for the United States person's own use. Goods procured for another are not for one's own use, even if the furnishing of procurement services is the business in which the United States person is customarily engaged. Nor are goods obtained for simple resale acquired for one's own use, even if the United States person is engaged in the retail business. Likewise, goods obtained for inclusion in a turnkey project are not for one's own use if they are not customarily incorporated into, or do not customarily become permanently affixed as a functional part of the project.

(8) This part of the local law exception does not apply to the import of services, even when the United States person importing such services is a bona fide resident of a boycotting country and is importing them for his own use. In addition, this exception is available for a United States person who is a bona fide resident of a foreign country only when the individual or entity actually present within that country takes action through the exercise of his own discretion.

(9) Use of this exception will be monitored and continually reviewed to determine whether its continued availability is consistent with the national interest. Its availability may be limited or withdrawn as appropriate. In reviewing the continued availability of this exception, the effect that the inability to comply with local import laws would have on the economic and other relations of the United States with boycotting countries will be considered.

(10) A United States person who is a bona fide resident of a foreign country may comply or agree to comply with the host country's import laws even if he knows or has reason to know that particular laws are boycott-related. However, no United States person may comply or agree to comply with any host country law which would require him to discriminate against any United States person on the basis of race, religion, sex, or national origin, or to supply information about any United States person's race, religion, sex, or national origin.
