
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### § 760.5 Reporting requirements.
####### Scope of reporting requirements.

(a)(1) A United States person who receives a request to take any action which has the effect of furthering or supporting a restrictive trade practice or boycott fostered or imposed by a foreign country against a country friendly to the United States or against any United States person must report such request to the Department of Commerce in accordance with the requirements of this section. Such a request may be either written or oral and may include a request to furnish information or enter into or implement an agreement. It may also include a solicitation, directive, legend or instruction that asks for information or that asks that a United States person take or refrain from taking a particular action. Such a request shall be reported regardless of whether the action requested is prohibited or permissible under this part, except as otherwise provided by this section.

(2) For purposes of this section, a request received by a United States person is reportable if he knows or has reason to know that the purpose of the request is to enforce, implement, or otherwise further, support, or secure compliance with an unsanctioned foreign boycott or restrictive trade practice.

(i) A request received by a United States person located in the United States is reportable if it is received in connection with a transaction or activity in the interstate or foreign commerce of the United States, as determined under § 760.1(d)(1) through (5) and (18) of this part.

(ii) A request received by a United States person located outside the United States (that is, a foreign subsidiary, partnership, affiliate, branch, office, or other permanent foreign establishment which is controlled in fact by any domestic concern, as determined under § 760.1(c) of this part) is reportable if it is received in connection with a transaction or activity in the interstate or foreign commerce of the United States, as determined under § 760.1(d)(6) through (17) and (19) of this part.

(iii) A request such as a boycott questionnaire, unrelated to a particular transaction or activity, received by any United States person is reportable when such person has or anticipates a business relationship with or in a boycotting country involving the sale, purchase or transfer of goods or services (including information) in the interstate or foreign commerce of the United States, as determined under § 760.1(d) of this part.

(3) These reporting requirements apply to all United States persons. They apply whether the United States person receiving the request is an exporter, bank or other financial institution, insurer, freight forwarder, manufacturer, or any other United States person subject to this part.

(4) The acquisition of information about a boycotting country's boycott requirements through the receipt or review of books, pamphlets, legal texts, exporters' guidebooks and other similar publications does not constitute receipt of a reportable request for purposes of this section. In addition, a United States person who receives an unsolicited invitation to bid, or similar proposal, containing a boycott request has not received a reportable request for purposes of this section where he does not respond to the invitation to bid or other proposal.

(5) Because of the use of certain terms for boycott and non-boycott purposes; because of Congressional mandates to provide clear and precise guidelines in areas of inherent uncertainty; and because of the Department's commitment to minimize paperwork and reduce the cost of reporting where it will not impair the Department's ability to continue to monitor foreign boycotts, the following specific requests are not reportable:

(i) A request to refrain from shipping goods on a carrier which flies the flag of a particular country or which is owned, chartered, leased or operated by a particular country or by nationals or residents of a particular country, or a request to certify to that effect.

(ii) A request to ship goods via a prescribed route, or a request to refrain from shipping goods via a proscribed route, or a request to certify to either effect.

(iii) A request to supply an affirmative statement or certification regarding the country of origin of goods.

(iv) A request to supply an affirmative statement or certification regarding the name of the supplier or manufacturer of the goods shipped or the name of the provider of services.

(v) A request to comply with the laws of another country except where the request expressly requires compliance with that country's boycott laws.

(vi) A request to an individual to supply information about himself or a member of his family for immigration, passport, visa, or employment purposes.

(vii) A request to supply an affirmative statement or certification indicating the destination of exports or confirming or otherwise indicating that such cargo will be unloaded or discharged at a particular destination.

(viii) A request to supply a certificate by the owner, master, charterer, or any employee thereof, that a vessel, aircraft, truck or any other mode of transportation is eligible, otherwise eligible, permitted, or allowed to enter, or not restricted from entering, a particular port, country, or group of countries pursuant to the laws, rules, or regulations of that port, country, or group of countries.

(ix) A request to supply a certificate from an insurance company stating that the insurance company has a duly authorized agent or representative within a boycotting country and/or the name and address of such agent.

(x) A request to comply with a term or condition of a transaction that provides that the vendor bear the risk of loss and indemnify the purchaser if the vendor's goods are denied entry into a country for any reason ("risk of loss clause") if such clause was in use by the purchaser prior to January 18, 1978.

(6) No United States person may engage in any transaction or take any other action, either independently or through any other person, with intent to evade the provisions of this part.

(7) From time to time the Department will survey domestic concerns for purposes of determining the worldwide scope of boycott requests received by their controlled foreign subsidiaries and affiliates with respect to their activities outside United States commerce. This pertains to requests which would be reportable under this section but for the fact that the activities to which the requests relate are outside United States commerce. The information requested will include the number and nature of non-reportable boycott requests received, the action(s) requested, the actions(s) taken in response and the countries in which the requests originate. The results of such surveys, including the names of those surveyed, will be made public.
