
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### ยง 760.5 Reporting requirements.
####### Manner of reporting.

(b)(1) Each reportable request must be reported. However, if more than one document (such as an invitation to bid, purchase order, or letter of credit) containing the same boycott request is received as part of the same transaction, only the first such request need be reported. Individual shipments against the same purchase order or letter of credit are to be treated as part of the same transaction. Each different boycott request associated with a given transaction must be reported, regardless of how or when the request is received.

(2) Each United States person actually receiving a reportable request must report that request. However, such person may designate someone else to report on his behalf. For example, a United States company, if authorized, may report on behalf of its controlled foreign subsidiary or affiliates; a freight forwarder, if authorized, may report on behalf of the exporter; and a bank, if authorized, may report on behalf of the beneficiary of a letter of credit. If a person designated to report a request received by another receives an identical request directed to him in connection with the same transaction, he may file one report on behalf of himself and the other person.

(3) Where a person is designated to report on behalf of another, the person receiving the request remains liable for any failure to report or for any representations made on his behalf. Further, anyone reporting on behalf of another is not relieved of his own responsibility for reporting any boycott request which he receives, even if it is an identical request in connection with the same transaction.
