
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### ยง 760.5 Reporting requirements.
####### Disclosure of information.

(c)(1) Reports of requests received on or after October 7, 1976, as well as any accompanying documents filed with the reports, have been and will continue to be made available for public inspection and copying, except for certain proprietary information. With respect to reports of requests received on or after August 1, 1978, if the person making the report certifies that a United States person to whom the report relates would be placed at a competitive disadvantage because of the disclosure of information regarding the quantity, description, or value of any articles, materials, and supplies, including related technical data and other information, whether contained in a report or in any accompanying document(s), such information will not be publicly disclosed except upon failure by the reporting entity to edit the public inspection copy of the accompanying document(s) as provided by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, unless the Secretary of Commerce determines that the disclosure would not place the United States person involved at a competitive disadvantage or that it would be contrary to the national interest to withhold the information. In the event the Secretary of Commerce considers making such a determination concerning competitive disadvantage, appropriate notice and an opportunity for comment will be given before any such proprietary information is publicly disclosed. In no event will requests of reporting persons to withhold any information contained in the report other than that specified in this paragraph be honored.

(2) Because a copy of any document(s) accompanying the report will be made available for public inspection and copying, one copy must be submitted intact and another copy must be edited by the reporting entity to delete the same information which it certified in the report would place a United States person at a competitive disadvantage if disclosed. In addition, the reporting entity may delete from this copy information that is considered confidential and that is not required to be contained in the report (e.g., information related to foreign consignee). This copy should be conspicuously marked with the legend "Public Inspection Copy." With respect to documents accompanying reports received by the Department on or after July 1, 1979, the public inspection copy will be made available as submitted whether or not it has been appropriately edited by the reporting entity as provided by this paragraph.

(3) Reports and accompanying documents which are available to the public for inspection and copying are located in the BIS Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility, Room 4525, Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230. Requests to inspect such documents should be addressed to that facility.

(4) The Secretary of Commerce will periodically transmit summaries of the information contained in the reports to the Secretary of State for such action as the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, may deem appropriate for carrying out the policies in section 8(b)(2) of the Export Administration Act of 1979.
