
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 760 - Interpretations

It has come to the Department's attention that some U.S. persons are being or may be asked to comply with new boycotting country requirements with respect to shipping and insurance certifications and certificates of origin. It has also come to the Department's attention that some U.S. persons are being or may be asked to agree to new contractual provisions in connection with certain foreign government or foreign government agency contracts. In order to maximize its guidance with respect to section 8 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. app. 2407) and part 760 of the EAR, the Department hereby sets forth its views on these certifications and contractual clauses.

ยง 760.2(d) of this part prohibits a U.S. person from furnishing or knowingly agreeing to furnish:

"Information concerning his or any other person's past, present or proposed business relationships:

(i) With or in a boycotted country;

(ii) With any business concern organized under the laws of a boycotted country;

(iii) With any national or resident of a boycotted country; or

(iv) With any other person who is known or believed to be restricted from having any business relationship with or in a boycotting country."

This prohibition, like all others under part 760, applies only with respect to a U.S. person's activities in the interstate or foreign commerce of the United States and only when such activities are undertaken with intent to comply with, further, or support an unsanctioned foreign boycott. (ยง 760.2(d)(5) of this part.)

This prohibition does not apply to the furnishing of normal business information in a commercial context. (ยง 760.2(d)(3) of this part). Normal business information furnished in a commercial context does not cease to be such simply because the party soliciting the information may be a boycotting country or a national or resident thereof. If the information is of a type which is generally sought for a legitimate business purpose (such as determining financial fitness, technical competence, or professional experience), the information may be furnished even if the information could be used, or without the knowledge of the person supplying the information is intended to be used, for boycott purposes. (ยง 760.2(d)(4) of this part).

The new certification requirements and the Department's interpretation of the applicability of part 760 thereto are as follows:
