
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 760 - Interpretations
####### Shipping certificate.

B.A certificate must be appended to the bill of lading stating: (1) Name of vessel; (2) Nationality of vessel; and (3) Owner of vessel, and declaring:

"The undersigned does hereby declare on behalf of the owner, master, or agent of the above-named vessel that said vessel is not registered in the boycotted country or owned by nationals or residents of the boycotted country and will not call at or pass through any boycotted country port enroute to its boycotting country destination.

"The undersigned further declares that said vessel is otherwise eligible to enter into the ports of the boycotting country in conformity with its laws and regulations.

Sworn to before me, this ____ day of _____, 20__. Notary Seal."

It is the Department's position that furnishing a certificate, such as the one set out above, stating: (1) The name of the vessel, (2) The nationality of the vessel, and (3) The owner of the vessel and further declaring that the vessel: (a) Is not registered in a boycotted country, (b) Is not owned by nationals or residents of a boycotted country, and (c) Will not call at or pass through a boycotted country port enroute to its destination in a boycotting country falls within the exception contained in § 760.3(c) for compliance with the import and shipping document requirements of a boycotting country. See § 760.3(c) and examples (vii), (viii), and (ix) thereunder.

It is also the Department's position that the owner, charterer, or master of a vessel may certify that the vessel is "eligible" or "otherwise eligible" to enter into the ports of a boycotting country in conformity with its laws and regulations. Furnishing such a statement pertaining to one's own eligibility offends no prohibition under this part 760. See § 760.2(f), example (xiv).

On the other hand, where a boycott is in force, a declaration that a vessel is "eligible" or "otherwise eligible" to enter the ports of the boycotting country necessarily conveys the information that the vessel is not blacklisted or otherwise restricted from having a business relationship with the boycotting country. See § 760.3(c) examples (vi), (xi), and (xii). Where a person other than the vessel's owner, charterer, or master furnishes such a statement, that is tantamount to his furnishing a statement that he is not doing business with a blacklisted person or is doing business only with non-blacklisted persons. Therefore, it is the Department's position that furnishing such a certification (which does not reflect customary international commercial practice) by anyone other than the owner, charterer, or master of a vessel would fall within the prohibition set forth in § 760.2(d) unless it is clear from all the facts and circumstances that the certification is not required for a boycott reason. See § 760.2(d)(3) and (4). See also part A., "Permissible Furnishing of Information," of Supplement No. 5 to this part.
