
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 760 - Interpretations
####### Insurance certificate.

C.A certificate must be appended to the insurance policy stating: (1) Name of insurance company; (2) Address of its principal office; and (3) Country of its incorporation, and declaring:

"The undersigned, ________, does hereby certify on behalf of the above-named insurance company that the said company has a duly qualified and appointed agent or representative in the boycotting country whose name and address appear below:

Name of agent/representative and address in the boycotting country.

Sworn to before me this ____ day of ______, 20__. Notary Seal."

It is the Department's position that furnishing the name of the insurance company falls within the exception contained in § 760.3(c) for compliance with the import and shipping document requirements of a boycotting country. See § 760.3(c)(1)(v) and examples (v) and (x) thereunder. In addition, it is the Department's position that furnishing a certificate, such as the one set out above, stating the address of the insurance company's principal office and its country of incorporation offends no prohibition under this part 760 unless the U.S. person furnishing the certificate knows or has reason to know that the information is sought for the purpose of determining that the insurance company is neither headquartered nor incorporated in a boycotted country. See § 760.2(d)(1)(i).

It is also the Department's position that the insurer, himself, may certify that he has a duly qualified and appointed agent or representative in the boycotting country and may furnish the name and address of his agent or representative. Furnishing such a statement pertaining to one's own status offends no prohibition under this part 760. See § 760.2(f), example (xiv).

On the other hand, where a boycott is in force, a declaration that an insurer "has a duly qualified and appointed agent or representative" in the boycotting country necessarily conveys the information that the insurer is not blacklisted or otherwise restricted from having a business relationship with the boycotting country. See § 760.3(c), example (v). Therefore, it is the Department's position that furnishing such a certification by anyone other than the insurer would fall within the prohibition set forth in § 760.2(d) unless it is clear from all the facts and circumstances that the certification is not required for a boycott reason. See § 760.2(d)(3) and (4).

The new contractual requirements and the Department's interpretation of the applicability of part 760 thereto are as follows:
