
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### Supplement No. 10 to Part 760 - Interpretation
####### contain no foreign parts.

(b) Certify that goods are of U.S.A. origin and

This term appears periodically on documents from a number of Arab countries. It is the Department's position that the statement is a positive certification of origin and, as such, falls within the exception contained in ยง 760.3(c) of this part for compliance with the import and shipping document requirements of a boycotting country. Even though a negative phrase is contained within the positive clause, the phrase is a non-exclusionary, non-blacklisting statement. In the Department's view, the additional phrase does not affect the permissible status of the positive certificate, nor does it make the request reportable ยง 760.5(a)(5)(iii) of this part.

(c) Legalization of documents by any Arab consulate except Egyptian Consulate permitted.

This term appears from time to time in letters of credit but also may appear in various other trade documents requiring legalization and thus is not prohibited, and a request to comply with the statement is not reportable. Because a number of Arab states do not have formal diplomatic relations with Egypt, they do not recognize Egyptian embassy actions. The absence of diplomatic relations is the reason for the requirement. In the Department's view this does not constitute an unsanctioned foreign boycott or embargo against Egypt under the terms of the Export Administration Act. Thus the term is not prohibited, and a request to comply with the statement is not reportable.
