
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### Supplement No. 11 to Part 760 - Interpretation

ยง 760.5(a)(4) of this part states in part:

"In addition, a United States person who receives an unsolicited invitation to bid, or similar proposal, containing a boycott request has not received a reportable request for purposes of this section where he does not respond to the invitation to bid or other proposal."

The Regulations do not define "unsolicited" in this context. Based on review of numerous situations, the Department has developed certain criteria that it applies in determining if an invitation to bid or other proposal received by a U.S. person is in fact unsolicited.

The invitation is not unsolicited if, during a commercially reasonable period of time preceding the issuance of the invitation, a representative of the U.S. person contacted the company or agency involved for the purpose of promoting business on behalf of the company.

The invitation is not unsolicited if the U.S. person has advertised the product or line of products that are the subject of the invitation in periodicals or publications that ordinarily circulate to the country issuing the invitation during a commercially reasonable period of time preceding the issuance of the invitation.

The invitation is not unsolicited if the U.S. person has sold the same or similar products to the company or agency issuing the invitation within a commercially reasonable period of time before the issuance of the current invitation.

The invitation is not unsolicited if the U.S. person has participated in a trade mission to or trade fair in the country issuing the invitation within a commercially reasonable period of time before the issuance of the invitation.

Under ยง 760.5(a)(4) of this part, the invitation is regarded as not reportable if the U.S. person receiving it does not respond. The Department has determined that a simple acknowledgment of the invitation does not constitute a response for purposes of this rule. However, an acknowledgment that requests inclusion for future invitations will be considered a response, and a report is required.

Where the person in receipt of an invitation containing a boycott term or condition is undecided about a response by the time a report would be required to be filed under the regulations, it is the Department's view that the person must file a report as called for in the Regulations. The person filing the report may indicate at the time of filing that he has not made a decision on the boycott request but must file a supplemental report as called for in the regulations at the time a decision is made (ยง 760.5(b)(6)).
