
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 760 - RESTRICTIVE TRADE PRACTICES OR BOYCOTTS
###### Supplement No. 14 to Part 760 - Interpretation
####### Contractual clause concerning import, customs and boycott laws of a boycotting country.

(a)The following language has appeared in tender documents issued by a boycotting country:

"Supplier declares his knowledge of the fact that the import, Customs and boycott laws, rules and regulations of [name of boycotting country] apply in importing to [name of boycotting country]."

"Supplier declares his knowledge of the fact that under these laws, rules and regulations, it is prohibited to import into [name of the boycotting country] any products or parts thereof that originated in [name of boycotted country]; were manufactured, produced or imported by companies formed under the laws of [name of boycotted country]; or were manufactured, produced or imported by nationals or residents of [name of boycotted country]."

Agreeing to the above contractual language is a prohibited agreement to refuse to do business, under § 760.2(a) of this part. The first paragraph requires broad acknowledgment of the application of the boycotting country's boycott laws, rules and regulations. Unless this language is qualified to apply only to boycott restrictions with which U.S. persons may comply, agreement to it is prohibited. See § 760.2(a) of this part, examples (v) and (vi) under "Agreements to Refuse to Do Business."

The second paragraph does not limit the scope of the boycott restrictions referenced in the first paragraph. It states that the boycott laws include restrictions on goods originating in the boycotted country; manufactured, produced or supplied by companies organized under the laws of the boycotted country; or manufactured, produced or supplied by nationals or residents of the boycotted country. Each of these restrictions is within the exception for compliance with the import requirements of the boycotting country (§ 760.3(a) of this part). However, the second paragraph's list of restrictions is not exclusive. Since the boycott laws generally include more than what is listed and permissible under the antiboycott law, U.S. persons may not agree to the quoted clause. For example, a country's boycott laws may prohibit imports of goods manufactured by blacklisted firms. Except as provided by § 760.3(g) of this part, agreement to and compliance with this boycott restriction would be prohibited under the antiboycott law.

The above contractual language is distinguished from the contract clause determined to be permissible in supplement 1, Part II, A, by its acknowledgment that the boycott requirements of the boycotting country apply. Although the first sentence of the Supplement 1 clause does not exclude the possible application of boycott laws, it refers only to the import and customs laws of the boycotting country without mentioning the boycott laws as well. As discussed fully in supplement no. 1 to part 760, compliance with or agreement to the clause quoted there is, therefore, permissible.

The contract clause quoted above, as well as the clause dealt with in supplement no. 1 to part 760, part II, A, is reportable under § 760.5(a)(1) of this part.
