
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 764 - ENFORCEMENT AND PROTECTIVE MEASURES
###### ยง 764.3 Sanctions.
####### Denial of export privileges.

(2)An order may be issued that restricts the ability of the named persons to engage in exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) involving items subject to the EAR, or that restricts access by named persons to items subject to the EAR. An order denying export privileges may be imposed either as a sanction for a violation of ECRA, the EAR, or any other statute set forth at 50 U.S.C. 4819(e)(1)(B); or as a protective administrative measure described in ยง 764.6(c) or (d) of this part. An order denying export privileges may suspend or revoke any or all outstanding licenses issued under the EAR to a person named in the denial order or in which such person has an interest; may deny or restrict exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) by or to such person of any item subject to the EAR; and may restrict dealings in which that person may benefit from any export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of such items. The standard terms of a denial order are set forth in supplement no. 1 to this part. A non-standard denial order, narrower in scope, may be issued. Authorization to engage in actions otherwise prohibited by a denial order may be given by the Office of Exporter Services, in consultation with the Office of Export Enforcement, upon a written request by a person named in the denial order or by a person seeking permission to deal with a named person. Submit such requests to: Bureau of Industry and Security, Office of Exporter Services, Room 2099b, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20230.
