
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 764 - ENFORCEMENT AND PROTECTIVE MEASURES
###### ยง 764.5 Voluntary self-disclosure.
####### Narrative account.

(3)After the initial notification, a thorough review should be conducted of all export-related transactions where possible violations are suspected. OEE recommends that the review cover a period of five years prior to the date of the initial notification. If your review goes back less than five years, you risk failing to discover violations that may later become the subject of an investigation. Any violations not voluntarily disclosed do not receive consideration under this section. However, the failure to make such disclosures will not be treated as a separate violation unless some other section of the EAR or other provision of law requires disclosure. Upon completion of the review, OEE should be furnished with a narrative account that sufficiently describes the suspected violations so that their nature and gravity can be assessed. The narrative account should also describe the nature of the review conducted and measures that may have been taken to minimize the likelihood that violations will occur in the future. The narrative account should include:

(i) The kind of violation involved, for example, a shipment without the required license or dealing with a party denied export privileges;

(ii) An explanation of when and how the violations occurred;

(iii) The complete identities and addresses of all individuals and organizations, whether foreign or domestic, involved in the activities giving rise to the violations;

(iv) License numbers;

(v) The description, quantity, value in U.S. dollars and ECCN or other classification of the items involved; and

(vi) A description of any mitigating circumstances.
