
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 764 - ENFORCEMENT AND PROTECTIVE MEASURES
###### ยง 764.5 Voluntary self-disclosure.
####### Treatment of unlawfully exported items after voluntary self-disclosure.

(f)(1) Any person taking certain actions with knowledge that a violation of the EAA or the EAR has occurred has violated ยง 764.2(e) of this part. Any person who has made a voluntary self-disclosure knows that a violation may have occurred. Therefore, at the time that a voluntary self-disclosure is made, the person making the disclosure may request permission from BIS to engage in the activities described in ยง 764.2(e) of this part that would otherwise be prohibited. If the request is granted by the Office of Exporter Services in consultation with OEE, future activities with respect to those items that would otherwise violate ยง 764.2(e) of this part will not constitute violations. However, even if permission is granted, the person making the voluntary self-disclosure is not absolved from liability for any violations disclosed nor relieved of the obligation to obtain any required reexport authorizations.

(2) A license to reexport items that are the subject of a voluntary self-disclosure, and that have been exported contrary to the provisions of the EAA or the EAR, may be requested from BIS in accordance with the provisions of part 748 of the EAR. If the applicant for reexport authorization knows that the items are the subject of a voluntary self-disclosure, the request should state that a voluntary self-disclosure was made in connection with the export of the commodities for which reexport authorization is sought.
