
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 8b - PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATION AGAINST THE HANDICAPPED IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OPERATED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 8b.8 Notice.

(a) A recipient, other than a small recipient, shall take appropriate initial and continuing steps to notify participants, beneficiaries, applicants and employees, including those with impaired vision or hearing, and unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient, that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in violation of Section 504 and of this part. The notification shall state, where appropriate, that the recipient does not discriminate in the admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its programs or activities. The notification shall also include an identification of the responsible employee designated pursuant to ยง 8b.7(a). A recipient shall make the initial notification required by this paragraph within 90 days of the effective date of this part. Methods of initial and continuing notification may include the posting of notices, publications in newspapers and magazines, placement of notices in recipient's publications, and distribution of memoranda or other written communication. A recipient shall take appropriate steps to ensure that notice is available to persons with impaired vision or hearing.

(b) If a recipient publishes or uses recruitment materials or publications containing general information made available to participants, beneficiaries, applicants, or employees, it shall include in those materials or publications a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section. A recipient may meet the requirement of this paragraph either by including appropriate inserts in existing materials and publications, or by revising and reprinting the materials and publications.
