
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 766 - ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS
###### § 766.23 Related persons.
####### Appeals.

(c)Any person named by BIS in an order as related to the respondent may appeal that action. The sole issues to be raised and ruled on in any such appeal are whether the person so named is related to the respondent and whether the order is justified in order to prevent evasion.

(1) A person named as related to the respondent in an order issued pursuant to § 766.25 may file an appeal with the Under Secretary for Industry and Security pursuant to part 756 of the EAR.

(2) A person named as related to the respondent in an order issued pursuant to other provisions of this part may file an appeal with the administrative law judge.

(i) If the order made applicable to the related person is for a violation related to part 760 of the EAR, the related person may file an appeal with the administrative law judge. The related person may appeal the initial decision and order of the administrative law judge to the Under Secretary in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 766.21.

(ii) If the order made applicable to the related person is issued pursuant to § 766.24 of this part to prevent an imminent violation, the recommended decision and order of the administrative law judge shall be reviewed by the Under Secretary in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 766.24(e) of this part.

(iii) If the order made applicable to the related person is for a violation of the EAR not related to part 760 of the EAR and not issued pursuant to § 766.24 of this part, the recommended decision and order of the administrative law judge shall be reviewed by the Under Secretary in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 766.22 of this part.
