
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 766 - ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS
###### ยง 766.24 Temporary denials.
####### Hearing.

(3)(i) A respondent may oppose renewal of a temporary denial order by filing with the Assistant Secretary a written submission, supported by appropriate evidence, to be received not later than seven days before the expiration date of such order. For good cause shown, the Assistant Secretary may consider submissions received not later than five days before the expiration date. The Assistant Secretary ordinarily will not allow discovery; however, for good cause shown in respondent's submission, he/she may allow the parties to take limited discovery, consisting of a request for production of documents. If requested by the respondent in the written submission, the Assistant Secretary shall hold a hearing on the renewal application. The hearing shall be on the record and ordinarily will consist only of oral argument. The only issue to be considered on BIS's request for renewal is whether the temporary denial order should be continued to prevent an imminent violation as defined herein.

(ii) Any person designated as a related person may not oppose the issuance or renewal of the temporary denial order, but may file an appeal in accordance with ยง 766.23(c) of this part.

(iii) If no written opposition to BIS's renewal request is received within the specified time, the Assistant Secretary may issue the order renewing the temporary denial order without a hearing.

(4) A temporary denial order may be renewed more than once.
