
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 768 - FOREIGN AVAILABILITY DETERMINATION PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA
###### ยง 768.4 Initiation of an assessment.
####### Denied license assessment.

(b)A claimant whose license application BIS has denied, or for which it has issued a letter of intent to deny on national security grounds, may request that BIS initiate a denied license assessment by submitting a Foreign Availability Submission (FAS) within 90 days after denial of the license. As part of its submission, the claimant must request that the specified license application be approved on the grounds of foreign availability. The evidence must relate to the particular export as described on the license application and to the alleged comparable item. If foreign availability is found, the Secretary will approve the license for the specific items, countries, and quantities listed on the application. The denied license assessment procedure, however, is not intended to result in the removal of the U.S. export control on an item by incrementally providing a country with amounts that, taken together, would constitute a sufficient quantity of an item. The Secretary will not approve on foreign availability grounds a denied license if the approval of such license would itself render the U.S. export control ineffective in achieving its purpose. In the case of a positive determination, the Secretary will determine whether a decontrol assessment is warranted. If so, then BIS will initiate a decontrol assessment.
