
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 768 - FOREIGN AVAILABILITY DETERMINATION PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA
###### ยง 768.5 Contents of foreign availability submissions and Technical Advisory Committee certifications.

(a) All foreign availability submissions must contain, in addition to information on product or technology alleged to be available from foreign sources, at least:

(1) The name of the claimant;

(2) The claimant's mailing and business address;

(3) The claimant's telephone number; and

(4) A contact point and telephone number.

(b) Foreign availability submissions and TAC certifications should contain as much evidence as is available to support the claim, including, but not limited to:

(1) Product names and model designations of the items alleged to be comparable;

(2) Extent to which the alleged comparable item is based on U.S. technology;

(3) Names and locations of the non-U.S. sources and the basis for claiming that the item is a non-U.S. source item;

(4) Key performance elements, attributes, and characteristics of the items on which a qualitative comparison may be made;

(5) Non-U.S. source's production quantities and/or sales of the alleged comparable items and marketing efforts;

(6) Estimated market demand and the economic impact of the control;

(7) Product names, model designations, and value of U.S. controlled parts and components incorporated in the items alleged to be comparable; and

(8) The basis for the claim that the item is available-in-fact to the country or countries for which foreign availability is alleged.

(c) Supporting evidence of foreign availability may include, but is not limited to, the following:

(1) Foreign manufacturers' catalogs, brochures, operation or maintenance manuals;

(2) Articles from reputable trade and technical publications;

(3) Photographs;

(4) Depositions based on eyewitness accounts; and

(5) Other credible evidence.

(d) Upon receipt of a FAS or TAC certification, BIS will review it to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to support the belief that foreign availability may exist. If BIS determines the FAS or TAC certification is lacking in supporting evidence, BIS will seek additional evidence from appropriate sources, including the claimant or TAC. BIS will initiate the assessment when it determines that it has sufficient evidence that foreign availability may exist. Claimant and TAC certified assessments will be deemed to be initiated as of the date of such determination.

(e) Claimants and TACs are advised to review the foreign availability assessment criteria described in ยง 768.6 of this part and the examples of evidence described in supplement no. 1 to part 768 when assembling supporting evidence for inclusion in the FAS or TAC certification.
