
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 768 - FOREIGN AVAILABILITY DETERMINATION PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA
###### ยง 768.7 Procedures.
####### Recommendation and determination.

(d)(1) Upon completion of each assessment, BIS, on the basis of its analysis, will recommend that the Secretary make a determination either that there is or that there is not foreign availability, whichever the evidence supports. The assessment upon which BIS bases its recommendation will accompany the recommendation to the Secretary.

(2) BIS will recommend on the basis of its analysis that the Secretary determine that foreign availability exists to a country when the available evidence demonstrates that an item of comparable quality is available-in-fact to the country, from non-U.S. sources, in sufficient quantity so that continuation of the existing national security export control, or denial of the license application in question on national security grounds, would be ineffective in achieving its purpose. For a controlled country, such control or denial is "ineffective" when comparable items are available-in-fact from foreign sources in sufficient quantities so that maintaining such control or denying a license would not be effective in restricting the availability of items that would make a significant contribution to the military potential of any country or combination of countries detrimental to the national security of the United States.

(3) The Secretary will make the determination of foreign availability on the basis of the BIS assessment and recommendation; the Secretary's determination will take into account the evidence provided to BIS, the recommendations of the Secretaries of Defense and State and any other interested agencies, and any other information that the Secretary considers relevant.

(4) For all decontrol and denied license assessments (under section 5(f)(3) of the EAA) initiated by a FAS, the Secretary will make a determination within 4 months of the initiation of the assessment and will notify the claimant. The Secretary will submit positive determinations for review to the appropriate departments and agencies.

(5) The deadlines for determinations based on self-initiated and TAC-initiated assessments are different from the deadlines for claimant-initiated assessments (see paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section).
