
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 768 - FOREIGN AVAILABILITY DETERMINATION PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA
###### ยง 768.7 Procedures.
####### Negotiations to eliminate foreign availability.

(i)(1) The President may determine that an export control must be maintained notwithstanding the existence of foreign availability. Such a determination is called a National Security Override (NSO) and is based on the President's decision that the absence of the control would prove detrimental to the United States national security. Unless extended (as described in paragraph (i)(7) of this section), an NSO is effective for 6 months. Where the President invokes an NSO, the U.S. Government will actively pursue negotiations with the government of any source country during the 6 month period to eliminate the availability.

(2) There are two types of National Security Overrides:

(i) An NSO of a determination of foreign availability resulting from an assessment initiated pursuant to section 5(f) of the EAA (claimant and self-initiated assessments); and

(ii) An NSO of a determination of foreign availability resulting from an assessment initiated pursuant to section 5(h) of the EAA (TAC-certification assessments).

(3) For an NSO resulting from an assessment initiated under section 5(f) of the EAA, the Secretary of any agency may recommend that the President exercise the authority under the EAA to retain the controls or deny the license notwithstanding the finding of foreign availability.

(4) For an NSO resulting from an assessment initiated under section 5(h) of the EAA, the Secretary of Commerce may recommend that the President exercise the authority under the EAA to retain the controls notwithstanding the finding of foreign availability.

(5) Under an NSO resulting from an assessment initiated under section 5(f) of the EAA, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives will be notified of the initiation of the required negotiations. The notice will include an explanation of the national security interest that necessitates the retention of controls.

(6) Under an NSO resulting from an assessment initiated under section 5(f) of the EAA, BIS will publish notices in theconsisting of:

(i) The Secretary's determination of foreign availability;

(ii) The President's decision to exercise the NSO;

(iii) A concise statement of the basis for the President's decision; and

(iv) An estimate of the economic impact of the decision.

(7) The 6 month effective period for an NSO may be extended up to an additional 12 months if, prior to the end of the 6 months, the President certifies to Congress that the negotiations are progressing, and determines that the absence of the controls would continue to be detrimental to the United States national security.

(8) After the conclusion of negotiations, BIS will retain the control only to the extent that foreign availability is eliminated. If foreign availability is not eliminated, BIS will decontrol the item by removing the requirement for a license for the export of the item to the destinations covered by the assessment. To the extent that the negotiations are successful and the foreign availability is eliminated, BIS will remove the license requirement for the export of the item to any country that has agreed to eliminate foreign availability.
