
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 768 - FOREIGN AVAILABILITY DETERMINATION PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA
###### ยง 768.8 Eligibility of expedited licensing procedures for non-controlled countries.

(a) BIS determines the eligibility of an item for expedited licensing procedures on the basis of an evaluation of the foreign availability of the item. Eligibility is specific to the items and the countries to which they are found to be available.

(b) BIS will initiate an eligibility evaluation:

(1) On its own initiative;

(2) On receipt of a FAS; or

(3) On receipt of a TAC certification.

(c) Upon initiation of an eligibility evaluation following receipt of either a FAS or TAC certification, BIS will notify the claimant or TAC of the receipt and initiation of an evaluation and publish anotice of the initiation of the evaluation.

(d) The criteria for determining eligibility for expedited licensing procedures are:

(1) The item must be available-in-fact to the specified

non-controlled country from a foreign source;

(2) The item must be of a quality similar to that of the U.S.-controlled item; and

(3) The item must be available-in-fact to the specified non-controlled country without effective restrictions.

(e) Within 30 days of initiation of the evaluation, the Secretary of Commerce will make a determination of foreign availability on the basis of the BIS evaluation and recommendation, taking into consideration the evidence the Secretaries of Defense, State, and other interested agencies provide to BIS and any other information that the Secretary considers relevant.

(f) Within 30 days of the receipt of the FAS or TAC certification, BIS will publish the Secretary's determination in thethat the item will or will not be eligible for expedited licensing procedures to the stated countries and, where appropriate, amend supplement no. 2 to part 768.

(g) Following completion of a self-initiated evaluation, BIS will be notified of the Secretary's determination and, where appropriate, supplement no. 2 to part 768 will be amended.

(h) Foreign availability submissions and TAC certifications to initiate an expedited licensing procedure evaluation must be clearly designated on their face as a request for expedited licensing procedure and must specify the items, quantities and countries alleged eligible. Submissions and certifications should be sent to: Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, Room H-1093, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230.
