
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 768 - FOREIGN AVAILABILITY DETERMINATION PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 768 - Evidence of Foreign Availability

This supplement provides a list of examples of evidence that the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) has found to be useful in conducting assessments of foreign availability. A claimant submitting evidence supporting a claim of foreign availability should review this list for suggestions as evidence is collected. Acceptable evidence indicating possible foreign availability is not limited to these examples, nor is any one of these examples, usually, in and of itself, necessarily sufficient to meet a foreign availability criterion. A combination of several types of evidence for each criterion usually is required. A Foreign Availability Submission (FAS) should include as much evidence as possible on all four of the criteria listed below. BIS combines the submitted evidence with the evidence that it collects from other sources. BIS evaluates all evidence, taking into account factors that may include, but are not limited to: Information concerning the source of the evidence, corroborative or contradictory indications, and experience concerning the reliability or reasonableness of such evidence. BIS will assess all relevant evidence to determine whether each of the four criteria has been met. Where possible, all information should be in writing. If information is based on third party documentation, the submitter should provide such documentation to BIS. If information is based on oral statements a third party made, the submitter should provide a memorandum of the conversation to BIS if the submitter cannot obtain a written memorandum from the source. BIS will amend this informational list as it identifies new examples of evidence.

(a) Examples of evidence of foreign availability:

The following are intended as examples of evidence that BIS will consider in evaluating foreign availability. BIS will evaluate all evidence according to the provisions in ยง 768.7(c) of this part in order for it to be used in support of a foreign availability determination. This list is illustrative only.
