
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 772 - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS
###### ยง 772.1 Definitions of terms as used in the Export Administration Regulations (EAR).
####### Advisory Committee on Export Policy (ACEP).

The ACEP voting members include the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration, and Assistant Secretary-level representatives from the Departments of State, Defense, Justice (for encryption exports), Energy, and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. The appropriate representatives of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of the Nonproliferation Center of the Central Intelligence Agency are non-voting members. The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration is the Chair. Appropriate acting Assistant Secretary, Deputy Assistant Secretary or equivalent strength of any agency or department may serve in lieu of the Assistant Secretary of the concerned agency or department. Such representatives, regardless of rank, will speak and vote on behalf of their agencies or departments. The ACEP may invite Assistant Secretary-level representatives of other Government agencies or departments (other than those identified above) to participate in the activities of the ACEP when matters of interest to such agencies or departments are under consideration. Decisions are made by majority vote.
