
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List

a. Non-automatic and semi-automatic firearms equal to .50 caliber (12.7 mm) or less.

b. Non-automatic and non-semi-automatic rifles, carbines, revolvers or pistols with a caliber greater than .50 inches (12.7 mm) but less than or equal to .72 inches (18.0 mm).

c. The following types of "parts" and "components" if "specially designed" for a commodity controlled by paragraph .a or .b of this entry, or USML Category I (unless listed in USML Category I(g) or (h)): Barrels, cylinders, barrel extensions, mounting blocks (trunnions), bolts, bolt carriers, operating rods, gas pistons, trigger housings, triggers, hammers/striker, sears, disconnectors, pistol grips that contain fire control "parts" or "components" (e.g., triggers, hammers/striker, sears, disconnectors) and buttstocks that contain fire control "parts" or "components."

d. Detachable magazines with a capacity of 17 to 50 rounds "specially designed" for a commodity controlled by paragraph .a or .b of this entry.

e. Receivers (frames) and "complete breech mechanisms," including castings, forgings, stampings, or machined items thereof, "specially designed" for a commodity controlled by paragraph .a or .b of this entry.

f. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts" and "components" that are "specially designed" for a commodity classified under paragraphs .a through .c of this entry or the USML and not elsewhere specified on the USML or CCL.

y. Specific "parts," "components," "accessories" and "attachments" "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in this ECCN or common to a defense article in USML Category I and not elsewhere specified in the USML or CCL as follows, and "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" therefor.

y.1. Stocks (including adjustable, collapsible, blades and braces), grips, handguards, or forends, that do not contain any fire control "parts" or "components" (e.g., triggers, hammers/striker, sears, disconnectors);

y.2 to y.5. [Reserved]

y.6. Bayonets; and

y.7. Firearms manufactured from 1890 to 1898 and reproductions thereof.

a. Telescopic sights.

b. Holographic sights.

c. Reflex or "red dot" sights.

d. Reticle sights.

e. Other sighting devices that contain optical elements.

f. Laser aiming devices or laser illuminators "specially designed" for use on firearms, and having an operational wavelength exceeding 400 nm but not exceeding 710 nm.

g. Lenses, other optical elements and adjustment mechanisms for articles in paragraphs .a, .b, .c, .d, .e, or .i.

h. [Reserved]

i. Riflescopes that were not "subject to the EAR" as of March 8, 2020 and are "specially designed" for use in firearms that are "subject to the ITAR."

a. Ammunition for firearms controlled by ECCN 0A501 or USML Category I and not enumerated in paragraph .b, .c, or .d of this entry or in USML Category III.

b. Buckshot (No. 4 .24" diameter and larger, any material) shotgun shells and shotgun shells that contain only, or are for the dispersion of chemical irritants.

c. Shotgun shells (including less than lethal rounds) that do not contain buckshot; and "specially designed" "parts" and "components" of shotgun shells.

d. Blank ammunition for firearms controlled by ECCNs 0A501 or 0A502 and not enumerated in USML Category III.

e. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts" and "components" that are "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in this ECCN or a defense article in USML Category III and not elsewhere specified on the USML or the CCL.

0A521 commodities are subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under ยง 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0A521. The list of commodities determined to be classified under ECCN 0A521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0A521 are set forth in ยง 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.

a. Guns and armament manufactured between 1890 and 1919.

b. Military flame throwers with an effective range less than 20 meters.

c. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts" and "components" that are "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in paragraphs .a or .b of this ECCN or a defense article in USML Category II and not elsewhere specified on the USML or the CCL.

b. Military explosive excavating devices.

c. Smoke hand grenades and stun hand grenades (e.g., "flashbangs") not controlled by ECCN 1A984.

d. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in paragraphs .a through .c of this ECCN, or for a defense article controlled under USML Category IV, and not specified elsewhere on the USML.

a. Ground vehicles, whether manned or unmanned, "specially designed" for a military use and not enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category VII.

b. Other ground vehicles, "parts" and "components," as follows:

b.1. Unarmed vehicles that are derived from civilian vehicles and that have all of the following:

b.1.a. Manufactured or fitted with materials or "components" other than reactive or electromagnetic armor to provide ballistic protection equal to or better than level III (National Institute of Justice standard 0108.01, September 1985) or "equivalent standards";

b.1.b. A transmission to provide drive to both front and rear wheels simultaneously, including those for vehicles having additional wheels for load bearing purposes whether driven or not;
