
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### e.g.,

y.5. Bearings (ball, roller, wheel);

y.6. Cables, cable assembles, and connectors;

y.7. Cooling system hoses;

y.8. Hydraulic, fuel, oil, and air filters, not controlled by ECCN 1A004;

y.9. Gaskets and o-rings;

y.10. Hydraulic system hoses, fittings, couplings, adapters, and valves;

y.11. Latches and hinges;

y.12. Lighting systems, fuses, and "components;"

y.13. Pneumatic hoses, fittings, adapters, couplings, and valves;

y.14. Seats, seat assemblies, seat supports, and harnesses;

y.15 Tires, except run flat; and

y.16 Windows, except those for armored vehicles.

b. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories" "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity controlled by this entry or an article enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category IX, and not specified elsewhere on the USML.

a. [Reserved]

b. Concealment and deception equipment "specially designed" for military application, including special paints, decoys, smoke or obscuration equipment and simulators, and "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" therefor, not controlled by USML Category XIII.

c. Ferries, bridges not described in ECCN 0A606 or USML Category VII, and pontoons, "specially designed" for military use.

d. Test models "specially designed" for the "development" of defense articles controlled by USML Categories IV, VI, VII and VIII.

e. [Reserved]

f. "Metal embrittlement agents."

g. through x. [Reserved]

y. Other commodities as follows, and "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" therefore:

y.1. Construction equipment "specially designed" for military use, including such equipment "specially designed" for transport in aircraft controlled by USML VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a.

y.2. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" for commodities in paragraph .y.1 of this entry, including crew protection kits used as protective cabs.
