
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### de minimis,or

a.2. Incorporate more than aamount of U.S.-origin "600 series" controlled content (see § 734.4 of the EAR);

a.3. Are direct products of U.S.-origin "600 series" technology or software (see § 734.9(d) of the EAR).

b. [Reserved]

b. Electric chairs for the purpose of executing human beings.

c. Air tight vaults designed for the execution of human beings by the administration of a lethal gas or substance.

d. Automatic drug injection systems designed for the execution of human beings by administration of a lethal substance.

b. Hydraulic fracturing items, as follows:

b.1. Hydraulic fracturing design and analysis software and data.

b.2. Hydraulic fracturing 'proppant,' 'fracking fluid,' and chemical additives therefor.

b.3. High pressure pumps.

b. Reserved.

a. Small arms chambering machines.

b. Small arms deep hole drilling machines and drills therefor.

c. Small arms rifling machines.

d. Small arms boring/reaming machines.

e. Production equipment (including dies, fixtures, and other tooling) "specially designed" for the "production" of the items controlled in 0A501.a through .x. or USML Category I.

a. Production equipment (including tooling, templates, jigs, mandrels, molds, dies, fixtures, alignment mechanisms, and test equipment), not enumerated in USML Category III that are "specially designed" for the "production" of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A505.a or .x or USML Category III.

b. Equipment "specially designed" for the "production" of commodities in ECCN 0A505.b.

c. Equipment "specially designed" for the "production" of commodities in ECCN 0A505.c.

d. Equipment "specially designed" for the "production" of commodities in ECCN 0A505.d.

e. through .w [Reserved]

x. "Parts" and "components" "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in paragraph .a of this entry.

0B521 commodities are subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0B521. The list of commodities determined to be classified under ECCN 0B521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0B521 are set forth in § 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.

a. The following commodities if "specially designed" for the "development" or "production" of commodities enumerated in ECCN 0A602.a or USML Category II:

a.1. Gun barrel rifling and broaching machines and tools therefor;

a.2. Gun barrel rifling machines;

a.3. Gun barrel trepanning machines;

a.4. Gun boring and turning machines;

a.5. Gun honing machines of 6 feet (183 cm) stroke or more;

a.6. Gun jump screw lathes;

a.7. Gun rifling machines; and

a.8. Barrel straightening presses.

b. Jigs and fixtures and other metal-working implements or accessories of the kinds exclusively designed for use in the manufacture of items in ECCN 0A602 or USML Category II.

c. Other tooling and equipment, "specially designed" for the "production" of items in ECCN 0A602 or USML Category II.

d. Test and evaluation equipment and test models, including diagnostic instrumentation and physical test models, "specially designed" for items in ECCN 0A602 or USML Category II.

b. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in paragraph .a of this ECCN.

b. Environmental test facilities "specially designed" for the certification, qualification, or testing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A606 (except for 0A606.b or 0A606.y) or in USML Category VII, and "equipment" "specially designed" therefor.

b. through .w [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories" and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity controlled by ECCN 0B614.

b. [Reserved]

b. Glove boxes suitable for use with radioactive materials.

0C521 materials are subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0C521. The list of materials determined to be classified under ECCN 0C521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0C521 are set forth in § 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.

b. [Reserved]

0D521 software is subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under § 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0D521. The list of software determined to be classified under ECCN 0D521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0D521 are set forth in § 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.

b. [Reserved]

a. "Software" "specially designed" for the "development," "production," operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCNs 0A606 (except for ECCNs 0A606.b or 0A606.y), 0B606, or 0C606.

b. through x. [Reserved]

y. "Specific software" "specially designed" for the "production," "development," operation, or maintenance of commodities described in ECCN 0A606.y.

b. [Reserved]
