
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### STA:

Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (ยง 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any "software" in 0D617.

a. "Software" (other than "software" controlled in paragraph .y of this entry) "specially designed" for the "development," "production," operation or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCNs 0A617 (except 0A617.y), 0B617, or 0C617.

b. to x. [Reserved].

y. Specific "software" "specially designed" for the "production," "development," operation or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A617.y.

b. Software for radiation transport calculations/modeling;

c. Software for hydrodynamic calculations/modeling.

a. "Technology" "required" for the "development" or "production" of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A501 (other than 0A501.y) or 0B501.

b. "Technology" "required" for the operation, installation, maintenance, repair, or overhaul of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A501 (other than 0A501.y) or 0B501.

0E521 technology is subject to RS1 controls with no license exception eligibility other than License Exception GOV for U.S. Government personnel and agencies under ยง 740.11(b)(2)(ii) of the EAR, or an item-specific license exception identified in Supplement No. 5 to part 774 particular to an item covered under ECCN 0E521. The list of technologies determined to be classified under ECCN 0E521 controls is published in Supplement No. 5 to part 774. The license requirements and licensing policy relating to ECCN 0E521 are set forth in ยง 742.6(a)(8) of the EAR.

b. [Reserved]

a. "Technology" "required" for the "development," "production," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 0A606 (except for ECCNs 0A606.b or 0A606.y), 0B606, or 0C606.

b. through x. [Reserved]

y. Specific "technology" "required" for the "development," "production," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul or refurbishing of commodities or software in ECCN 0A606.y or 0D606.y.

b. [Reserved]

a. "Technology" (other than "technology" controlled by paragraph .y of this entry) "required" for the "development," "production," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities or "software" controlled by ECCN 0A617 (except 0A617.y), 0B617, 0C617, or 0D617 (except 0D617.y).

b. through x. [Reserved].

y. Specific "technology" "required" for the "production," "development," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 0A617.y or "software" controlled by 0D617.y.

The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.

b. [Reserved]

See ยง 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.

a. Made from any of the following:
