
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### or

b.1. Hydrogen or helium refrigeration units capable of cooling to 23 K (-250 C) or less, with heat removal capacity greater than 150 watts;

b.2. Hydrogen isotope storage and purification systems using metal hydrides as the storage, or purification medium.

b. Designed for a throughput of hydrogen gas of 1,000 kg/h or greater.

b. Equipment for the separation of lithium isotopes based on the lithium-mercury amalgam process, as follows:

b.1. Packed liquid-liquid exchange columns "specially designed" for lithium amalgams;

b.2. Mercury and/or lithium amalgam pumps;

b.3. Lithium amalgam electrolysis cells;

b.4. Evaporators for concentrated lithium hydroxide solution.

c. Ion exchange systems "specially designed" for lithium isotope separation, and "specially designed" component parts therefor;

d. Chemical exchange systems (employing crown ethers, cryptands, or lariat ethers) "specially designed" for lithium isotope separation, and "specially designed" component parts therefor.

b. Having design elements or features enabling real time or delayed transfer of diagnostic or measurement information.

b. Test facilities and "equipment" "specially designed" for military certification, qualification, or testing of commodities controlled by ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g, .h, or .j or by USML Category XIV(f), except for XIV(f)(1).

c. Tooling and "equipment" "specially designed" for the "development," "production," repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 1A607.e, .f .g, .h, or .j or USML Category XIV(f).

d. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity controlled by ECCN 1B607.b or .c, or for a defense article controlled by USML Category XIV(f), and that are not enumerated or otherwise described elsewhere in the USML.

b. Complete installations "specially designed" for the "development," "production," repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled by ECCN 1C608 or USML Category V and not elsewhere specified on the USML.

c. Environmental test facilities "specially designed" for the certification, qualification, or testing of items controlled by ECCN 1C608 or USML Category V.

d. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories" and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in this ECCN or a defense article in USML Category V and not elsewhere specified on the USML.

b. Plasma pressure compaction (P2C) "equipment" "specially designed" for the "production" of ceramic or composite body armor plates controlled by ECCN 1A613 or USML Category X.

b. Particle accelerators;

c. Industrial process control hardware/systems designed for power industries, n.e.s.;

d. Freon and chilled water cooling systems capable of continuous cooling duties of 100,000 BTU/hr (29.3 kW) or greater;

e. Equipment for the production of structural composites, fibers, prepregs and preforms, n.e.s.

See ยง 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.

a. Materials for absorbing frequencies exceeding 2 x 10Hz but less than 3 x 10Hz.

b. Materials not transparent to visible light and specially designed for absorbing near-infrared radiation having a wavelength exceeding 810 nm but less than 2,000 nm (frequencies exceeding 150 THz but less than 370 THz);

c. Intrinsically conductive polymeric materials with a 'bulk electrical conductivity' exceeding 10,000 S/m (Siemens per meter) or a 'sheet (surface) resistivity' of less than 100 ohms/square, based on any of the following polymers:

c.1. Polyaniline;

c.2. Polypyrrole;

c.3. Polythiophene;
