
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 9 - PROCEDURES FOR A VOLUNTARY LABELING PROGRAM FOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES AND EQUIPMENT TO EFFECT ENERGY CONSERVATION
#### ยง 9.4 Development of voluntary energy conservation specifications.

(a) The Secretary in cooperation with appropriate Federal agencies and in cooperation with affected manufacturers, distributors, retailers, consumers, environmentalists, and other interested parties shall develop proposed Specifications for the specific classes of appliances and equipment covered under ยง 9.3.

(b) Each Specification shall as a minimum include:

(1) A description of the class of appliance or equipment covered by the Specification, listing the distribution of energy efficiencies for that class of appliance or equipment.

(2) Listings or descriptions of test methods to be used in measuring the energy consumption and/or energy efficiency characteristics of the class of appliance or equipment.

(3) A prototype Label and directions for displaying the Label on or with appliances or equipment of that class. The Label shall be prominent, readable, and visible and shall include information that will assist the consumer in comparing by cost or otherwise the energy consumption and/or energy efficiency characteristics of a particular appliance or item of equipment with all others in its class. The Label shall also include the Department of Commerce Energy Conservation Mark specified in ยง 9.7.

(4) Conditions for the participation of manufacturers in the program.

(c) The test methods listed or described in the Specification pursuant to ยง 9.4(b)(2) shall be those described in existing nationally-recognized voluntary standards where such methods are appropriate. Where appropriate test methods do not so exist, they will be developed by the Department of Commerce in cooperation with interested parties.

(d) The Secretary upon development of a proposed Specification shall publish in thea notice giving the complete text of the proposed Specification, and any other pertinent information, and inviting any interested person to submit written comments on the proposed Specification within 30 days after its publication in theunless another time limit is provided by the Secretary. Interested persons wanting to express their views in an informal hearing may do so if, within 15 days after the proposed Specification is published in thethey request the Secretary to hold a hearing. Such informal hearings shall be held so as to give all interested persons opportunity for the oral presentation of data, views, or arguments in addition to the opportunity to make written submissions. Notice of such hearings shall be published in theA transcript shall be kept of any oral presentations.

(e) The Secretary, after consideration of all written and oral comments and other materials received in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, shall publish in thewithin 30 days after the final date for receipt of comments, or as soon as practicable thereafter, a notice either:

(1) Giving the complete text of a final Specification, including conditions of use, and stating that any manufacturer of appliances or equipment in the class concerned desiring voluntarily to use the Label and Energy Conservation Mark with such appliances or equipment must advise the Department of Commerce; or

(2) Stating that the proposed Specification will be further developed before final publication; or

(3) Withdrawing the proposed Specification from further consideration.
