
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### or

b. Glass "fibrous or filamentary materials" having a "specific modulus" of 3.18 x 10m or greater and a "specific tensile strength" of 76.2 x 10m or greater;

c. Thermoset resin impregnated continuous "yarns", "rovings", "tows" or "tapes" with a width no greater than 15 mm (prepregs), made from carbon or glass "fibrous or filamentary materials" controlled by 1C210.a or .b.

(2) Also see ECCN 1C116.

(3) Maraging steel, in physical form and finished products "specially designed" or prepared for use in separating uranium isotopes, is subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (see 10 CFR part 110).

b. A mass greater than 20 kg.

b. Containing less than 10 parts per million by weight of boron.

b. Containing less than 10 parts per million by weight of boron.

b. Containing less than 10 parts per million by weight of silver.

a. Metal windows for X-ray machines, or for bore-hole logging devices;

b. Oxide shapes in fabricated or semi-fabricated forms "specially designed" for electronic component parts or as substrates for electronic circuits;

c. Beryl (silicate of beryllium and aluminum) in the form of emeralds or aquamarines.

a.1. Radionuclides, as follows, appropriate for making neutron sources based on alpha-n reactions:

a.1.a. Actinium 225;

a.1.b. Actinium 227;

a.1.c. Californium 253;

a.1.d. Curium 240;

a.1.e. Curium 241;

a.1.f. Curium 242;

a.1.g. Curium 243;

a.1.h. Curium 244;

a.1.i. Einsteinium 253;

a.1.j. Einsteinium 254;

a.1.k. Gadolinium 148;

a.1.l. Plutonium 236;

a.1.m. Plutonium 238;

a.1.n. Polonium 208;

a.1.o. Polonium 209;

a.1.p. Polonium 210;

a.1.q. Radium 223;

a.1.r. Thorium 227;

a.1.s. Thorium 228;

a.1.t. Uranium 230;
