
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### Phoma glycinicola,Pyrenochaeta glycines

b.12.(formerly) [this fungus is identified on the APHIS "select agents" list (see the Related Controls paragraph for this ECCN), but is not identified on the Australia Group (AG) "List of Plant Pathogens for Export Control"].

c. Viruses, as follows:

c.1. Andean potato latent virus (Potato Andean latent tymovirus);

c.2. Potato spindle tuber viroid.

CW applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for CW reasons. A license is required to export or reexport CWC Schedule 2 chemicals and mixtures identified in 1C355.a to States not Party to the CWC (destinations not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745 of the EAR). A license is required to export CWC Schedule 3 chemicals and mixtures identified in 1C355.b to States not Party to the CWC, unless an End Use Certificate issued by the government of the importing country is obtained by the exporter, prior to export. A license is required to reexport CWC Schedule 3 chemicals and mixtures identified in 1C355.b from a State not Party to the CWC to any other State not Party to the CWC. (See ยง 742.18 of the EAR for license requirements and policies for toxic and precursor chemicals controlled for CW reasons.)

AT applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for AT reasons in 1C350. A license is required, for AT reasons, to export or reexport items controlled by 1C350 to a country in Country Group E:1 of Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. (See part 742 of the EAR for additional information on the AT controls that apply to Iran, North Korea, and Syria. See part 746 of the EAR for additional information on sanctions that apply to Iran, North Korea, and Syria.)

a. CWC Schedule 2 chemicals and mixtures containing Schedule 2 chemicals:

a.1. Toxic chemicals, as follows, and mixtures containing toxic chemicals:

a.1.a. PFIB: 1,1,3,3,3-Pentafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)-1-propene (C.A.S. 382-21-8) and mixtures in which PFIB constitutes more than 1 percent of the weight of the mixture;

a.1.b. [Reserved]

a.2. Precursor chemicals, as follows, and mixtures in which at least one of the following precursor chemicals constitutes more than 10 percent of the weight of the mixture:

a.2.a. Chemicals, except for those listed in Schedule 1, containing a phosphorus atom to which is bonded one methyl, ethyl, or propyl (normal or iso) group but not further carbon atoms.

a.2.b. FAMILY: N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) phosphoramidic dihalides;

a.2.c. FAMILY: Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) N,N-dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr, or i-Pr)-phosphoramidates;

a.2.d. FAMILY: N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethyl-2-chlorides and corresponding protonated salts;

a.2.e. FAMILY: N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethane-2-ols and corresponding protonated salts;

a.2.f. FAMILY: N,N-Dialkyl (Me, Et, n-Pr or i-Pr) aminoethane-2-thiols and corresponding protonated salts.

b. CWC Schedule 3 chemicals and mixtures containing Schedule 3 chemicals:

b.1. Toxic chemicals, as follows, and mixtures in which at least one of the following toxic chemicals constitutes 30 percent or more of the weight of the mixture:

b.1.a. Phosgene: Carbonyl dichloride (C.A.S. 75-44-5);

b.1.b. Cyanogen chloride (C.A.S. 506-77-4);

b.1.c. Hydrogen cyanide (C.A.S. 74-90-8);

b.1.d. Chloropicrin: Trichloronitromethane (CAS 76-06-2).

b.2. Precursor chemicals, as follows, and mixtures in which at least one of the following precursor chemicals constitutes 30 percent or more of the weight of the mixture:

b.2.a. [Reserved];

b.2.b. Methyldiethanolamine (C.A.S. 105-59-9).

CW applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for CW reasons. A license is required for CW reasons, as follows, to States not Party to the CWC (destinations not listed in Supplement No. 2 to part 745 of the EAR): (1) Exports and reexports of mixtures controlled by 1C395.a, (2) exports and reexports of test kits controlled by 1C395.b that contain CWC Schedule 2 chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350, (3) exports of test kits controlled by 1C395.b that contain CWC Schedule 3 chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350, except that a license is not required, for CW reasons, to export test kits containing CWC Schedule 3 chemicals if an End-Use Certificate issued by the government of the importing country is obtained by the exporter prior to export, and (4) reexports from States not Party to the CWC of test kits controlled by 1C395.b that contain CWC Schedule 3 chemicals. (See ยง 742.18 of the EAR for license requirements and policies for toxic and precursor chemicals controlled for CW reasons.)

AT applies to entire entry. The Commerce Country Chart is not designed to determine licensing requirements for items controlled for AT reasons in 1C395. A license is required, for AT reasons, to export or reexport items controlled by 1C395 to a country in Country Group E:1 of Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. (See part 742 of the EAR for additional information on the AT controls that apply to Iran, North Korea, Sudan, and Syria. See part 746 of the EAR for additional information on sanctions that apply to Iran, North Korea, and Syria.)
