
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### not

b. "Medical, analytical, diagnostic, and food testing kits" (as defined in the Related Definitions for this ECCN) that contain CWC Schedule 2 or 3 chemicals controlled by ECCN 1C350.b or .c in an amountexceeding 300 grams per chemical. (For controls on other such test kits containing these and other controlled chemicals, see Note 2 in the Related Controls paragraph of this ECCN.)

a.1. CA (Bromobenzyl cyanide) (CAS 5798-79-8);

a.2. CS (o-Chlorobenzylidenemalononitrile or o-Chlorobenzalmalononitrile) (CAS 2698-41-1);

a.3. CN (Phenylacyl chloride or w-Chloroacetophenone) (CAS 532-27-4);

a.4. CR (Dibenz-(b,f)-1,4-oxazephine) (CAS 257-07-8);

a.5. Adamsite (Diphenylamine chloroarsine or DM) (CAS 578-94-9);

a.6. N-Nonanoylmorpholine, (MPA) (CAS 5299-64-9);

a.7. Dibromodimethyl ether (CAS 4497-29-4);

a.8. Dichlorodimethyl ether (ClCi) (CAS 542-88-1);

a.9. Ethyldibromoarsine (CAS 683-43-2);

a.10. Bromo acetone (CAS 598-31-2);

a.11. Bromo methylethylketone (CAS 816-40-0);

a.12. Iodo acetone (CAS 3019-04-3);

a.13. Phenylcarbylamine chloride (CAS 622-44-6);

a.14. Ethyl iodoacetate (CAS 623-48-3);

b. "Biopolymers," not controlled by USML Category XIV(g) "specially designed" or processed for the detection or identification of chemical warfare agents specified by USML Category XIV(a), and the cultures of specific cells used to produce them.

c. "Biocatalysts," and biological systems therefor, not controlled by USML Category XIV(g) "specially designed" for the decontamination or degradation of chemical warfare agents controlled in USML Category XIV (a), as follows:

c.1. "Biocatalysts" "specially designed" for the decontamination or degradation of chemical warfare agents controlled in USML Category XIV(a) resulting from directed laboratory selection or genetic manipulation of biological systems;

c.2. Biological systems containing the genetic information specific to the production of "biocatalysts" specified by 1C607.c.1, as follows:

c.2.a. "Expression vectors;"
