
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### and

d.1. A molecular beam inlet system that injects a collimated beam of analyte molecules into a region of the ion source where the molecules are ionized by an electron beam;

d.2. One or more cold traps that can be cooled to a temperature of 193 K (-80 &#xB0;C) or less in order to trap analyte molecules that are not ionized by the electron beam;

e. Mass spectrometers equipped with a microfluorination ion source designed for actinides or actinide fluorides.

b. Inductance of less than 20 nH.

a. Electronic "equipment," "end items," and "systems" "specially designed" for a military application that are not enumerated or otherwise described in either a USML category or another "600 series" ECCN.

b.-d. [Reserved]

e. High frequency (HF) surface wave radar that maintains the positional state of maritime surface or low altitude airborne objects of interest in a received radar signal through time.

f. Application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and programmable logic devices (PLD) that are not controlled by paragraph .y of this entry and that are programmed for "600 series" items.

g. Printed circuit boards and populated circuit card assemblies that are not controlled by paragraph .y of this entry and for which the layout is "specially designed" for "600 series" items.

h. Multichip modules that are not controlled by paragraph .y of this entry and for which the pattern or layout is "specially designed" for "600 series" items.

i. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity controlled by this entry or for an article controlled by USML Category XI, and not enumerated or described in any USML category or in any paragraph other than the .x paragraph of another 600 series ECCN or in paragraph .y of this entry.

y. Specific "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in a "600 series" ECCN or a defense article and not elsewhere specified in any paragraph other than the .y paragraph of a "600 series" ECCN or the USML as follows, and "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" therefor:

y.1. Electrical connectors;

y.2. Electric fans;

y.3. Heat sinks;

y.4. Joy sticks;

y.5. Mica paper capacitors;

y.6. Microphones;

y.7. Potentiometers;

y.8. Rheostats;

y.9. Electric connector backshells;

y.10. Solenoids;

y.11. Speakers;

y.12. Trackballs;

y.13. Electric transformers;

y.14. Application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and programmable logic devices (PLD) that are programmed for commodities controlled in the .y paragraph of any "600 series" ECCN;

y.15. Printed circuit boards and populated circuit card assemblies for which the layout is "specially designed" for an item controlled by the .y paragraph of any "600 series" ECCN;

y.16. Multichip modules for which the pattern or layout is "specially designed" for an item in the .y paragraph of a "600 series" ECCN;

y.17. Circuit breakers;

y.18. Ground fault circuit interrupters;

y.19. Electrical contacts;

y.20. Electrical guide pins;

y.21. Filtered and unfiltered mechanical switches;

y.22. Thumbwheels;

y.23. Fixed resistors;

y.24. Electrical jumpers;

y.25. Grounding straps;

y.26. Indicator dials;

y.27. Contactors;

y.28. Touchpads;

y.29. Mechanical caps;

y.30. Mechanical plugs;

y.31. Finger barriers;

y.32. Flip-guards;

y.33. Identification plates and nameplates;

y.34. Knobs;

y.35. Hydraulic, pneumatic, fuel and lubrication gauges.


