
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 12 - FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING
#### ยง 12.3 Development of voluntary product standards.
##### Determination that voluntary product standard will not be published.

(b)(1) If a voluntary product standard has not been developed within one year from the date on which participation was invited, the Secretary may conclude that a voluntary product standard will not likely be published. Upon reaching such a conclusion, the Secretary will publish a proposed determination that a voluntary product standard will not be published.

(2) Within 60 days after publication of the proposed determination, any interested party may submit in writing comments, data, arguments, views, or other information relevant to the proposed determination. All written submissions shall be made a part of the public record.

(3) Within 30 days after the proposed determination has been published, any interested party may request in writing an oral hearing to present his views. The granting of such a hearing shall be at the discretion of the Secretary. Any such hearing shall be public and notice thereof shall be published at least 15 days in advance. A transcript of the hearing shall be made part of the public record.

(4) As soon as practicable following the conclusion of the proceedings described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, the Secretary shall either publish a final determination that a voluntary product standard will not be published, or he shall publish a notice withdrawing his proposed determination under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. In no event shall the withdrawal of a proposed determination operate to preclude the publication of another proposed determination under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to the same or similar subject matter.
