
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 12 - FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING
#### ยง 12.3 Development of voluntary product standards.
##### Determination that a published voluntary product standard has not been observed.

(c)(1) Whenever the Secretary has reason to believe that a voluntary product standard published under these procedures is not being observed he shall initiate an inquiry to determine such fact.

(2) If, on the basis of the information developed during the inquiry, the Secretary concludes that the voluntary product standard is not being observed, he shall publish a proposed determination to this effect. The proposed determination shall identify the particular standard involved and shall be accompanied by a concise statement of the facts upon which it is based.

(3) Within 60 days after publication of the proposed determination, any interested party may submit in writing comments, data, arguments, views, or other information relevant to the proposed determination. All written submissions shall be made a part of the public record.

(4) Within 30 days after the proposed determination has been published, any interested party may request in writing an oral hearing to present his views. The granting of such a hearing shall be at the discretion of the Secretary. Any such hearing shall be public and notice thereof shall be published at least 15 days in advance. A transcript of the hearing shall be made part of the public record.

(5) As soon as practicable following the conclusion of the proceedings described in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section, and upon consideration of all relevant information, the Secretary shall either publish a final determination that the voluntary product standard is not being observed, or he shall publish a notice withdrawing his proposed determination under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. In no event shall the withdrawal of a proposed determination operate to preclude the initiation of another inquiry regarding the same standard under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
