
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### and

h.2.a. "Specially designed" to protect the "electronically scanned array antennae" specified by 6A008.e;

h.2.b. Resulting in an antenna pattern having an 'average side lobe level' more than 40 dB below the peak of the main beam level.

b. "Software" or encryption keys/codes "specially designed" to enhance or release the performance characteristics of equipment controlled by ECCN 6A203 or equipment controlled by ECCN 6A003 that meets or exceeds the performance characteristics described in ECCN 6A203.

b. "Software" "specially designed" for seismic intrusion detection systems in 6A999.c.

c. "Source Code" "specially designed" for seismic intrusion detection systems in 6A999.c.

See ยง 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.

The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.

See ยง 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.

(1) Items controlled for MT reasons;

(2) "Technology" for commodities controlled by 6A002, 6A004.e, or 6A008.j.1;

(3) "Technology" for 6A003 cameras, unless for "technology" for the integration of 6A003 cameras into camera systems "specially designed" for civil automotive applications ; or

(4) Exports or reexports to destinations outside of those countries listed in Country Group A:5 (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR) of "technology" for the "production" of the following: (a) Items controlled by 6A001.a.1.b, 6A001.a.1.e, 6A001.a.2.a.1, 6A001.a.2.a.2, 6A001.a.2.a.3, 6A001.a.2.a.5, 6A001.a.2.a.6, 6A001.a.2.b, 6A004.c, 6A004.d, 6A006.a.2, 6A006.c.1, 6A006.d, 6A006.e, 6A008.d, 6A008.h, 6A008.k, or 6B008; and (b) Items controlled by 6A001.a.2.c or 6A001.a.2.f when "specially designed" for real time applications.

The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.

a. [Reserved]

b. [Reserved]

c. [Reserved]

d. "Technology" as follows:

d.1. "Technology" "required" for the coating and treatment of optical surfaces to achieve an 'optical thickness' uniformity of 99.5% or better for optical coatings 500 mm or more in diameter or major axis length and with a total loss (absorption and scatter) of less than 5 x 10;

d.2. "Technology" for the fabrication of optics using single point diamond turning techniques to produce surface finish "accuracies" of better than 10 nm rms on non-planar surfaces exceeding 0.5 m;

e. "Technology" "required" for the "development," "production" or "use" of "specially designed" diagnostic instruments or targets in test facilities for "SHPL" testing or testing or evaluation of materials irradiated by "SHPL" beams;

f. [Reserved]

g. [Reserved]

h. [Reserved]
