
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### and

b. Azimuthal accuracy better (less) than 0.5 degrees rms at latitudes of +/-80 degrees, referenced to local magnetic field;

c. Designed or modified to be integrated with flight control and navigation systems.

b. Attitude control equipment designed or modified for UAVs capable of delivering at least 500 kilograms of payload to a range of at least 300 km, other than those controlled by either USML paragraph VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a;

c. Flight control servo valves designed of modified for the systems in 7A116.a. or 7A116.b, and designed or modified to operate in a vibration environment greater than 10 g rms over the entire range between 20Hz and 2 kHz.

a. Guidance or navigation systems, not elsewhere specified on the USML, that are "specially designed" for a defense article on the USML or for a 600 series item.

b. to w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments," including accelerometers, gyros, angular rate sensors, gravity meters (gravimeters), and inertial measurement units (IMUs), that are "specially designed" for defense articles controlled by USML Category XII or items controlled by 7A611, and that are NOT:

x.1. Enumerated or controlled in the USML or elsewhere within ECCN 7A611;

x.2. Described in ECCNs 6A007, 6A107, 7A001, 7A002, 7A003, 7A101, 7A102 or 7A103; or

x.3. Elsewhere specified in ECCN 7A611.y or 3A611.y.

y. Specific "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in this ECCN or a defense article in Category XII and not elsewhere specified on the USML or in the CCL, as follows, and "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" therefor:

y.1 [Reserved]

(2) This entry does not control test, calibration or alignment equipment for 'Maintenance level I' or 'Maintenance Level II'.

(2) "Maintenance Level II": The defective LRU is sent to the maintenance workshop (the manufacturer's or that of the operator responsible for level II maintenance). At the maintenance workshop, the malfunctioning LRU is tested by various appropriate means to verify and localize the defective Shop Replaceable Assembly (SRA) module responsible for the failure. This SRA is removed and replaced by an operative spare. The defective SRA (or possibly the complete LRU) is then shipped to the manufacturer. 'Maintenance Level II' does not include the disassembly or repair of controlled accelerometers or gyro sensors.

b. Profilometers having a measurement "accuracy" of 0.5 nm (5 angstrom) or less (better).

(2) This entry includes: inertial measurement unit (IMU module) tester; IMU platform tester; IMU stable element handling fixture; IMU platform balance fixture; gyro tuning test station; gyro dynamic balance stations; gyro run-in/motor test stations; gyro evacuation and filling stations; centrifuge fixtures for gyro bearings; accelerometer axis align stations; and accelerometer test stations.

b. Reflectometers having a threshold accuracy of 50 ppm or less (better).

c. Prolifometers having a threshold accuracy of 0.5nm (5 angstrom) or less (better).

b. Environmental test facilities "specially designed" for the certification, qualification, or testing of commodities controlled in ECCN 7A611 (except 7A611.y) or guidance equipment in USML Category XII that are not enumerated in USML Category XII or controlled by another "600 series" ECCN.

c. Field test equipment "specially designed" to evaluate or calibrate the operation of systems described in USML Category XII(a), (b), or (c).

d. to w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity listed in this entry and that are not enumerated on the USML or controlled by another "600 series" ECCN.

a. "Software" "specially designed" or modified to improve the operational performance or reduce the navigational error of systems to the levels controlled by 7A003, 7A004 or 7A008;

b. "Source code" for hybrid integrated systems which improves the operational performance or reduces the navigational error of systems to the level controlled by 7A003 or 7A008 by continuously combining heading data with any of the following:

b.1. Doppler radar or sonar velocity data;
