
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### or

l.1. Heat release rate (at maximum rating) equal to or in excess of 190,000 BTU per hour per cubic foot of furnace volume;

l.2. Ratio of steam generated in pounds per hour (at maximum rating) to the dry weight of the boiler in pounds equal to or in excess of 0.83.

m. Major "components," "accessories," and "attachments" for marine boilers described in 8A992.l.

The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.

b. [Reserved]

b. Test, inspection, and production "equipment" "specially designed" for the "development," "production," repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 8A620.b and "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" therefor.

b. A density less than 561 kg/m.

b. [Reserved]

See ยง 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.

The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.

a. "Software" "specially designed" for the "development," "production," operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 8A609, ECCN 8B609, or ECCN 8C609 (except for commodities controlled by ECCN 8A609.y).

b. through .x [Reserved]

y. Specific "software" "specially designed" for the "development," "production," operation, or maintenance of commodities in ECCN 8A609.y.

a. "Software" "specially designed" for the "development," "production," operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 8A620 or ECCN 8B620 (except for commodities controlled by ECCN 8A620.b or .y or ECCN 8B620.b).

b. "Software" "specially designed" for the "development," "production," operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 8A620.b or ECCN 8B620.b.

c. through .x [Reserved]

y. Specific "software" "specially designed" for the "development," "production," operation, or maintenance of commodities in ECCN 8A620.y.

See ยง 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports under License Exceptions, and Validated End-User authorizations.

The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading.

b. "Technology" for the overhaul or refurbishing of equipment controlled by 8A001, 8A002.b, 8A002.j, 8A002.o or 8A002.p.

c. "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production" of any of the following:

c.1. Surface-effect vehicles (fully skirted variety) having all of the following:

c.1.a. Maximum design speed, fully loaded, exceeding 30 knots in a significant wave height of 1.25 m or more;
