
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### Related Controls:

Technical data directly related to articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category VI are controlled under USML Category VI(g).

a. "Technology" "required" for the "development," "production," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 8A609, 8B609, or 8C609 (except for commodities controlled by ECCN 8A609.y), or "software" controlled by ECCN 8D609.

b. through .x [Reserved]

y. Specific "technology" "required" for the "development," "production," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities or software in ECCN 8A609.y or 8D609.y.

a. "Technology" "required" for the "development," "production," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 8A620 or 8B620 or "software" controlled by ECCN 8D620 (except for commodities controlled by ECCN 8A620.b or .y or ECCN 8B620.b or "software" controlled by 8D620.b or .y).

b. "Technology" "required" for the "development," "production," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by ECCN 8A620.b or 8B620.b or "software" controlled by ECCN 8D620.b.

c. through .x [Reserved]

y. Specific "technology" "required" for the "development," "production," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul or refurbishing of commodities or software in ECCN 8A620.y or 8D620.y.

b. Designed to power an "aircraft" designed to cruise at Mach 1 or higher, for more than 30 minutes.

b. 'Corrected specific fuel consumption' not exceeding 0.219 kg/kWh at 35% of the maximum continuous power when using liquid fuel.

b. Whose design or production origins are either not from a Wassenaar Participating State (see Supplement No. 1 to part 743 of the EAR) or unknown to the manufacturer.

a. Space launch vehicles;

b. "Spacecraft";

c. "Spacecraft buses";

d. "Spacecraft payloads" incorporating items specified by 3A001.b.1.a.4, 3A002.g, 5A001.a.1, 5A001.b.3, 5A002.c, 5A002.e, 6A002.a.1, 6A002.a.2, 6A002.b, 6A002.d, 6A003.b, 6A004.c, 6A004.e, 6A008.d, 6A008.e, 6A008.k, 6A008.l or 9A010.c;

e. On-board systems or equipment, specially designed for "spacecraft" and having any of the following functions:

e.1. 'Command and telemetry data handling';
