
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### or

b.1. Incorporating an aerosol dispensing system/mechanism with a capacity greater than 20 liters;

b.2. Designed or modified to incorporate an aerosol dispensing system/mechanism with a capacity of greater than 20 liters.

"Spacecraft" and other items described in ECCN 9A515 remain subject to the EAR even if exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) with defense articles "subject to the ITAR" integrated into and included therein as integral parts of the item. In all other cases, such defense articles are subject to the ITAR. For example, a 9A515.a "spacecraft" remains "subject to the EAR" even when it is exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) with a "hosted payload" described in USML Category XV(e)(17) incorporated therein. In all other cases, a "hosted payload" performing a function described in USML Category XV(a) always remains a USML item. The removal of the defense article subject to the ITAR from the spacecraft is a retransfer under the ITAR and would require an ITAR authorization, regardless of the CCL authorization the spacecraft is exported under. Additionally, transfer of technical data regarding the defense article subject to the ITAR integrated into the spacecraft would require an ITAR authorization.

a. "Spacecraft," including satellites, and space vehicles and "sub-orbital craft," whether designated developmental, experimental, research or scientific, not enumerated in USML Category XV or described in ECCN 9A004.u or .w, that:

a.1. Have electro-optical remote sensing capabilities and having a clear aperture greater than 0.35 meters, but less than or equal to 0.50 meters;
