
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### and

y.5. Space grade or for spacecraft applications subminiature (SMA and SMP) plugs and connectors, TNC plugs and cable and connector assemblies with SMA plugs and connectors;

y.6. Space grade or for spacecraft applications flight cable assemblies.

b. Thermal batteries, except for thermal batteries controlled by 9A604.a, that are "specially designed" for systems controlled under USML Category IV.

c. "Components" "specially designed" for ramjet, scramjet, pulse jet, or combined cycle engines controlled under USML Category IV, including devices to regulate combustion in such commodities.

d. "Components" "specially designed" for hybrid rocket motors controlled under USML Category IV usable in rockets, missiles, or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of a range equal to or greater than 300 km.

e. "Components" "specially designed" for pressure gain combustion-based propulsion systems controlled under USML Category IV.

f. Composite structures, laminates and manufactures thereof "specially designed" for the following items controlled under USML Category IV:

f.1. Systems capable of a range equal to or greater than 300 km;

f.2. Individual rocket stages usable in 9A604.f.1. systems;

f.3. Solid propellant rocket motors or hybrid rocket motors having a total impulse capacity equal to or greater than 8.41 x 10Ns; or

f.4. Liquid propellant rocket engines integrated, or designed or modified to be integrated, into a liquid propellant propulsion system which has a total impulse capacity equal to or greater than 8.41 x 10Ns.

f.5. Thrust vector control systems usable in rockets, space launch vehicles (SLVs), and missiles capable of delivering at least a 500 kg payload to a range of at least 300 km.

f.6. Re-entry vehicles or warhead heat shields usable in rockets, SLVs, and missiles capable of delivering at least a 500 kg payload to a range of at least 300 km.

f.7. Safing, arming, fuzing, and firing components usable in rockets, SLVs, and missiles capable of delivering at least a 500 kg payload to a range of at least 300 km.

g. through w. [Reserved]

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in paragraphs .a through .d of this ECCN, or a defense article controlled under USML Category IV, and not specified elsewhere on the USML.

a. 'Military Aircraft' "specially designed" for a military use that are not enumerated in USML paragraph VIII(a).

b. L-100 aircraft manufactured prior to 2013.

c.-d. [Reserved]

e. Mobile aircraft arresting and engagement runway systems for aircraft controlled by either USML Category VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a.

f. Pressure refueling equipment and equipment that facilitates operations in confined areas, "specially designed" for aircraft controlled by either USML paragraph VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a.

g. Aircrew life support equipment, aircrew safety equipment and other devices for emergency escape from aircraft controlled by either USML paragraph VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a.

h. Parachutes, paragliders, complete parachute canopies, harnesses, platforms, electronic release mechanisms, "specially designed" for use with aircraft controlled by either USML paragraph VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a, and "equipment" "specially designed" for military high altitude parachutists, such as suits, special helmets, breathing systems, and navigation equipment.

i. Controlled opening equipment or automatic piloting systems, designed for parachuted loads.

j. Ground effect machines (GEMS), including surface effect machines and air cushion vehicles, "specially designed" for use by a military.

k. through s. [Reserved]

t. Composite structures, laminates, and manufactures thereof "specially designed" for unmanned aerial vehicles controlled under USML Category VIII(a) with a range equal to or greater than 300 km.

u. Apparatus and devices "specially designed" for the handling, control, activation and non-ship-based launching of UAVs controlled by either USML paragraph VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a, and capable of a range equal to or greater than 300 km.

v. Radar altimeters designed or modified for use in UAVs controlled by either USML paragraph VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a., and capable of delivering at least 500 kilograms payload to a range of at least 300 km.

w.1. Pneumatic hydraulic, mechanical, electro-optical, or electromechanical flight control systems (including fly-by-wire and fly-by-light systems) and attitude control equipment designed or modified for UAVs controlled by either USML paragraph VIII(a) or ECCN 9A610.a., and capable of delivering at least 500 kilograms payload to a range of at least 300 km.

w.2. Flight control servo valves designed or modified for the systems in 9A610.w.1. and designed or modified to operate in a vibration environment greater than 10g rms over the entire range between 20Hz and 2 kHz.

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity enumerated or otherwise described in ECCN 9A610 (except for 9A610.y) or a defense article enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category VIII and not elsewhere specified on the USML or in 9A610.y, 9A619.y, or 3A611.y.

y. Specific "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in this entry, ECCN 9A619, or for a defense article in USML Categories VIII or XIX and not elsewhere specified in the USML or the CCL, and other aircraft commodities "specially designed" for a military use, as follows, and "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" therefor:

y.1. Aircraft tires;

y.2. Analog gauges and indicators;

y.3. Audio selector panels;

y.4. Check valves for hydraulic and pneumatic systems;

y.5. Crew rest equipment;

y.6. Ejection seat mounted survival aids;

y.7. Energy dissipating pads for cargo (for pads made from paper or cardboard);

y.8. Fluid filters and filter assemblies;

y.9. Galleys;

y.10. Fluid hoses, straight and unbent lines (for a commodity subject to control in this entry or defense article in USML Category VIII), and fittings, couplings, clamps (for a commodity subject to control in this entry or defense article in USML Category VIII) and brackets therefor;

y.11. Lavatories;

y.12. Life rafts;

y.13. Magnetic compass, magnetic azimuth detector;

y.14. Medical litter provisions;

y.15. Cockpit or cabin mirrors;

y.16. Passenger seats including palletized seats;

y.17. Potable water storage systems;

y.18. Public address (PA) systems;

y.19. Steel brake wear pads (does not include sintered mix or carbon/carbon materials);

y.20. Underwater locator beacons;

y.21. Urine collection bags/pads/cups/pumps;

y.22. Windshield washer and wiper systems;

y.23. Filtered and unfiltered panel knobs, indicators, switches, buttons, and dials;

y.24. Lead-acid and Nickel-Cadmium batteries;

y.25. Propellers, propeller systems, and propeller blades used with reciprocating engines;

y.26. Fire extinguishers;

y.27. Flame and smoke/COdetectors;

y.28. Map cases;

y.29. 'Military Aircraft' that were first manufactured from 1946 to 1955 that do not incorporate defense articles enumerated or otherwise described on the U.S. Munitions List, unless the items are required to meet safety or airworthiness standards of a Wassenaar Arrangement Participating State; and do not incorporate weapons enumerated or otherwise described on the U.S. Munitions List, unless inoperable and incapable of being returned to operation;

y.30. "Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments," other than electronic items or navigation equipment, for use in or with a commodity controlled by ECCN 9A610.h;
