
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### i.e.,

f. Engine monitoring systems (those that conduct prognostics, diagnostics, and monitor health) "specially designed" for gas turbine engines and components controlled in this ECCN 9A619.

g. through w. [Reserved]

x. Parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity controlled by this ECCN 9A619 (other than ECCN 9A619.c) or for a defense article enumerated in USML Category XIX and not specified elsewhere on the USML or in ECCN 3A611.y, 9A610.y or 9A619.y.

y. Specific "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" for a commodity subject to control in this entry, ECCN 9A610, or for a defense article in USML Category VIII or Category XIX and not elsewhere specified on the USML or in the CCL, and other commodities, as follows, and "parts," "components," "accessories," and "attachments" "specially designed" therefor:

y.1. Oil tank and reservoirs;

y.2. Oil lines and tubes;

y.3. Fluid hoses, and lines (for a commodity subject to control in this entry or a defense article in USML Category XIX), fittings, couplings, and brackets therefor;

y.4. Fluid filters and filter assemblies;

y.5. Clamps (for a commodity subject to control in this entry or a defense article in USML Category XIX);

y.6. Shims;

y.7. Identification plates and nameplates;

y.8. Fluid manifolds; and

y.9. Check valves for fluid systems.

b. "Superconductive" electrical equipment (rotating machinery and transformers) "specially designed" to be installed in a vehicle for military ground, marine, airborne, or space applications, and capable of operating while in motion.

c. through w. [Reserved].

x. "Parts," "components," "accessories" and "attachments" that are "specially designed" for a commodity controlled by ECCN 9A620.

b. Off highway wheel tractors of carriage capacity 9 mt (20,000 lbs) or more; and major "components" and accessories, n.e.s.

c. On-Highway tractors, with single or tandem rear axles rated for 9 mt per axel (20,000 lbs.) or greater and "specially designed" major "components".

a.1 Cargo aircraft bearing "C" designations and numbered C-45 through C-118 inclusive, C-121 through C-125 inclusive, and C-131, using reciprocating engines only.

a.2 Trainer aircraft bearing "T" designations and using reciprocating engines or turboprop engines with less than 600 horsepower (s.h.p.).

a.3 Utility aircraft bearing "U" designations and using reciprocating engines only.

a.4 All liaison aircraft bearing an "L" designation.

a.5 All observation aircraft bearing "O" designations and using reciprocating engines.

b. Aircraft n.e.s.;

c. Aero gas turbine engines, and "parts" and "components" "specially designed" therefor.

d. "Parts" and "components," "specially designed" for "aircraft," n.e.s.
