
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 - The Commerce Control List
####### i.e.,

b.10. HOTAS (Hand-on Throttle and Stick) controls, HOCAS (Hands on Collective and Stick), Active Inceptor Systems (a combination of Active Side Stick Control Assembly, Active Throttle Quadrant Assembly, and Inceptor Control Unit), rudder pedal assemblies for digital flight control systems, and parts and components "specially designed" therefor;

b.11. Integrated Vehicle Health Management Systems (IVHMS), Condition Based Maintenance (CBM) Systems, and Flight Data Monitoring (FDM) systems;

b.12. Equipment "specially designed" for system prognostic and health management of aircraft;

b.13. Active Vibration Control Systems;

b.14. Self-sealing fuel bladders "specially designed" to pass a .50 caliber or larger gunfire test (MIL-DTL-5578, MIL-DTL-27422); or

b.15. Technology "required" for the "development" or "production" of "parts" or "components" controlled in 9A610.x and "specially designed" for damage or failure-adaptive flight control systems controlled in Category VIII(h)(7) of the USML.

c. through x. [Reserved]

y. Specific "technology" "required" for the "production," "development," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities or software enumerated in ECCN 9A610.y or 9D610.y.

a. "Technology" (other than "technology" controlled by paragraphs .b and .c of this entry) "required" for the "development," "production," operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishment of items controlled by ECCN 9A619 (except 9A619.y), ECCN 9B619 (except 9B619.y), ECCN 9C619, or ECCN 9D619 (except 9D619.y).

b. "Technology" (other than "build-to-print technology") "required" for the "development" or "production" of any of the following:

b.1. Front, turbine center, and exhaust frames;
