
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Export Administration Regulations
##### PART 774 - THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST
###### Supplement No. 7 to Part 774 - Very Sensitive List

(i) 1A002.a.1.

(ii) 1C001.

(iii) 1C012.

(iv) 1E001-"Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production" of equipment and materials specified by 1A002.a, 1C001, or 1C012.

(i) 5A001.b.5.

(ii) 5A001.h.

(iii) 5D001.a-"Software" "specially designed" for the "development" or "production" of equipment, functions or features specified by 5A001.b.5 or 5A001.h.

(iv) 5E001.a-"Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production" of equipment, functions, features or "software" specified by 5A001.b.5, 5A001.h, or 5D001.a.

(i) 6A001.a.1.b.1-Systems or transmitting and receiving arrays, designed for object detection or location, having a sound pressure level exceeding 210 dB (reference 1 µPa at 1 m) and an operating frequency in the band from 30 Hz to 2 kHz.

(ii) 6A001.a.2.a.1 to a.2.a.3, a.2.a.5, or a.2.a.6.

(iii) 6A001.a.2.b.

(iv) 6A001.a.2.c-Processing equipment, "specially designed" for real time application with towed acoustic hydrophone arrays, having "user-accessible programmability" and time or frequency domain processing and correlation, including spectral analysis, digital filtering and beamforming using Fast Fourier or other transforms or processes.

(v) 6A001.a.2.e.

(vi) 6A001.a.2.f-Processing equipment, "specially designed" for real time application with bottom or bay cable systems, having "user-accessible programmability" and time or frequency domain processing and correlation, including spectral analysis, digital filtering and beamforming using Fast Fourier or other transforms or processes.

(vii) 6A002.a.1.c.

(viii) 6B008.

(ix) 6D001-"Software" "specially designed" for the "development" or "production" of equipment specified by 6B008.

(x) 6D003.a.

(xi) 6E001-"Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" of equipment or "software" specified by the 6A, 6B, or 6D provisions described in this Supplement.

(xii) 6E002-"Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "production" of equipment specified by the 6A or 6B provisions described in this Supplement.

(i) 7D003.a.

(ii) 7D003.b.

(i) 8A001.b.

(ii) 8A001.c.1.

(iii) 8A002.o.3.b.

(iv) 8D001-"Software" specially designed for the "development" or "production" of equipment specified by 8A001.b, 8A001.c.1, or 8A002.o.3.b.

(v) 8E001-"Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production" of equipment specified by 8A001.b, 8A001.c.1, or 8A002.o.3.b.

(i) 9A011.

(ii) 9D001-"Software" "specially designed" or modified for the "development" of equipment or "technology" specified by 9A011, 9E003.a.1, or 9E003.a.3.a.

(iii) 9D002-"Software" "specially designed" or modified for the "production" of equipment specified by 9A011.

(iv) 9E001-"Technology" according to the General Technology note for the "development" of equipment or "software" specified by 9A011 or this Supplement's description of 9D001 or 9D002.

(v) 9E002-"Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "production" of equipment specified by 9A011.

(vi) 9E003.a.1.

(vii) 9E003.a.3.a.
