
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 15 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
#### Subpart B - Testimony by Employees and the Production of Documents in Legal Proceedings
##### ยง 15.11 Scope.

(a) This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures to be followed with respect to the production or disclosure of the testimony of employees and former employees of the Department of Commerce as witnesses in legal proceedings and the production or disclosure of information contained in Department of Commerce documents, or any information acquired by any person while such person was an employee of the Department of Commerce, for use in legal proceedings pursuant to a request, order, or subpoena (collectively referred to in this subpart as a "demand"). No Department employee or former employee shall comply with such a demand without the prior authorization of the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel, in accordance with this subpart.

(b) This subpart does not apply to any legal proceeding in which an employee is to testify while on leave status, regarding facts or events unrelated to the official business of the Department or the duties of the employee.

(c) This subpart does not apply to any legal proceeding in which the Department is a party or to subpoenas for testimony or documents received from Congress, a Federal agency Inspector General, or a Special Prosecutor.

(d) This subpart does not apply to any demand for testimony of employees and former employees of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) or to demands for the production of USPTO documents. The process for any demand for testimony of an employee or for the production of documents of the USPTO can be found at 37 CFR 104.21 through 104.24, and any such demands must be sent directly to the USPTO.

(e) This subpart in no way affects the rights and procedures governing public access to records pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act, or the Trade Secrets Act or other Federal law restricting the disclosure of information. Moreover, demands in legal proceedings for the production of records, or for the testimony of Department employees regarding information protected by the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, the Trade Secrets Act, 18 U.S.C. 1905, Census data under Title 13, U.S.C., or other confidentiality statutes, must satisfy the requirements for disclosure set forth in those statutes, if any, before the records may be provided or testimony given. The General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel should first determine if there is a legal basis to provide the testimony or records sought under applicable confidentiality statutes before applying the procedures established in this subpart.

(f) This subpart is not intended to be relied upon to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by any party against the United States.
