
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - Additional Protocol Regulations
##### PART 783 - CIVIL NUCLEAR FUEL CYCLE-RELATED ACTIVITIES NOT INVOLVING NUCLEAR MATERIALS
###### Supplement No. 3 to Part 783 - List of Specified Equipment and Non-Nuclear Material for the Reporting of Imports

Nuclear reactors capable of operation so as to maintain a controlled self-sustaining fission chain reaction, excluding zero energy reactors, the latter being defined as reactors with a designed maximum rate of production of plutonium not exceeding 100 grams per year.

Metal vessels, as complete units or as major shop-fabricated parts therefor, which are specially designed or prepared to contain the core of a nuclear reactor, as defined in section 1.1, and are capable of withstanding the operating pressure of the primary coolant.

Manipulative equipment specially designed or prepared for inserting or removing fuel in a nuclear reactor, as defined in section 1.1 of this Supplement, capable of on-load operation or employing technically sophisticated positioning or alignment features to allow complex off-load fueling operations such as those in which direct viewing of or access to the fuel is not normally available.

Rods specially designed or prepared for the control of the reaction rate in a nuclear reactor as defined in section 1.1 of this Supplement.

Tubes which are specially designed or prepared to contain fuel elements and the primary coolant in a reactor, as defined in section 1.1 of this supplement, at an operating pressure in excess of 5.1 MPa (740 psi).

Zirconium metal and alloys in the form of tubes or assemblies of tubes, and in quantities exceeding 500 kg in any period of 12 months, specially designed or prepared for use in a reactor, as defined in section 1.1 of this supplement, and in which the relation of hafnium to zirconium is less than 1:500 parts by weight.

Pumps specially designed or prepared for circulating the primary coolant for nuclear reactors, as defined in section 1.1 of this Supplement.

Deuterium, heavy water (deuterium oxide) and any other deuterium compound in which the ratio of deuterium to hydrogen atoms exceeds 1:5000 for use in a nuclear reactor, as defined in section 1.1 of this supplement, in quantities exceeding 200 kg of deuterium atoms for any one recipient country in any period of 12 months.

Graphite having a purity level better than 5 parts per million boron equivalent and with a density greater than 1.50 g/cmfor use in a nuclear reactor, as defined in section 1.1 of this Supplement, in quantities exceeding 3 x 10kg (30 metric tons) for any one recipient country in any period of 12 months.

(a) The pure uranium nitrate solution is concentrated by evaporation and passed to a denitration process where it is converted to uranium oxide. This oxide is re-used in the nuclear fuel cycle.

(b) The intensely radioactive fission products solution is normally concentrated by evaporation and stored as a liquor concentrate. This concentrate may be subsequently evaporated and converted to a form suitable for storage or disposal.

(c) The pure plutonium nitrate solution is concentrated and stored pending its transfer to further process steps. In particular, holding or storage vessels for plutonium solutions are designed to avoid criticality problems resulting from changes in concentration and form of this stream. Specially designed or prepared holding or storage vessels for use in a plant for the reprocessing of irradiated fuel. The holding or storage vessels must be resistant to the corrosive effect of nitric acid. The holding or storage vessels are normally fabricated of materials such as low carbon stainless steels, titanium or zirconium, or other high quality materials. Holding or storage vessels may be designed for remote operation and maintenance and may have the following features for control of nuclear criticality: (1) Walls or internal structures with a boron equivalent of at least two percent; (2) a maximum diameter of 175 mm (7 in) for cylindrical vessels; or (3) a maximum width of 75 mm (3 in) for either a slab or annular vessel.

A "plant for the fabrication of fuel elements" includes the equipment:

(a) Which normally comes in direct contact with, or directly processes, or controls, the production flow of nuclear material, or

(b) Which seals the nuclear material within the cladding.

Items of equipment that are considered to fall within the meaning of the phrase "equipment, other than analytical instruments, specially designed or prepared" for the separation of isotopes of uranium include:
