
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - Additional Protocol Regulations
##### PART 783 - CIVIL NUCLEAR FUEL CYCLE-RELATED ACTIVITIES NOT INVOLVING NUCLEAR MATERIALS
###### Supplement No. 3 to Part 783 - List of Specified Equipment and Non-Nuclear Material for the Reporting of Imports
####### Explanatory Note

Specially designed or prepared piping systems and header systems for handling UFwithin the centrifuge cascades. The piping network is normally of the "triple" header system with each centrifuge connected to each of the headers. There is thus a substantial amount of repetition in its form. It is wholly made of UF-resistant materials (seeto section 5.2 of this supplement) and is fabricated to very high vacuum and cleanliness standards.

Specially designed or prepared magnetic or quadrupole mass spectrometers capable of taking "on-line" samples of feed, product or tails, from UFgas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

(a) Unit resolution for atomic mass unit greater than 320;

(b) Ion sources constructed of or lined with nichrome or monel or nickel plated;

(c) Electron bombardment ionization sources;

(d) Having a collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.

Frequency changers (also known as converters or invertors) specially designed or prepared to supply motor stators (as defined under section 5.1.2(d) of this supplement), or parts, components and sub-assemblies of such frequency changers having all of the following characteristics:

(a) A multiphase output of 600 to 2000 Hz;

(b) High stability (with frequency control better than 0.1%);

(c) Low harmonic distortion (less than 2%); and

(d) An efficiency of greater than 80%.

(a) Specially designed or prepared thin, porous filters, with a pore size of 100-1,000 &#xC5; (angstroms), a thickness of 5 mm (0.2 in) or less, and for tubular forms, a diameter of 25 mm (1 in) or less, made of metallic, polymer or ceramic materials resistant to corrosion by UF, and

(b) Specially prepared compounds or powders for the manufacture of such filters. Such compounds and powders include nickel or alloys containing 60 percent or more nickel, aluminum oxide, or UF-resistant fully fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers having a purity of 99.9 percent or more, a particle size less than 10 microns, and a high degree of particle size uniformity, which are specially prepared for the manufacture of gaseous diffusion barriers.

Specially designed or prepared hermetically sealed cylindrical vessels greater than 300 mm (12 in) in diameter and greater than 900 mm (35 in) in length, or rectangular vessels of comparable dimensions, which have an inlet connection and two outlet connections all of which are greater than 50 mm (2 in) in diameter, for containing the gaseous diffusion barrier, made of or lined with UF-resistant materials and designed for horizontal or vertical installation.

Specially designed or prepared axial, centrifugal, or positive displacement compressors, or gas blowers with a suction volume capacity of 1 m/min or more of UF, and with a discharge pressure of up to several hundred kPa (100 psi), designed for long-term operation in the UFenvironment with or without an electrical motor of appropriate power, as well as separate assemblies of such compressors and gas blowers. These compressors and gas blowers have a pressure ratio between 2:1 and 6:1 and are made of, or lined with, materials resistant to UF.

Specially designed or prepared vacuum seals, with seal feed and seal exhaust connections, for sealing the shaft connecting the compressor or the gas blower rotor with the driver motor so as to ensure a reliable seal against in-leaking of air into the inner chamber of the compressor or gas blower which is filled with UF. Such seals are normally designed for a buffer gas in-leakage rate of less than 1000 cm/min (60 in/min).

Specially designed or prepared heat exchangers made of or lined with UF-resistant materials (except stainless steel) or with copper or any combination of those metals, and intended for a leakage pressure change rate of less than 10 Pa (0.0015 psi) per hour under a pressure difference of 100 kPa (15 psi).

Specially designed or prepared process systems, capable of operating at pressures of 300 kPa (45 psi) or less, including:

(a) Feed autoclaves (or systems), used for passing UFto the gaseous diffusion cascades;

(b) Desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UFfrom diffusion cascades;

(c) Liquefaction stations where UFgas from the cascade is compressed and cooled to form liquid UF;

(d) "Product" or "tails" stations used for transferring UFinto containers.

Specially designed or prepared piping systems and header systems for handling UFwithin the gaseous diffusion cascades. This piping network is normally of the "double" header system with each cell connected to each of the headers.

(a) Specially designed or prepared large vacuum manifolds, vacuum headers and vacuum pumps having a suction capacity of 5 m/min (175 ft/min) or more.

(b) Vacuum pumps specially designed for service in UF-bearing atmospheres made of, or lined with, aluminum, nickel, or alloys bearing more than 60% nickel. These pumps may be either rotary or positive, may have displacement and fluorocarbon seals, and may have special working fluids present.

Specially designed or prepared manual or automated shut-off and control bellows valves made of UF-resistant materials with a diameter of 40 to 1500 mm (1.5 to 59 in) for installation in main and auxiliary systems of gaseous diffusion enrichment plants.

Specially designed or prepared magnetic or quadrupole mass spectrometers capable of taking "on-line" samples of feed, product or tails, from UFgas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

(a) Unit resolution for atomic mass unit greater than 320;

(b) Ion sources constructed of or lined with nichrome or monel or nickel plated;

(c) Electron bombardment ionization sources;

(d) Collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.

Specially designed or prepared separation nozzles and assemblies thereof. The separation nozzles consist of slit-shaped, curved channels having a radius of curvature less than 1 mm (typically 0.1 to 0.05 mm), resistant to corrosion by UFand having a knife-edge within the nozzle that separates the gas flowing through the nozzle into two fractions.

Specially designed or prepared vortex tubes and assemblies thereof. The vortex tubes are cylindrical or tapered, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF, having a diameter of between 0.5 cm and 4 cm, a length to diameter ratio of 20:1 or less and with one or more tangential inlets. The tubes may be equipped with nozzle-type appendages at either or both ends.

Specially designed or prepared axial, centrifugal or positive displacement compressors or gas blowers made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UFand with a suction volume capacity of 2 m/min or more of UF/carrier gas (hydrogen or helium) mixture.

Specially designed or prepared rotary shaft seals, with seal feed and seal exhaust connections, for sealing the shaft connecting the compressor rotor or the gas blower rotor with the driver motor so as to ensure a reliable seal against out-leakage of process gas or in-leakage of air or seal gas into the inner chamber of the compressor or gas blower which is filled with a UF/carrier gas mixture.

Specially designed or prepared heat exchangers made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF.

Specially designed or prepared separation element housings, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF, for containing vortex tubes or separation nozzles.

Specially designed or prepared process systems or equipment for enrichment plants made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF, including:

(a) Feed autoclaves, ovens, or systems used for passing UFto the enrichment process;

(b) Desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process for subsequent transfer upon heating;

(c) Solidification or liquefaction stations used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process by compressing and converting UFto a liquid or solid form;

(d) "Product" or "tails" stations used for transferring UFinto containers.

Specially designed or prepared header piping systems, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF, for handling UFwithin the aerodynamic cascades. This piping network is normally of the "double" header design with each stage or group of stages connected to each of the headers.

(a) Specially designed or prepared vacuum systems having a suction capacity of 5 m/min or more, consisting of vacuum manifolds, vacuum headers and vacuum pumps, and designed for service in UF-bearing atmospheres;

(b) Vacuum pumps specially designed or prepared for service in UF-bearing atmospheres and made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF. These pumps may use fluorocarbon seals and special working fluids.

Specially designed or prepared manual or automated shut-off and control bellows valves made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UFwith a diameter of 40 to 1500 mm for installation in main and auxiliary systems of aerodynamic enrichment plants.

Specially designed or prepared magnetic or quadrupole mass spectrometers capable of taking "on-line" samples of feed, "product" or "tails," from UFgas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

(a) Unit resolution for mass greater than 320;

(b) Ion sources constructed of or lined with nichrome or monel or nickel plated;

(c) Electron bombardment ionization sources;

(d) Collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.

Specially designed or prepared process systems for separating UFfrom carrier gas (hydrogen or helium).

(a) Cryogenic heat exchangers and cryoseparators capable of temperatures of -120 &#xB0;C or less, or

(b) Cryogenic refrigeration units capable of temperatures of -120 &#xB0;C or less, or

(c) Separation nozzle or vortex tube units for the separation of UFfrom carrier gas, or

(d) UFcold traps capable of temperatures of -20 &#xB0;C or less.

Countercurrent liquid-liquid exchange columns having mechanical power input (i.e., pulsed columns with sieve plates, reciprocating plate columns, and columns with internal turbine mixers), specially designed or prepared for uranium enrichment using the chemical exchange process. For corrosion resistance to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions, these columns and their internals are made of or protected by suitable plastic materials (such as fluorocarbon polymers) or glass. The stage residence time of the columns is designed to be short (30 seconds or less).

Liquid-liquid centrifugal contactors specially designed or prepared for uranium enrichment using the chemical exchange process. Such contactors use rotation to achieve dispersion of the organic and aqueous streams and then centrifugal force to separate the phases. For corrosion resistance to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions, the contactors are made of or are lined with suitable plastic materials (such as fluorocarbon polymers) or are lined with glass. The stage residence time of the centrifugal contactors is designed to be short (30 seconds or less).

(a) Specially designed or prepared electrochemical reduction cells to reduce uranium from one valence state to another for uranium enrichment using the chemical exchange process. The cell materials in contact with process solutions must be corrosion resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions.

(b) Specially designed or prepared systems at the product end of the cascade for taking the Uout of the organic stream, adjusting the acid concentration and feeding to the electrochemical reduction cells.

Specially designed or prepared systems for producing high-purity uranium chloride feed solutions for chemical exchange uranium isotope separation plants.

Specially designed or prepared systems for oxidation of Uto Ufor return to the uranium isotope separation cascade in the chemical exchange enrichment process.

Fast-reacting ion-exchange resins or adsorbents specially designed or prepared for uranium enrichment using the ion exchange process, including porous macroreticular resins, and/or pellicular structures in which the active chemical exchange groups are limited to a coating on the surface of an inactive porous support structure, and other composite structures in any suitable form including particles or fibers. These ion exchange resins/adsorbents have diameters of 0.2 mm or less and must be chemically resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions as well as physically strong enough so as not to degrade in the exchange columns. The resins/adsorbents are specially designed to achieve very fast uranium isotope exchange kinetics (exchange rate half-time of less than 10 seconds) and are capable of operating at a temperature in the range of 100 &#xB0;C to 200 &#xB0;C.

Cylindrical columns greater than 1,000 mm in diameter for containing and supporting packed beds of ion exchange resin/adsorbent, specially designed or prepared for uranium enrichment using the ion exchange process. These columns are made of or protected by materials (such as titanium or fluorocarbon plastics) resistant to corrosion by concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions and are capable of operating at a temperature in the range of 100 &#xB0;C to 200 &#xB0;C and pressures above 0.7 MPa (102 psia).

(a) Specially designed or prepared chemical or electrochemical reduction systems for regeneration of the chemical reducing agent(s) used in ion exchange uranium enrichment cascades.

(b) Specially designed or prepared chemical or electrochemical oxidation systems for regeneration of the chemical oxidizing agent(s) used in ion exchange uranium enrichment cascades.

Specially designed or prepared uranium vaporization systems which contain high-power strip or scanning electron beam guns with a delivered power on the target of more than 2.5 kW/cm.

Specially designed or prepared liquid metal handling systems for molten uranium or uranium alloys, consisting of crucibles and cooling equipment for the crucibles.

Specially designed or prepared "product" and "tails" collector assemblies for uranium metal in liquid or solid form.

Specially designed or prepared cylindrical or rectangular vessels for containing the uranium metal vapor source, the electron beam gun, and the "product" and "tails" collectors.

Specially designed or prepared supersonic expansion nozzles for cooling mixtures of UFand carrier gas to 150 K or less and which are corrosion resistant to UF.

Specially designed or prepared uranium pentafluoride (UF) solid product collectors consisting of filter, impact, or cyclone-type collectors, or combinations thereof, and which are corrosion resistant to the UF/UFenvironment.

Specially designed or prepared compressors for UF/carrier gas mixtures, designed for long term operation in a UFenvironment. The components of these compressors that come into contact with process gas are made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF.

Specially designed or prepared rotary shaft seals, with seal feed and seal exhaust connections, for sealing the shaft connecting the compressor rotor with the driver motor so as to ensure a reliable seal against out-leakage of process gas or in-leakage of air or seal gas into the inner chamber of the compressor which is filled with a UF/carrier gas mixture.

Specially designed or prepared systems for fluorinating UF(solid) to UF(gas).

Specially designed or prepared magnetic or quadrupole mass spectrometers capable of taking "on-line" samples of feed, "product," or "tails" from UFgas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

(a) Unit resolution for mass greater than 320;

(b) Ion sources constructed of or lined with nichrome or monel or nickel plated;

(c) Electron bombardment ionization sources; and

(d) Collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.

Specially designed or prepared process systems or equipment for enrichment plants made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF, including:

(a) Feed autoclaves, ovens, or systems used for passing UFto the enrichment process;

(b) Desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process for subsequent transfer upon heating;

(c) Solidification or liquefaction stations used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process by compressing and converting UFto a liquid or solid form;

(d) "Product" or "tails" stations used for transferring UFinto containers.

Specially designed or prepared process systems for separating UFfrom carrier gas. The carrier gas may be nitrogen, argon, or other gas.

Lasers or laser systems specially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium isotopes.

Specially designed or prepared microwave power sources and antennae for producing or accelerating ions and having the following characteristics: Greater than 30 GHz frequency and greater than 50 kW mean power output for ion production.

Specially designed or prepared radio frequency ion excitation coils for frequencies of more than 100 kHz and capable of handling more than 40 kW mean power.

Specially designed or prepared systems for the generation of uranium plasma, which may contain high-power strip or scanning electron beam guns with a delivered power on the target of more than 2.5 kW/cm.

Specially designed or prepared liquid metal handling systems for molten uranium or uranium alloys, consisting of crucibles and cooling equipment for the crucibles, power supply system, the ion source high-voltage power supply system, the vacuum system, and extensive chemical handling systems for recovery of product and cleaning/recycling of components.

Electromagnetic isotope separators specially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium isotopes, and equipment and components therefor, including:
