
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VII - Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - Additional Protocol Regulations
##### PART 783 - CIVIL NUCLEAR FUEL CYCLE-RELATED ACTIVITIES NOT INVOLVING NUCLEAR MATERIALS
###### Supplement No. 3 to Part 783 - List of Specified Equipment and Non-Nuclear Material for the Reporting of Imports
####### Magnet pole pieces:

(d)Specially designed or prepared magnet pole pieces having a diameter greater than 2 m used to maintain a constant magnetic field within an electromagnetic isotope separator and to transfer the magnetic field between adjoining separators.

Specially designed or prepared high-voltage power supplies for ion sources, having all of the following characteristics: capable of continuous operation, output voltage of 20,000 V or greater, output current of 1 A or greater, and voltage regulation of better than 0.01% over a time period of 8 hours.

Specially designed or prepared high-power, direct current magnet power supplies having all of the following characteristics: capable of continuously producing a current output of 500 A or greater at a voltage of 100 V or greater and with a current or voltage regulation better than 0.01% over a period of 8 hours.

Exchange towers fabricated from fine carbon steel (such as ASTM A516) with diameters of 6 m (20 ft) to 9 m (30 ft), capable of operating at pressures greater than or equal to 2 MPa (300 psi) and with a corrosion allowance of 6 mm or greater, specially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the water-hydrogen sulfide exchange process.

Single stage, low head (i.e., 0.2 MPa or 30 psi) centrifugal blowers or compressors for hydrogen-sulfide gas circulation (i.e., gas containing more than 70% HS) specially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the water-hydrogen sulfide exchange process. These blowers or compressors have a throughput capacity greater than or equal to 56 m/second (120,000 SCFM) while operating at pressures greater than or equal to 1.8 MPa (260 psi) suction and have seals designed for wet HS service.

Ammonia-hydrogen exchange towers greater than or equal to 35 m (114.3 ft) in height with diameters of 1.5 m (4.9 ft) to 2.5 m (8.2 ft) capable of operating at pressures greater than 15 MPa (2225 psi) specially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process. These towers also have at least one flanged axial opening of the same diameter as the cylindrical part through which the tower internals can be inserted or withdrawn.

Tower internals and stage pumps specially designed or prepared for towers for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process. Tower internals include specially designed stage contactors which promote intimate gas/liquid contact. Stage pumps include specially designed submersible pumps for circulation of liquid ammonia within a contacting stage internal to the stage towers.

Ammonia crackers with operating pressures greater than or equal to 3 MPa (450 psi) specially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.

Infrared absorption analyzers capable of "on-line" hydrogen/deuterium ratio analysis where deuterium concentrations are equal to or greater than 90%.

Catalytic burners for the conversion of enriched deuterium gas into heavy water specially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.
