
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VIII - Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce
#### PART 801 - SURVEY OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN SERVICES BETWEEN U.S. AND FOREIGN PERSONS AND SURVEYS OF DIRECT INVESTMENT
##### ยง 801.7 Rules and regulations for the BE-13, Survey of New Foreign Direct Investment in the United States.
###### Forms to be filed.

(c)Depending on the type of investment transaction, U.S. affiliates would report their information on one of five forms-BE-13A, BE-13B, BE-13D, BE-13E, or BE-13 Claim for Exemption.

(1) Form BE-13A-report for a U.S. business enterprise when a foreign entity acquires a voting interest (directly, or indirectly through an existing U.S. affiliate) in that U.S. business enterprise including segments, operating units, or real estate; and

(i) The total cost of the acquisition is greater than $3 million; and

(ii) By this acquisition, the foreign entity now owns at least 10 percent of the voting interest (directly, or indirectly through an existing U.S. affiliate) in the acquired U.S. business enterprise.

(2) Form BE-13B-report for a U.S. business enterprise when it is established by a foreign entity or by an existing U.S. affiliate of a foreign parent; and

(i) The expected total cost to establish the new U.S. business enterprise is greater than $3 million; and

(ii) The foreign entity owns at least 10 percent of the voting interest (directly, or indirectly through an existing U.S. affiliate) in the new U.S. business enterprise.

(3) Form BE-13D-report for an existing U.S. affiliate of a foreign parent when it expands its operations to include a new facility where business is conducted, and the expected total cost of the expansion is greater than $3 million.

(4) Form BE-13E-report for a U.S. business enterprise that previously filed Form BE-13B or BE-13D. Form BE-13E collects updated cost information and will be collected annually for three years after the year of the establishment or expansion of the U.S. business enterprise.

(5) Form BE-13 Claim for Exemption-report for a U.S. business enterprise that:

(i) Was contacted by BEA but does not meet the requirements for filing Forms BE-13A, BE-13B, or BE-13D; or

(ii) Whether or not contacted by BEA, met all requirements for filing Forms BE-13A, BE-13B, or BE-13D except the $3 million reporting threshold.
