
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 15 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
#### Subpart B - Testimony by Employees and the Production of Documents in Legal Proceedings
##### ยง 15.13 Demand for testimony or production of documents: Department procedures.
###### United States ex rel. Touhy,Ragen,

(2) If the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel determines that an employee should not comply with a properly-served subpoena, the General Counsel or agency counsel will attempt to have the subpoena withdrawn or modified. If this cannot be done with regard to a subpoena for documents, the Department will provide the tribunal with an objections letter or other notification that the documents will not be produced. If this cannot be done with regard to a subpoena for testimony, the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel will attempt to obtain U.S. Department of Justice representation for the employee and move to have the subpoena modified or quashed. If, because of time constraints, this is not possible prior to the compliance date specified in the subpoena, the employee should appear at the time and place set forth in the subpoena. If legal counsel cannot appear on behalf of the employee, the employee should produce a copy of the Department's regulations in this subpart and inform the legal tribunal that the employee has been advised by counsel not to provide the requested testimony and/or produce documents. If the legal tribunal rules that the demand in the subpoena must be complied with, the employee shall respectfully decline to comply with the demand.v.340 U.S. 462 (1951).
