
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VIII - Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce
#### PART 801 - SURVEY OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN SERVICES BETWEEN U.S. AND FOREIGN PERSONS AND SURVEYS OF DIRECT INVESTMENT
##### ยง 801.8 Rules and regulations for the BE-10, Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad.
###### Forms to be filed.

(c)(1) Form BE-10A must be completed by a U.S. reporter. Form BE-10A is required to cover the fully consolidated U.S. domestic business enterprise. It must also file Form(s) BE-10B, BE-10C, and/or BE-10D for its foreign affiliates, whether held directly or indirectly.

(2) Form BE-10B must be filed for each majority-owned foreign affiliate (for purposes of this survey, a "majority-owned" foreign affiliate is one in which the combined direct and indirect ownership interest of all U.S. parents of the foreign affiliate exceeds 50 percent) for which any of the items in paragraph (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section (not just the U.S. reporter's share) was greater than $80 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey:

(i) Total assets (without netting liabilities);

(ii) Sales or gross operating revenues, excluding sales taxes; or

(iii) Net income after provision for foreign income taxes.

(3) Form BE-10C must be filed:

(i) For each majority-owned foreign affiliate for which any one of the three items listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section was greater than $25 million but for which none of these items was greater than $80 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey; and

(ii) For each minority-owned foreign affiliate (for purposes of this survey, a "minority-owned" foreign affiliate is one in which the combined direct and indirect ownership interest of all U.S. parents of the foreign affiliate is 50 percent or less) for which any one of the three items listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section was greater than $25 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey.

(4) Form BE-10D must be filed for majority- or minority-owned foreign affiliates for which none of the three items listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section was greater than $25 million (positive or negative) at the end of, or for, its fiscal year that ended in the calendar year covered by the survey. Form BE-10D is a schedule; a U.S. reporter would submit one or more pages of the form depending on the number of affiliates that are required to be filed on this form.

(5) BE-10 Claim for Not Filing will be provided for response by:

(i) Persons that are not subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-10 survey but have been contacted by BEA concerning their reporting status; or

(ii) U.S. reporters that have been contacted by BEA concerning their reporting status for foreign affiliates that are no longer subject to the reporting requirements of the BE-10 survey.
