
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter VIII - Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce
#### PART 801 - SURVEY OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN SERVICES BETWEEN U.S. AND FOREIGN PERSONS AND SURVEYS OF DIRECT INVESTMENT
##### ยง 801.11 Rules and regulations for the BE-120 Benchmark Survey of Transactions in Selected Services and Intellectual Property with Foreign Persons.
###### What must be reported.

(c)(1) A U.S. person that had combined sales to foreign persons that exceeded $2 million, and/or combined purchases from foreign persons that exceeded $1 million in the services and intellectual property categories covered by the survey during its fiscal year, on an accrual basis, is required to provide data on total sales and/or purchases of each of the covered types of transactions and must disaggregate the totals by country and by relationship to the foreign transactor (foreign affiliate, foreign parent group, or unaffiliated). The $2 million threshold for sales and the $1 million threshold for purchases should be applied to the covered transactions categories with foreign persons by all parts of the consolidated domestic U.S. Reporter. Because the $2 million and $1 million thresholds apply separately to sales and purchases, the mandatory reporting requirement may apply to sales only, to purchases only, or to both. The determination of whether a U.S. services provider is subject to this reporting requirement can be based on the judgment of knowledgeable persons in a company who can identify reportable transactions on a recall basis, with a reasonable degree of certainty, without conducting a detailed manual records search.

(2) A U.S. person that had combined sales to foreign persons that were $2 million or less, and combined purchases from foreign persons that were $1 million or less in the transaction categories covered by the survey during its fiscal year, on an accrual basis, is required to provide the total sales and/or purchases for each type of transaction in which they engaged. The $2 million threshold for sales and the $1 million threshold for purchases should be applied to the covered transactions categories with foreign persons by all parts of the consolidated domestic U.S. Reporter. Because the $2 million and $1 million thresholds apply separately to sales and purchases, the mandatory reporting requirement may apply to sales only, to purchases only, or to both.
