
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 904 - CIVIL PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - General
####### § 904.3 Filing and service.

(a) Service of a NOVA (§ 904.101), NOPS (§ 904.302), NIDP (§ 904.303), Notice of Proposed Forfeiture (§ 904.504), Notice of Seizure (§ 904.501), Notice of Summary Sale (§ 904.505), Written Warning (§ 904.402), or Initial Decision (§ 904.271) may be made by certified mail (return receipt requested), electronic transmission, or third party commercial carrier to an addressee's last known address or by personal delivery. Service of a notice under this subpart will be considered effective upon receipt.

(b) Service of documents and papers, other than those described in paragraph (a) of this section, may be made by first class mail (postage prepaid), electronic transmission, or third party commercial carrier, to an addressee's last known address or by personal delivery. Service of documents and papers will be considered effective upon the date of postmark (or as otherwise shown for government-franked mail), delivery to third party commercial carrier, electronic transmission, or upon personal delivery.

(c) Whenever this part requires service of a document or other paper referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, such service may effectively be made on the agent for service of process, on the attorney for the person to be served, or other representative. Refusal by the person to be served (including an agent, attorney, or representative) of service of a document or other paper will be considered effective service of the document or other paper as of the date of such refusal. In cases where a document or paper described in paragraph (a) of this section is returned unclaimed, service will be considered effective if the U.S. Postal Service provides an affidavit stating that the party was receiving mail at the same address during the period when certified service was attempted.

(d) Any documents and other papers filed or served must be signed:

(1) By the person or persons filing the same;

(2) By an officer thereof if a corporation;

(3) By an officer or authorized employee if a government instrumentality; or

(4) By an attorney or other person having authority to sign.
