
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 906 - NATIONAL APPEALS OFFICE RULES OF PROCEDURE
###### ยง 906.3 Requesting an appeal and agency record.
####### Petition to appeal.

(b)(1) To request an appeal, a person shall submit a written petition of appeal to NAO.

(2) The petition shall include a copy of the initial administrative determination the person wishes to appeal.

(3) In the petition, the person shall state how the initial administrative determination directly and adversely affects him or her, why he or she believes the initial administrative determination is inconsistent with the law and regulations governing the initial administrative determination, and whether he or she requests a hearing or prefers that an appellate officer make a decision based on the NAO case record and without a hearing.

(i) Arguments not raised by the person in his or her petition to appeal will be deemed waived unless NAO permits amendments to the petition based on good cause for not raising the arguments in the original petition.

(ii) The petition may include additional documentation in support of the appeal.

(4) If a person requests a hearing, the written request must include a concise statement raising genuine and substantial issues of a material fact or law that cannot be resolved based on the documentary evidence.

(5) In the petition, a person shall state whether the person has a representative, and if so, the name, address, and telephone number for the representative.
