
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 908 - MAINTAINING RECORDS AND SUBMITTING REPORTS ON WEATHER MODIFICATION ACTIVITIES
###### ยง 908.3 Activities subject to reporting.

(a) The following, when conducted as weather modification activities, shall be subject to reporting:

(1) Seeding or dispersing of any substance into clouds or fog, to alter drop size distribution, produce ice crystals or coagulation of droplets, alter the development of hail or lightning, or influence in any way the natural development cycle of clouds or their environment;

(2) Using fires or heat sources to influence convective circulation or to evaporate fog;

(3) Modifying the solar radiation exchange of the earth or clouds, through the release of gases, dusts, liquids, or aerosols into the atmosphere;

(4) Modifying the characteristics of land or water surfaces by dusting or treating with powders, liquid sprays, dyes, or other materials;

(5) Releasing electrically charged or radioactive particles, or ions, into the atmosphere;

(6) Applying shock waves, sonic energy sources, or other explosive or acoustic sources to the atmosphere;

(7) Using aircraft propeller downwash, jet wash, or other sources of artificial wind generation; or

(8) Using lasers or other sources of electromagnetic radiation.

(b) In addition to the activities listed above, other similar activities falling within the definition of weather modification as set forth in ยง 908.1 are also subject to reporting.

(c) The requirement for reporting shall not apply to activities of a purely local nature that can reasonably be expected not to modify the weather outside of the area of operation. This exception is presently restricted to the use of lightning deflection or static discharge devices in aircraft, boats, or buildings, and to the use of small heat sources, fans, fogging devices, aircraft downwash, or sprays to prevent the occurrence of frost in tracts or fields planted with crops susceptible to frost or freeze damage. Also expected from the requirement for reporting are religious activities or other ceremonies, rites and rituals intended to modify the weather.

(d) All activities noted in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are subject to initial reporting. However, after the Administrator has received initial notification of a planned activity, he may waive some of the subsequent reporting requirements. This decision to waive certain reporting requirements will be based on the general acceptability, from a technical or scientific viewpoint, of the apparatus and techniques to be used.

(e) Other reporting exceptions may be made in the future by rule of the Administrator.
