
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 15 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
#### Subpart C - Involuntary Child and Spousal Support Allotments of NOAA Corps Officers
##### ยง 15.25 Procedures.
###### Service of notice.

(a)(1) An authorized person shall send to the designated official a signed notice that includes:

(i) A statement that delinquent support payments equal or exceed the amount of support payable for 2 months under a support order, and a request that an allotment be initiated pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 665.

(ii) A certified copy of the support order.

(iii) The amount of the monthly support payment. Such amount may include arrearages, if a support order specifies the payment of such arrearages. The notice shall indicate how much of the amount payable shall be applied toward liquidation of the arrearages.

(iv) Sufficient information identifying the officer to enable processing by the designated official. The following information is requested:

(A) Full name;

(B) Social Security Number;

(C) Date of birth; and

(D) Duty station location.

(v) The full name and address of the allottee. The allottee shall be an authorized person, the authorized person's designee, or the recipient named in the support order.

(vi) Any limitations on the duration of the support allotment.

(vii) A certificate that the official sending the notice is an authorized person.

(viii) A statement that delinquent support payments are more than 12 weeks in arrears, if appropriate.

(2) The notice shall be accomplished by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service, upon the appropriate designated official, who shall note the date and time of receipt on the notice.

(3) The notice is effective when it is received in the office of the designated official.

(4) When the information submitted is not sufficient to identify the officer, the notice shall be returned directly to the authorized person with an explanation of the deficiency. However, prior to returning the notice if there is sufficient time, an attempt should be made to inform the authorized person who caused the notice to be served, that it will not be honored unless adequate information is supplied.

(5) Upon receipt of effective notice of delinquent support payments, together with all required supplementary documents and information, the designated official shall identify the officer from whom moneys are due and payable. The allotment shall be established in the amount necessary to comply with the support order and to liquidate arrearages if provided by a support order when the maximum amount to be allotted under this provision, together with any other moneys withheld for support from the officer, does not exceed:

(i) 50 percent of the officer's disposable earnings for any month where the officer asserts by affidavit or other acceptable evidence, that he/she is supporting a spouse and/or dependent child, other than a party in the support order. When the officer submits evidence, copies shall be sent to the authorized person, together with notification that the officer's support claim will be honored.

If the support claim is contested by the authorized person, that authorized person may refer this matter to the appropriate court or other authority for resolution.

(ii) 60 percent of the officer's disposable earnings for any month where the officer fails to assert by affidavit or other acceptable evidence that he/she is supporting a spouse and/or dependent child.

(iii) Regardless of the limitations above, an additional 5 percent of the officer's disposable earnings shall be withheld when it is stated in the notice that the officer is in arrears in an amount equivalent to 12 or more weeks' support.
