
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 908 - MAINTAINING RECORDS AND SUBMITTING REPORTS ON WEATHER MODIFICATION ACTIVITIES
###### ยง 908.4 Initial report.

(a) Any person intending to engage in any weather modification project or activity in the United States shall provide a report of his intention, to be received by the Administrator at least 10 days before the commencement of such project or activity. This report shall contain at least the following:

(1) The designation, if any, used by the operator for the project or activity;

(2) The following dates for weather modification activities:

(i) The date the first actual weather modification activity is to be undertaken;

(ii) The date on which the final modification activity is expected to occur;

(3) The following information on persons involved with the project or activity:

(i) The name, affiliation, and address of the sponsor;

(ii) The name, affiliation, and address of the operator;

(4) The purpose of the project or activity;

(5) A map showing the approximate size and location of the target and control areas, and the location of each item of ground-based weather modification apparatus, precipitation measuring device, and, for airborne operations, the airport;

(6) A description of the weather modification apparatus, modification agents, and the techniques to be employed;

(7) The name and address of the responsible individual from whom log books or other records of the project or activity may be obtained;

(8) Answers to the following questions on project safeguards:

(i) Has an Environmental Impact Statement, Federal or State, been filed: Yes__ No __. If Yes, please furnish a copy as applicable.

(ii) Have provisions been made to acquire the latest forecasts, advisories, warnings, etc. of the National Weather Service, Forest Service, or others when issued prior to and during operations? Yes __ No __. If Yes, please specify on a separate sheet.

(iii) Have any safety procedures (operational contraints, provisions for suspension of operations, monitoring methods, etc.) and any environmental guidelines (related to the possible effects of the operations) been included in the operational plans? Yes __ No __. If Yes, please furnish copies or a description of the specific procedures and guidelines; and

(9) Optional remarks, to include any additional items which the person deems significant or of interest and such other information as the Administrator may request the person to submit.

(b) If circumstances prevent the signing of a contract or agreement to perform, or receipt of an authorization to proceed with, a weather modification activity at a date early enough to comply with paragraph (a) of this section, the initial report shall be provided so as to be received by the Administrator within 10 days of the date of signing of the contract or agreement, or receipt of authorization to proceed. In such cases, the report shall be accompanied by an explanation as to why it was not submitted at least 10 days prior to the commencement of the activity.

(c) In the event that circumstances beyond the control of the person liable to report under these regulations prevent the submission of the initial report in a timely manner as described above, the report shall be forwarded as early as possible, accompanied by an explanation as to why a timely report has not been provided. If such explanation is deemed adequate, the Administrator will consider the report as timely filed.
