
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 908 - MAINTAINING RECORDS AND SUBMITTING REPORTS ON WEATHER MODIFICATION ACTIVITIES
###### ยง 908.8 Maintenance of records.
####### i.e.

(iv) Total duration of operation of each unit of weather modification apparatus (, net hours of agent release).

(v) Type of each modification agent used.

(vi) Rate of dispersal of each agent during the period of actual operation of weather modification apparatus.

(vii) Total amount of agent used. If more than one agent was used, report total for each type separately.

(viii) Number of days on which weather modification activities were conducted, segregated by each of the major purposes of the activities.

(2) The monthly totals of hours of modification activity, the amount of modification agent used, and the number of days on which weather modification activities were conducted, segregated by each of the major purposes of the activities, shall be shown on the daily log sheet for the last day of each month.

(b) When the activity involves ground-based weather modification apparatus, records of the following shall also be maintained, when applicable, but need not be made part of the daily log:

(1) The location of each item of weather modification apparatus in use and its identification such as type and manufacturer's model number. If the apparatus is not commercially available, a brief description of the apparatus and the method of operation should be recorded.

(2) The name and address of the person responsible for operating each weather modification apparatus.

(3) The altitude and type of weather phenomenon subjected to weather modification activity during each operational period (e.g., cumulus clouds between 10,000 and 30,000 feet m.s.l.; ground fog).

(c) When the activity involves airborne weather modification apparatus, records of the following shall also be maintained, when applicable, but need not be made a part of the daily log: For each airborne weather modification apparatus run: Altitude, air speed; release points of modification agents, method of modification and characteristics of flares, rockets, or other delivery systems employed; temperature at release altitude; and, for aircraft: The type of aircraft, its identification number, the airport or airports used, and the names and addresses of crew members and the person responsible for operating the weather modification apparatus; and the altitude and type of weather phenomenon subjected to weather modification activity during each operational period (e.g., cumulus clouds between 10,000 and 30,000 feet m.s.l.; ground fog).

(d) The following records shall also be maintained, whenever applicable, but need not be made a part of the daily log. Only data specifically collected for the reported activity need be retained; data available from other sources need not be included.

(1) Any descriptions that were recorded of meteorological condiitons in target and control areas during the periods of operation; for example: Percent of cloud cover, temperature, humidity, the presence of lightning, hail, funnel clouds, heavy rain or snow, and unusual radar patterns.

(2) All measurements made of precipitation in target and control areas.

(3) Any unusual results.
