
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 908 - MAINTAINING RECORDS AND SUBMITTING REPORTS ON WEATHER MODIFICATION ACTIVITIES
###### ยง 908.12 Public disclosure of information.

(a) Any records or other information obtained by the Administrator under these rules or otherwise under the authority of Public Law 92-205 shall be made publicly available to the fullest practicable extent. Such records or information may be inspected on written request to the Administrator. However, the Administrator will not disclose any information referred to in section 1905 of title 18, United States Code, and that is otherwise unavailable to the public, except that such information shall be disclosed:

(1) To other Federal government departments, agencies, and officials for official use upon request;

(2) In any judicial proceeding under a court order formulated to preserve the confidentiality of such information without impairing the proceeding; and

(3) To the public, if necessary to protect their health and safety.

(b) Certified copies of such reports and information, to the extent publicly disclosable, may be obtained from the Administrator at cost in accordance with the Department of Commerce implementation of the Freedom of Information Act.

(c) Persons reporting on weather modification projects or related activities shall specifically identify all information that they consider not to be subject to public disclosure under the terms of Public Law 92-205 and provide reasons in support thereof. A determination as to whether or not reported information is subject to public dissemination shall be made by the Administrator.

(d) When consideration of a weather modification activity report and related information indicates that a proposed project may significantly depart from the practices or procedures generally employed in similar circumstances to avoid danger to persons, property, or the environment, or indicates that success of Federal research projects may be adversely affected if the proposed project is carried out as described, the Administrator will notify the operator(s) and State officials of such possibility and make recommendations where appropriate. The purpose of such notification shall be to inform those notified of existing practices and procedures or Federal research projects known to NOAA. Notification or recommendation, or failure to notify or recommend, shall not be construed as approval or disapproval of a proposed project or as an indication that, if carried out as proposed or recommended it may, in any way, protect or endanger persons, property, or the environment or affect the success of any Federal research project. Any advisory notification issued by the Administrator shall be available to the public and be included in the pertinent activity report file.
