
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 15 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
#### Subpart C - Involuntary Child and Spousal Support Allotments of NOAA Corps Officers
##### ยง 15.25 Procedures.
###### Officer notification.

(d)(1) As soon as possible, but not later than 15 calendar days after the date of receipt of notice, the designated official shall send to the officer, at his/her duty station or last known address, written notice:

(i) That notice has been received from an authorized person, including a copy of the documents submitted;

(ii) Of the maximum limitations set forth, with a request that the officer submit supporting affidavits or other documentation necessary for determining the applicable percentage limitation;

(iii) That the officer may submit supporting affidavits or other documentation as evidence that the information contained in the notice is in error;

(iv) That by submitting supporting affidavits or other necessary documentation, the officer consents to the disclosure of such information to the party requesting the support allotment;

(v) Of the amount or percentage that will be deducted if the officer fails to submit the documentation necessary to enable the designated official to respond to the notice within the prescribed time limits;

(vi) That legal counsel will be provided by the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Administration; and

(vii) Of the date that the allotment is scheduled to begin.

(2) The officer shall be provided with the following:

(i) A consultation in person with an attorney from the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Administration, to discuss the legal and other factors involved with the officer's support obligation and his/her failures to make payment.

(ii) Copies of any other documents submitted with the notice.

(3) The Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Administration will make every effort to see that the officer receives a consultation concerning the support obligation and the consequences of failure to make payments within 30 days of the notice required in paragraph (d)(1). In the event such consultation is not possible, despite continuing good faith efforts to arrange a consultation, no action shall be taken to require an allotment from the pay and allowances of any NOAA Corps Officer until 30 days have elapsed after the notice described in paragraph (d)(1) is given to the affected officer.

(4) If, within 30 days of the date of the notice, the officer has furnished the designated official affidavits or other documentation showing the information in the notice to be in error, the designated official shall consider the officer's response. The designated official may return to the authorized person, without action, the notice for a statutorily required support allotment together with the member's affidavit and other documentation, if the member submits substantial proof of error, such as:

(i) The support payments are not delinquent.

(ii) The underlying support order in the notice has been amended, superseded, or set aside.
