
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 911 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES CONCERNING USE OF THE NOAA SPACE-BASED DATA COLLECTION SYSTEMS
###### ยง 911.4 Use of the NOAA Data Collection Systems.

(a) Use of the NOAA DCS will only be authorized in accordance with the conditions and requirements set forth in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section.

(b)(1) Use of the NOAA DCS will only be authorized where it is determined that there are no commercial space-based services available that meet the user's requirements.

(2) A determination under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be based on such factors as satellite coverage, accuracy, data throughput, platform power consumption, size and weight, service continuity and reliability, platform compatibility, system access mode, and, in the case of government agencies, cost-effectiveness.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section, NOAA DCS shall only be used for the collection of environmental data by governmental and/or non-profit users.

(2) Non-governmental, environmental use of the NOAA DCS is only authorized where there is a Government interest in the collection and/or receipt of the data.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, non-environmental use of the NOAA DCS is only authorized for government use and non-profit users where there is a government interest. The NOAA DCS will continue to be predominantly used for environmental applications. Non-environmental use of the system shall be limited to sensitive use, and to episodic use as defined below in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(4) Episodic use of the NOAA DCS may also be authorized in specific instances where there is a significant possibility for loss of life. Such use shall be closely monitored.

(5) Testing use of the NOAA DCS will only be authorized for manufacturers of NOAA DCS platforms, that require access to the system in order to test and certify prototype and production models.

(d) Because of capacity limitations on the GOES DCS, system applicants will be admitted to use the GOES system in accordance with the following priority:

(1) NOAA programs or users whose data are required for implementation of NOAA programs, as determined by the Assistant Administrator, will be accorded first priority.

(2) Users whose data are desired to support NOAA programs will be accorded second priority.

(3) Users whose data and/or use of the GOES DCS will further a program of an agency or department of the U.S. Government, other than NOAA, will be accorded third priority.

(4) Users whose data are required by a state or local Government of the United States will be accorded fourth priority.

(5) Testing users of the system will be accorded fifth priority.

(6) No other usage will be authorized for the GOES DCS.

(e) In the event that Argos DCS capacity limitations require that priority determinations be made, priority will be given to those platforms that provide environmental data of broad international interest, especially of an operational nature, and to those requiring the unique capabilities of the Argos DCS, such as platform location or polar coverage.
