
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 911 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES CONCERNING USE OF THE NOAA SPACE-BASED DATA COLLECTION SYSTEMS
###### ยง 911.5 NOAA Data Collection Systems Use Agreements.

(a)(1) In order to use a NOAA DCS, each user must have an agreement with the approving authority for that system.

(2) Persons interested in entering into a system use agreement should contact the Director.

(b) These agreements will address, but may not be limited to, the following matters:

(1) The period of time the agreement is valid and procedures for its termination,

(2) The authorized use(s), and its priorities for use,

(3) The extent of the availability of commercial space-based services which meet the user's requirements and the reasons for necessitating the use of the Government system,

(4) Any applicable government interest in the data,

(5) Required equipment standards,

(6) Standards of operation,

(7) Conformance with applicable ITU and FCC agreements and regulations,

(8) Reporting time and frequencies,

(9) Data formats,

(10) Data delivery systems and schedules, and

(11) User-borne costs.

(c) The Director shall evaluate user requests for System Use Agreements and renewals and conclude agreements for use of the NOAA DCS.

(d)(1) Agreements for the collection, via the Argos DCS, of environmental data by government agencies or non-profit institutions shall be valid for 3 years from the date of initial in-situ deployment of the platforms, and may be renewed for additional 3-year periods.

(2) Agreements for the collection of environmental data, via the Argos DCS, by non-government users shall be valid for 1 year from the date of initial in-situ deployment of the platforms, and may be renewed for additional 1-year periods, but only for so long as there exists a governmental interest in the receipt of these data.

(3) Agreements for the collection of non-environmental data, via the Argos DCS, by government agencies, or non-profit institutions where there is a government interest, shall be valid for 1 year from the date of initial in-situ deployment of the platforms, and may be renewed for additional 1-year periods.

(4) Agreements for the episodic collection of non-environmental data, via the Argos DCS under ยง 911.4(c)(4), shall be of short, finite duration not to exceed 1 year without exception, and usually shall not exceed 6 months. These agreements shall be closely monitored and shall not be renewed.

(5) Agreements for the testing use of the Argos DCS by equipment manufacturers shall be valid for 1 year from the date of initial testing, and may be renewed for additional 1-year periods.

(e)(1) Agreements for the collection of environmental data, by the GOES DCS, shall be valid for 5 years from the date of initial in-situ deployment, and may be renewed for additional 5-year periods.

(2) Agreements for the testing use of the GOES DCS, by equipment manufacturers, shall be valid for 1 year from the date of initial testing, and may be renewed for additional 1-year periods.
