
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 918 - SEA GRANTS
###### ยง 918.3 Eligibility, qualifications, and responsibility of a Sea Grant College.
####### Support.

(9)The Sea Grant College candidate must have the ability to obtain matching funds from non-Federal sources, such as state legislatures, university management, state agencies, business, and industry. A diversity of matching fund sources is encouraged as a sign of program vitality and the ability to meet the Sea Grant requirement that funds for the general programs be matched with at least one non-Federal dollar for every two Federal dollars.

(c) Finally, it must be found that the Sea Grant College candidate will act in accordance with the following standards relating to its continuing responsibilities if it should be designated a Sea Grant College:

(1) Continue pursuit of excellence and high performance in marine research, education, training, and advisory services.

(2) Provide leadership in marine activities including coordinated planning and cooperative work with local, state, regional, and Federal agencies, other Sea Grant Programs, and non-Sea Grant universities.

(3) Maintain an effective management framework and application of institutional resources to the achievement of Sea Grant objectives.

(4) Develop and implement long-term plans for research, education, training, and advisory services consistent with Sea Grant goals and objectives.

(5) Advocate and further the Sea Grant concept and the full development of its potential within the institution and the state.

(6) Provide adequate and stable matching financial support for the program from non-Federal sources.

(7) Establish and operate an effective system to control the quality of its Sea Grant programs.
