
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 918 - SEA GRANTS
###### ยง 918.5 Eligibility, qualifications, and responsibilities - Sea Grant Regional Consortia.
####### Support.

(8)The Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate must have the ability to obtain matching funds from non-Federal sources, such as State legislatures, university management, State agencies, and business and industry. A diversity of matching funds sources is encouraged as a sign of program vitality and the ability to meet the Sea Grant requirement that funds for the general programs be matched with at least one non-Federal dollar for every two Federal dollars.

(c) Finally, it must be found that the Sea Grant Regional Consortium candidate will act in accordance with the following standards relating to its continuing responsibilities as a Sea Grant Regional Consortium:

(1) Continue pursuit of excellence and high performance in marine research education, training, and advisory services.

(2) Provide regional leadership in marine activities including coordinated planning and cooperative work with local, State, regional, and Federal agencies, other Sea Grant Programs, and non-Sea Grant organizations.

(3) Maintain an effective management framework and application of organizational resources to the achievement of Sea Grant objectives.

(4) Develop and implement long-term plans for research, education, training, and advisory services consistent with Sea Grant goals and objectives.

(5) Advocate and further the Sea Grant concept and the full development of its potential within the consortium and the region.

(6) Provide adequate and stable matching financial support for the program from non-Federal sources.

(7) Establish and operate an effective system to control the quality of its Sea Grant program.
