
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 921 - NATIONAL ESTUARINE RESEARCH RESERVE SYSTEM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart D - Reserve Designation and Subsequent Operation
####### § 921.33 Boundary changes, amendments to the management plan, and addition of multiple-site components.

(a) Changes in the boundary of a Reserve and major changes to the final management plan, including state laws or regulations promulgated specifically for the Reserve, may be made only after written approval by NOAA. NOAA may require public notice, including notice in theand an opportunity for public comment before approving a boundary or management plan change. Changes in the boundary of a Reserve involving the acquisition of properties not listed in the management plan or final EIS require public notice and the opportunity for comment; in certain cases, a categorical exclusion, an environmental assessment and possibly an environmental impact statement may be required. NOAA will place a notice in theof any proposed changes in Reserve boundaries or proposed major changes to the final management plan. The state shall be responsible for publishing an equivalent notice in the local media. See also requirements of §§ 921.4(b) and 921.13(a)(11).

(b) As discussed in § 921.10(b), a state may choose to develop a multiple-site National Estuarine Research Reserve after the initial acquisition and development award for a single site has been made. NOAA will publish notice of the proposed new site including an invitation for comments from the public in theThe state shall be responsible for publishing an equivalent notice in the local newspaper(s). An EIS, if required, shall be prepared in accordance with section § 921.13 and shall include an administrative framework for the multiple-site Reserve and a description of the complementary research and educational programs within the Reserve. If NOAA determines, based on the scope of the project and the issues associated with the additional site(s), that an environmental assessment is sufficient to establish a multiple-site Reserve, then the state shall develop a revised management plan which, concerning the additional component, incorporates each of the elements described in § 921.13(a). The revised management plan shall address goals and objectives for all components of the multi-site Reserve and the additional component's relationship to the original site(s).

(c) The state shall revise the management plan for a Reserve at least every five years, or more often if necessary. Management plan revisions are subject to (a) above.

(d) NOAA will approve boundary changes, amendments to management plans, or the addition of multiple-site components, by notice in theIf necessary NOAA will revise the designation document (findings) for the site.
