
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 921 - NATIONAL ESTUARINE RESEARCH RESERVE SYSTEM REGULATIONS
###### Appendix II to Part 921 - Typology of National Estuarine Research Reserves
####### F. Intertidal algal beds.

These are hard substrates along the marine edge that are dominated by macroscopic algae, usually thalloid, but also filamentous or unicellular in growth form. This also includes the rocky coast tidepools that fall within the intertidal zone. Dominant fauna of these areas are barnacles, mussels, periwinkles, anemones, and chitons. Three regions are apparent:

1. Northern latitude rocky shores: It is in this region that the community structure is best developed. The dominant algal species include Chondrus at the low tide level, Fucus and Ascophylium at the mid-tidal level, and Laminaria and other kelplike algae just beyond the intertidal, although they can be exposed at extremely low tides or found in very deep tidepools.

2. Southern latitudes: The communities in this region are reduced in comparison to those of the northern latitudes and possesses algae consisting mostly of single-celled or filamentour green, blue-green, and red algae, and small thalloid brown algae.

3. Tropical and subtropical latitudes: The intertidal in this region is very reduced and contains numerous calcareous algae such as Porolithon and Lithothamnion, as well and green algae with calcareous particles such as Halimeda, and numerous other green, red, and brown algae.
