
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 921 - NATIONAL ESTUARINE RESEARCH RESERVE SYSTEM REGULATIONS
###### Appendix II to Part 921 - Typology of National Estuarine Research Reserves
####### A. Salinity.

This reflects a complex mixture of salts, the most abundant being sodium chloride, and is a very critical factor in the distribution and maintenance of many estuarine organisms. Based on salinity, there are two basic estuarine types and eight different salinity zones (expressed in parts per thousand-ppt.)

1. Positive estuary: This is an estuary in which the freshwater influx is sufficient to maintain mixing, resulting in a pattern of increasing salinity toward the estuary mouth. It is characterized by low oxygen concentration in the deeper waters and considerable organic content in bottom sediments.

2. Negative estuary: This is found in particularly arid regions, where estuary evaporation may exceed freshwater inflow, resulting in increased salinity in the upper part of the basin, especially if the estuary mouth is restricted so that tidal flow is inhibited. These are typically very salty (hyperhaline), moderately oxygenated at depth, and possess bottom sediments that are poor in organic content.

3. Salinity zones (expressed in ppt):

a. Hyperhaline-greater than 40 ppt.

b. Euhaline-40 ppt to 30 ppt.

c. Mixhaline-30 ppt to 0.5 ppt.

(1) Mixoeuhaline-greater than 30 ppt but less than the adjacent euhaline sea.

(2) Polyhaline-30 ppt to 18 ppt.

(3) Mesohaline-18 ppt to 5 ppt.

(4) Oligohaline-5 ppt to 0.5 ppt.

d. Limnetic: Less than 0.5 ppt.
