
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart A - Regulations of General Applicability
####### ยง 922.1 Purposes and applicability of the regulations.
######## et seq.,

(1) To implement title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1431also known as the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA or Act)), the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary and Protection Act (FKNMSPA) (Pub. L. 101-605) and the Hawaiian Islands National Marine Sanctuary Act (sections 2301-2307 of Pub. L. 102-587); and

(2) To implement the designations of the national marine sanctuaries, for which site specific regulations appear in subparts F through T of this part, by regulating activities affecting them, consistent with their respective terms of designation, in order to protect, restore, preserve, manage, and thereby ensure the health, integrity and continued availability of the conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, scientific, educational, cultural, archeological and aesthetic resources and qualities of these areas.

(b) The regulations of this part are binding on any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Designation of a national marine sanctuary beyond the U.S. territorial sea does not constitute any claim to territorial jurisdiction on the part of the United States. The regulations of this part shall be applied in accordance with generally recognized principles of international law,and in accordance with treaties, conventions, and other agreements to which the United States is a party. No regulation of this part shall apply to a person who is not a citizen, national, or resident alien of the United States, unless in accordance with:

(1) Generally recognized principles of international law;

(2) An agreement between the United States and the foreign state of which the person is a citizen; or

(3) An agreement between the United States and the flag state of the foreign vessel, if the person is a crew member of the vessel.

(c) Unless noted otherwise, the regulations in this subpart and subpart D of this part apply to all national marine sanctuaries immediately upon designation.
