
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart A - Regulations of General Applicability
####### ยง 922.12 Sanctuary nomination process.
######## see,www.sanctuaries.noaa.gov

(a) The sanctuary nomination process (National Marine Sanctuaries website) is the means by which the public can submit areas of the marine and Great Lakes environments for consideration by NOAA as a national marine sanctuary.

(b) The Director will consider the following national significance criteria in determining if a nominated area is of special national significance:

(1) The area's natural resources and ecological qualities are of special significance and contribute to: biological productivity or diversity; maintenance or enhancement of ecosystem structure and function; maintenance of ecologically or commercially important species or species assemblages; maintenance or enhancement of critical habitat, representative biogeographic assemblages, or both; or maintenance or enhancement of connectivity to other ecologically significant resources.

(2) The area contains submerged maritime heritage resources of special historical, cultural, or archaeological significance, that: individually or collectively are consistent with the criteria of eligibility or listing on the National Register of Historic Places; have met or which would meet the criteria for designation as a National Historic Landmark; or have special or sacred meaning to the indigenous people of the region or nation.

(3) The area supports present and potential economic uses, such as: tourism; commercial and recreational fishing; subsistence and traditional uses; diving; and other recreational uses that depend on conservation and management of the area's resources.

(4) The publicly-derived benefits of the area, such as aesthetic value, public recreation, and access to places depend on conservation and management of the area's resources.

(c) The Director will consider the following management considerations in determining the manageability of a nominated area:

(1) The area provides or enhances opportunities for research in marine science, including marine archaeology.

(2) The area provides or enhances opportunities for education, including the understanding and appreciation of the marine and Great Lakes environments.

(3) Adverse impacts from current or future uses and activities threaten the area's significance, values, qualities, and resources.

(4) A national marine sanctuary would provide unique conservation and management value for this area that also have beneficial values for adjacent areas.

(5) The existing regulatory and management authorities for the area could be supplemented or complemented to meet the conservation and management goals for the area.

(6) There are commitments or possible commitments for partnerships opportunities such as cost sharing, office space or exhibit space, vessel time, or other collaborations to aid conservation or management programs for the area.
