
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 16 - PROCEDURES FOR A VOLUNTARY CONSUMER PRODUCT INFORMATION LABELING PROGRAM
#### ยง 16.7 Participation in program.

(a) Any manufacturer, assembler, or private brand labeler of consumer products or importer of such products for resale, desiring to participate in this program will so notify the Secretary. The notification will identify the particular Specification to be used and the prospective participant's identification and model numbers for the products to be labeled. The notification must include a statement that if accepted as a participant in the program by the Secretary, the prospective participant will:

(1) Abide by all conditions imposed by these procedures:

(2) Abide by the conditions contained in the Specification, as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section;

(3) Pay the fees and charges established by the Secretary; and

(4) Desist from using the Department of Commerce label and Mark if his participation is terminated under ยง 16.8.

(b) The Secretary shall act expeditiously on all requests to participate in the program and shall notify each prospective participant of her decision in writing. In those instances where the Secretary declines a request, she shall state the reasons for so declining.

(c) If a prospective participant seeking to participate in the program is notified by the Secretary that she proposes to deny that prospective participant the right to participate, that prospective participant shall have thirty (30) days from the receipt of such notification to request a hearing under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 556. The Secretary's proposed denial shall become final through the issuance of a written decision to such prospective participant in the event that he does not appeal such notification by the end of the thirty (30) day period. If however, such prospective participant requests a hearing within that thirty (30) day period, the Secretary's proposed denial shall be stayed pending the outcome of the hearing held pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556.

(d) The conditions set out in each Specification will include, but not be limited to, the following:

(1) Prior to the use of a Label, the participant will make or have made the measurements to obtain the information required for inclusion on the Label and, if requested, will forward within 30 days such measurement data to the Secretary. Such measurement data will be kept on file by the participant or his agent for two years after that product is no longer manufactured unless otherwise provided in the Specification.

(2) The participant will describe the test results on the Label as prescribed in the Specification.

(3) The participant will display or arrange to display, in accordance with the appropriate Specification, the Label on or with each individual product of the type covered except for units exported from the U.S. Participants who utilized more than one brand name may participate by labeling some or all of the brand names. All models with the same brand name must be included in the program unless they are for export only.

(4) The participant agrees at his expense to comply with any reasonable request of the Secretary to have consumer products manufactured, assembled, imported, or privately brand labeled by him tested to determine that testing has been done according to the relevant Specification.
