
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 16 - PROCEDURES FOR A VOLUNTARY CONSUMER PRODUCT INFORMATION LABELING PROGRAM
#### ยง 16.9 Rules governing designated agents.

(a) The following rules, requirements and tasks shall be applicable with respect to the seeking of designated agent status and the performance of that role after such status has been obtained. Each person desiring to be designated as a designated agent under this program shall:

(1) Make written application to the Secretary;

(2) Provide appropriate information showing his qualifications to represent members within a given product area and that more than one prospective participant in that product area is agreeable to such representation; and

(3) Agree to service any participant in this program in the agent's cognizant product area whether or not such participant is a member of the organization or body which that agent represents.

(b) The Secretary may require a person seeking designated agent status to supply further information before granting such status to that person. The Secretary will notify each person seeking designated agent status, in writing, as expeditiously as possible after evaluating such person's application.

(c) Each person granted designated agent status shall:

(1) Provide the Secretary with a list of the participants that the designated agent services under the program. The Secretary shall also be provided an updated list as soon thereafter as may be practicable whenever there are any changes in the list;

(2) Collect fees and charges from the participants serviced under this program, consolidate such sums, and transmit those fees and charges required under ยง 16.6 to the Secreatry;

(3) Distribute Department of Commerce Marks developed under ยง 16.10 or instructions for the printing of such Marks to the participants that the designated agent services under this program;

(4) Gather and consolidate such statistical information as may be required by the Secretary from individual participants serviced;

(5) Provide the Secretary with reports, including the consolidate statistical information referred to in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, as may be called for by her, relative to the activities of the participants the designated agent is servicing; and

(6) Perform any additional tasks mutually agreed upon by the designated agent and the Secretary.

(d) If a person seeking designated agent status is notified by the Secretary that she proposes to deny that person such status, that person shall have thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of such notification to request a hearing under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 556. The Secretary's proposed denial shall become final through the issuance of a written decision to such person in the event that he does not appeal such notification by the end of that thirty (30) day period. If, however, such person requests a hearing within that thirty (30) day period, the Secretary proposed denial shall be stayed pending the outcome of the hearing held pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556.

(e) If the Secretary finds that a designated agent has violated the terms of paragraph (c) of this section, she may, after consultations with such designated agent, notify such person that she proposes to revoke his status as a designated agent.

(f) Upon receipt of a notice from the Secretary of the proposed revocation, which notice shall set forth the reasons for such proposed revocation, the designated agent shall have thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of such notification to request a hearing under the provisions of U.S.C. 556. The Secretary's proposed revocation shall become final through the issuance of a written decision to the designated agent in the event such designated agent does not appeal the proposed revocation within that thirty (30) day period. If, however, the designated agent requires a hearing within that thirty (30) day period, the Secretary's proposed revocation shall be stayed pending the outcome of the hearing held pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556.
