
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart G - Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary
####### Appendix B to Subpart G of Part 922 - Marine Reserve Boundaries

[Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.]

The Richardson Rock Marine Reserve (Richardson Rock) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-1, and the following textual description.

The Richardson Rock boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends from Point 2 to Point 3 along a straight line. The boundary then extends along a straight line from Point 3 to the 3 nmi State boundary established under the Submerged Lands Act (3 nmi State boundary) where a line defined by connecting Point 3 and Point 4 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary then extends northwestward and then eastward along the 3 nmi State boundary until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 5 and Point 6 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi SLA boundary to Point 6 along a straight line.

The Harris Point Marine Reserve (Harris Point) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-2, and the following textual description.

The Harris Point boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary then follows the 3 nmi State boundary northwestward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.

The South Point Marine Reserve (South Point) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-3, and the following textual description.

The South Point boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary follows the 3 nmi State boundary southeastward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 along a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.

The Gull Island Marine Reserve (Gull Island) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-4, and the following textual description.

The Gull Island boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary then follows the 3 nmi State boundary westward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.

The Scorpion Marine Reserve (Scorpion) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-5, and the following textual description.

The Scorpion boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary then follows the 3 nmi State boundary westward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.

The Footprint Marine Reserve (Footprint) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-6, and the following textual description.

The Footprint boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary follows the 3 nmi State boundary northeastward and then southeastward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 along a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.

The Anacapa Island Marine Reserve (Anacapa Island) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-7, and the following textual description.

The Anacapa Island boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Pont 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary follows the 3 nmi State boundary westward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line.

The Santa Barbara Island Marine Reserve (Santa Barbara) boundary is defined by the 3 nmi State boundary, the coordinates provided in Table B-8, and the following textual description.

The Santa Barbara boundary extends from Point 1 to Point 2 along a straight line. It then extends along a straight line from Point 2 to the 3 nmi State boundary where a line defined by connecting Point 2 and Point 3 with a straight line intersects the 3 nmi State boundary. The boundary follows the 3 nmi State boundary northeastward until it intersects the line defined by connecting Point 4 and Point 5 with a straight line. At that intersection, the boundary extends from the 3 nmi State boundary to Point 5 along a straight line. The boundary then extends from Point 5 to Point 6 along a straight line.
