
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart H - Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary
####### Appendix B to Subpart H of Part 922 - No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zones in Tomales Bay

Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.

(1) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 1 encompasses an area of approximately .11 square nautical miles (.15 square miles) offshore south of Millerton Point. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The eastern boundary is a straight line arc that connects points 1 and 2 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary is a straight line arc that connects points 2 and 3, the western boundary is a straight line arc that connects points 3 and 4 and the northern boundary is a straight line arc that connects point 4 to point 5.

(2) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 2 encompasses an area of approximately .15 square nautical miles (.19 square miles) that begins just south of Marconi and extends approximately 1.6 nautical miles (1.9 miles) south along the eastern shore of Tomales Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary is a series of straight line arcs that sequentially connect point 1 to point 5 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary is a straight line arc that extends from point 5 towards point 6 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the eastern boundary follows the Mean High Water Line north until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 7 to point 8. From this intersection the northern boundary extends to point 8.

(3) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 3 encompasses an area of approximately .01 square nautical miles (.02 square miles) that begins just south of Marshall and extends approximately .5 nautical miles (.6 miles) south along the eastern shore of Tomales Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary is a straight line arc that connects point 1 to point 2 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary is a straight line arc that extends from point 2 towards point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the eastern boundary follows the Mean High Water Line northward until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 4 to point 5. From this intersection the northern boundary extends westward along the straight line arc that connects point 4 to point 5.

(4) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 4 is an area of approximately .18 square nautical miles (.21 square miles) that begins just north of Nicks Cove and extends approximately 2.7 nautical miles (3.1 miles) south along the eastern shore of Tomales Bay to just south of Cypress Grove. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary is a series of straight line arcs that sequentially connect point 1 to point 8 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary is a straight line arc that extends from point 8 towards point 9 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the eastern boundary follows the Mean High Water Line north until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 10 to point 11. From this intersection the northern boundary extends westward along the straight line arc that connects point 10 to point 11.

(5) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 5 encompasses an area of approximately 1.3 square nautical miles (1.6 square miles) that begins east of Lawson's Landing and extends approximately 2.7 nautical miles (3.1 miles) east and south along the eastern shore of Tomales Bay but excludes areas adjacent (approximately .32 nautical miles or .37 miles) to the mouth of Walker Creek. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary is a series of straight line arcs that sequentially connect point 1 to point 3 listed in the coordinate table below. From point 3 the southern boundary trends eastward along the straight line arc that connects point 3 to point 4 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the boundary follows the Mean High Water Line northward until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 5 to point 6. From this intersection the boundary extends westward along the straight line arc that connects point 5 to point 6. From point 6 the boundary follows the straight line arc that connects point 6 to point 7, and then extends along the straight line arc that connects point 7 to point 8 until it again intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the boundary follows the Mean High Water Line until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 9 to point 10. From this intersection the boundary extends to point 10 along the straight line arc that connects point 9 to point 10.

(6) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 6 encompasses an area of approximately .01 square nautical miles (.02 square miles) in the vicinity of Indian Beach along the western shore of Tomales Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The eastern boundary is a straight line arc that connects point 1 to point 2 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary extends westward along the straight line arc that connects point 2 to point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the eastern boundary follows the Mean High Water Line northward until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 3 to point 4. From this intersection the northern boundary extends eastward along the straight line arc that connects point 4 to point 5.

(7) No-Anchoring Seagrass Protection Zone 7 encompasses an area of approximately .09 square nautical miles (.12 square miles) that begins just south of Pebble Beach and extends approximately 1.6 nautical miles (1.9 miles) south along the western shore of Tomales Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The eastern boundary is a series of straight line arcs that sequentially connect point 1 to point 5 listed in the coordinate table below. The southern boundary extends along the straight line arc that connects point 5 to point 6 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line. From this intersection the western boundary extends north along the Mean High Water Line until it intersects the straight line arc that connects point 7 to point 8. From this intersection the northern boundary extends eastward along the straight line arc that connects point 7 to point 8.
