
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart H - Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary
####### Appendix D to Subpart H of Part 922 - Special Wildlife Protection Zones Within the Sanctuary

Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.

(1) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 1 (SWPZ 1) encompasses an area of approximately 7.9 square nautical miles (10.5 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 1 extends south from Point 1, west of Haven's Neck in Mendocino County, to Point 2, west of Del Mar Point. The boundary then extends east from Point 2 along a straight line arc connecting Point 2 and Point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line at Del Mar Point. The SWPZ 1 boundary then turns north to follow the Mean High Water Line towards Haven's Neck and continues until it intersects a straight line arc connecting Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the Sanctuary boundary continues west along its northernmost extent to Point 5.

(2) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 2 (SWPZ 2) encompasses an area of approximately 16.2 square nautical miles (21.4 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 2 extends south and east from Point 1, south of Windermere Point in Sonoma County, to Point 2 and then to Point 3 in sequence. Point 3 is west of Duncans Point in Sonoma County. The boundary then extends east from Point 3 along a straight line arc connecting Point 3 and Point 4 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line at Duncans Point. The boundary then turns north to follow the Mean High Water Line towards Windermere Point until it intersects a straight line arc connecting Point 5 and Point 6. From this intersection the boundary continues due south along a straight line arc to Point 6.

(3) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 3 (SWPZ 3) encompasses an area of approximately 7 square nautical miles (9.3 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 3 extends south and east from Point 1, southwest of the Estero de San Antonio in Sonoma County, to Point 2, south of Tomales Point in Marin County. The boundary then extends north and east from Point 2 along a straight line arc connecting Point 2 and Point 3 until it intersects the boundary of the Point Reyes National Seashore. From this intersection the SWPZ 3 boundary follows the Point Reyes National Seashore boundary around Tomales Point into Tomales Bay and continues until it again intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 2 and Point 3. From this intersection the SWPZ 3 boundary follows the straight line arc north and east toward Point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line at Toms Point in Tomales Bay. The SWPZ 3 boundary then follows the Mean High Water Line northward towards the Estero de San Antonio until it intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the Sanctuary boundary continues south and west to Point 5.

(4) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 4 (SWPZ 4) encompasses an area of approximately 10.2 square nautical miles (13.5 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are list in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 4 extends south and west from Point 1, west of Point Reyes in Marin County, to Point 2, south and west of Point Reyes Lighthouse. The boundary then follows a straight line arc east and south from Point 2 to Point 3. From Point 3 the boundary follows a straight line arc north to Point 4. From Point 4 the SWPZ 4 boundary proceeds west along the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5 until it intersects the Point Reyes National Seashore boundary north of Chimney Rock. The SWPZ 4 boundary then follows the Point Reyes National Seashore boundary around Point Reyes until it again intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5 north of the Point Reyes Lighthouse. From this intersection the SWPZ 4 boundary turns seaward and continues west to Point 5.

(5) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 5 (SWPZ 5) encompasses an area of approximately 14.8 square nautical miles (19.6 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of SWPZ 5 extends south and east from Point 1, near Millers Point in Marin County, to Point 2, which is south and west of Bolinas Point. The SWPZ 5 boundary then follows a straight line arc east from Point 2 towards Point 3 until it intersects the Mean High Water Line at Rocky Point. From this intersection, the SWPZ 5 boundary follows the Sanctuary boundary north to Bolinas Point and Millers Point, respectively, including Bolinas Lagoon but not including Seadrift Lagoon, until it intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the SWPZ 5 boundary turns seaward and continues west and south along the straight line arc to Point 5.

(6) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 6 (SWPZ 6) encompasses an area of approximately 6.8 square nautical miles (9 square miles) and extends from the Mean High Water Line seaward to the SWPZ 6 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary of SWPZ 6 extends south and west from Point 1, north of Southeast Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.

(7) Special Wildlife Protection Zone 7 (SWPZ 7) encompasses an area of approximately 6 square nautical miles (7.9 square miles) and extends from the Mean High Water Line seaward to the SWPZ 7 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary of SWPZ 7 extends south and west from Point 1, north of North Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.
