
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart H - Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary
####### Appendix E to Subpart H of Part 922 - Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zones in the Sanctuary

Coordinates listed in this appendix are unprojected (Geographic) and based on the North American Datum of 1983.

(1) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 1 (CVPZ 1) is an area of approximately 20 square nautical miles (26 square miles) immediately offshore of Anchor Bay. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western boundary of extends south and east from Point 1, north and west of Haven's Neck, to Point 2, west and south of Del Mar Point. The CVPZ 1 boundary then extends east from Point 2 along a straight line arc connecting Point 2 and Point 3 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary. The CVPZ 1 boundary then turns north to follow the Sanctuary boundary past Haven's Neck and continues until it intersects the straight line arc connecting Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the CVPZ 1 boundary continues west along its northernmost extent to Point 5.

(2) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 2 (CVPZ 2) encompasses an area of approximately 30 square nautical miles (40 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western CVPZ 2 boundary extends south and east from Point 1, west of Windermere Point in Sonoma County, to Point 2 and then to Point 3 in sequence. Point 3 is west of Duncans Point in Sonoma County. The CVPZ 2 boundary then extends east from Point 3 along a straight line arc connecting Point 3 and Point 4 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary south of Duncans Point. The CVPZ 2 boundary then turns north to follow the Sanctuary boundary past Windermere Point until it intersects the straight line arc connecting Point 5 and Point 6. From this intersection the CVPZ 2 boundary continues due south along this straight line arc to Point 6.

(3) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 3 (CVPZ 3) encompasses an area of approximately 17 square nautical miles (22 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western CVPZ 3 boundary extends south and east from Point 1, west of the Estero de San Antonio in Sonoma County, to Point 2, south of Tomales Point in Marin County. The CVPZ 3 boundary then extends north and east from Point 2 along a straight line arc connecting Point 2 and Point 3 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary. From this intersection the CVPZ 3 boundary follows the Sanctuary boundary around Tomales Point into Tomales Bay and continues until it again intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 2 and Point 3. From this intersection the CVPZ 3 boundary follows the straight line arc north and east across Tomales Bay until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary south of Toms Point in Tomales Bay. The CVPZ 3 boundary then follows the Sanctuary boundary northward past the Estero de San Antonio until it intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the boundary continues south and west to Point 5.

(4) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 4 (CVPZ 4) encompasses an area of approximately 28 square nautical miles (37 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western CVPZ 4 boundary extends south and west from Point 1, west and north of Point Reyes in Marin County, to Point 2, south and west of Point Reyes Lighthouse. The CVPZ 4 boundary then follows a straight line arc east and south from Point 2 to Point 3. From Point 3 the CVPZ 4 boundary follows a straight line arc north to Point 4. From Point 4 the CVPZ 4 boundary proceeds west along the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary at Drakes Beach. The CVPZ 4 boundary then follows the Sanctuary boundary around Point Reyes until it again intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5, north of the Point Reyes Lighthouse. From this intersection the CVPZ 4 boundary turns seaward and continues west to Point 5 along this arc.

(5) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 5 (CVPZ 5) encompasses an area of approximately 29 square nautical miles (39 square miles). The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The western CVPZ 5 boundary extends south and east from Point 1, west of Millers Point in Marin County, to Point 2, south and west of Bolinas Point. The CVPZ 5 boundary then follows a straight line arc east from Point 2 towards Point 3 until it intersects the Sanctuary boundary. From this intersection, the CVPZ 5 boundary follows the Sanctuary boundary north towards Rocky Point and continues along the Sanctuary boundary past Bolinas Point and Millers Point, respectively, including Bolinas Lagoon but not including Seadrift Lagoon, until it intersects the straight line arc that connects Point 4 and Point 5. From this intersection the CVPZ 5 boundary turns seaward and continues west and south along the straight line arc to Point 5.

(6) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 6 (CVPZ 6) encompasses an area of approximately 21 square nautical miles (28 square miles) surrounding Southeast Farallon Island and extends from the Mean High Water Line to the CVPZ 6 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary extends south and west from Point 1, north of Southeast Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.

(7) Cargo Vessel Prohibition Zone 7 (CVPZ 7) encompasses an area of approximately 20 square nautical miles (26 square miles) surrounding the North Farallon Islands and extends from the Mean High Water Line to the CVPZ 7 boundary. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in the table following this description. The boundary extends south and west from Point 1, north of North Farallon Island, along a straight line arc to Point 2, then south and east along a straight line arc to Point 3, then north and east along a straight line arc to Point 4, then north and west along a straight line arc to Point 5.
