
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart I - Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary
####### § 922.92 Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities - Sanctuary-wide.

(a) Except as may be necessary for national defense (subject to the terms and conditions of Article 5, Section 2 of the Designation Document) or to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment, or except as may be permitted by the Director in accordance with subpart D of this part and § 922.93 and § 922.94, the following activities are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted within the Sanctuary:

(1) Dredging, drilling into, or otherwise altering in any way the submerged lands of the Sanctuary (including bottom formations).

(2) Constructing any structure other than a navigation aid, or constructing, placing, or abandoning any structure, material, or other matter on the submerged lands of the Sanctuary except weighted marker buoys that are continuously tended and used during otherwise lawful fishing or diving activities and that are not attached to a vessel and not capable of holding a boat at anchor. Weights used with a marker buoy shall not have a combined weight of more than 10 pounds, shall be attached with not greater than one-fourth inch (&#x2033;) line and shall be removed from the Sanctuary within twelve (12) hours of deployment. Any weighted marker buoy that is not continuously tended may be removed by the Assistant Administrator or designee or an authorized officer, without notice.

(3) Discharging or depositing any material or other matter except:

(i) Fish or fish parts, bait, or chumming materials;

(ii) Effluent from marine sanitation devices; and

(iii) Vessel cooling water.

(4) Operating a watercraft other than in accordance with the Federal rules and regulations that would apply if there were no Sanctuary.

(5)(i) Injuring, catching, harvesting, or collecting, or attempting to injure, catch, harvest, or collect, any marine organism, or any part thereof, living or dead, within the Sanctuary by any means except by use of rod and reel, and handline gear;

(ii) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any marine organism or part thereof referenced in this paragraph found in the possession of a person within the Sanctuary has been collected from the Sanctuary.

(6) Using any fishing gear within the Sanctuary except rod and reel, and handline gear, or for law enforcement purposes.

(7) Using underwater any explosives, or devices that produce electric charges underwater.

(8) Breaking, cutting, damaging, taking, or removing any bottom formation.

(9) Moving, removing, damaging, or possessing, or attempting to move, remove, damage, or possess, any Sanctuary historical resource.

(10) Anchoring, or attempting to anchor, any vessel in the Sanctuary, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section when responding to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment.

(11) Possessing or carrying any fishing gear within the Sanctuary except:

(i) Rod and reel, and handline gear;

(ii) Fishing gear other than rod and reel, handline gear, and spearfishing gear, provided that it is stowed on a vessel and not available for immediate use;

(iii) Spearfishing gear provided that it is stowed on a vessel, not available for immediate use, and the vessel is passing through the Sanctuary without interruption; and

(iv) For law enforcement purposes.

(b) All activities currently carried out by the Department of Defense within the Sanctuary are essential for the national defense and, therefore, not subject to the prohibitions in this section and § 922.94. The exemption of additional activities having significant impacts shall be determined in consultation between the Director and the Department of Defense.

(c) The prohibitions in this section and in § 922.94 do not apply to any activity conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.93.

(d) The prohibitions in this section and in § 922.94 do not apply to any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment.
