
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart J - National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa
####### ยง 922.101 Boundary.
######## Swains Island Unit.

(d)The Swains Island Unit boundary is defined by the coordinates in Table 3 and the following textual description. The seaward boundary of the Swains Island Unit approximates the three nautical mile territorial sea boundary from the mean higher high water line (shoreline) of the island. The seaward boundary begins south of the island at Point 1 and continues initially to the west in sequential order clockwise around the island to Point 33. The landward boundary of the Swains Island Unit is the mean higher high water line and begins on the northern shoreline of the island and follows the shoreline counterclockwise initially to the west until it intersects the line segment between Point 34 and 35. From this intersection the boundary continues offshore to the northwest to Point 35 and then to Point 36 and Point 37. From Point 37 the boundary continues east-northeast towards Point 38 until it intersects the shoreline. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline southeast around the southernmost part of the island and then to the northeast until it intersects the line segment between Point 39 and Point 40. From this intersection the boundary continues offshore to the southeast to Point 40 and then to the northeast to Point 41. From Point 41 the boundary continues to the northwest towards Point 42 until it intersects the shoreline. From this intersection the boundary follows the shoreline initially to the northeast around the island counterclockwise and then to the northwest back to where it began on the northern shoreline.
