
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart J - National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa
####### ยง 922.103 Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities - Sanctuary-wide.

(a) The following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted within the Sanctuary:

(1) Introducing or releasing introduced species from within or into the sanctuary.

(2) Anchoring a vessel.

(3) Deserting a vessel aground, adrift, or at anchor.

(4) Leaving harmful matter on an abandoned or deserted vessel or structure.

(5) Operating a vessel at a speed exceeding three knots when closer than 200 feet (60.96 meters) of another vessel displaying a dive flag.

(6) Operating a vessel in a manner which causes the vessel to strike or otherwise cause damage to Sanctuary resources.

(7) Diving, snorkeling, or conducting diving or snorkeling operations from a vessel not in compliance with applicable U.S. Coast Guard navigation rules governing the display of lights and signals, and not flying in a conspicuous manner the international code flag alpha "A" or the standard red-and-white U.S. "diver down" flag.

(8) Discharging, or depositing from within or into the Sanctuary, any material or other matter, except clean vessel deck wash down, clean vessel engine cooling water, clean vessel generator cooling water, clean bilge water, anchor wash, or vessel engine or generator exhaust.

(9) Discharging or depositing from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary any material or other matter that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality, except those listed in paragraph (a)(8) of this section and ยง 922.105(c).

(10) Sand mining, dredging, filling, dynamiting, or otherwise disturbing or altering the seabed.

(11) Removing, damaging, or tampering with any historical or cultural resource.
