
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart J - National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa
####### § 922.103 Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities - Sanctuary-wide.
######## et seq.,,et seq.,,et seq.,

(12) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or seabird within or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703or any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA.

(13) Using or discharging explosives or weapons of any description. Distress signaling devices, necessary and proper for safe vessel operation, and knives generally used by fishermen and swimmers shall not be considered weapons for purposes of this section.

(14) Marking, defacing, or damaging in any way, or displacing or removing or tampering with any signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or permanent, or with any monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers related to the Sanctuary.

(15) Abandoning a structure, material, or other matter on or in the submerged lands of the Sanctuary.

(b) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (15) of this section, § 922.104, and § 922.105 do not apply to any activity necessary for national defense.

(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (15) of this section, § 922.104, and § 922.105 do not apply to any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life, property, or the environment.

(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (15) of this section, § 922.104, and § 922.105 do not apply to any activity necessary for valid law enforcement purposes in the Sanctuary.

(e) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (15) of this section and §§ 922.104 and 922.105 do not apply to any activity conducted under and in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms, and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part and § 922.107.
