
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart J - National Marine Sanctuary of American Samoa
####### § 922.105 Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities - Unit-specific.

In addition to the prohibitions set forth in § 922.103 and § 922.104, the following regulations apply to activities conducted within specified Sanctuary units described in the appendix to this subpart.

(a) The following activities are prohibited in the Fagatele Bay Unit:

(1) Harvesting, catching, removing, taking, injuring, destroying, collecting, moving, possessing or causing the loss of any Sanctuary resource, including but not limited to fishing, or attempting any of these activities.

(2) Possessing fishing gear unless such gear is stowed and not available for immediate use.

(b) The following activities are prohibited in the Aunu'u Unit:

(1) In Zone A: Fishing from a vessel without providing notification to the Sanctuary Superintendent or his/her designee in the village of Aunu'u prior to each fishing trip.

(2) In Zone B:

(i) Fishing for bottom-dwelling species or otherwise harvesting, catching, removing, taking, injuring, destroying, collecting, moving, or causing the loss of any bottom-dwelling species, or attempting any of these activities. Surface fishing for pelagic species, including trolling, is allowed.

(ii) Disturbing the benthic community.

(iii) Possessing any Sanctuary resource, except legally harvested fish on board a vessel.

(c) In the Muli&#x101;va Unit:

(1) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (7) and (a)(9) through (15) of § 922.103 do not apply to scientific exploration or research activities conducted by or for the Department of Commerce or the Department of the Interior.

(2) Notwithstanding the prohibition in § 922.103(a)(8), the following vessels may discharge treated waste from a U.S. Coast Guard approved Type I, II, or III Marine Sanitation device 12 nautical miles seaward of the Rose Atoll National Wildlife Refuge:

(i) Vessels engaged in scientific exploration or research activities conducted by or for the Department of Commerce or the Department of the Interior; or

(ii) All other vessels engaged in scientific exploration or research activities, if authorized under a permit issued in consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and in accordance with § 922.48 and § 922.107.
