
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart K - Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary
####### ยง 922.110 Boundary.

The Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) boundary encompasses a total area of approximately 971 square nautical miles (nmi) (1,286 sq. mi.) of offshore ocean waters, and submerged lands thereunder, surrounding the submarine plateau known as Cordell Bank along the northern coast of California, approximately 45 nautical miles west-northwest of San Francisco, California. The precise boundary coordinates are listed in appendix A to this subpart. The northern boundary of the Sanctuary is a rhumb line that begins approximately 6 nautical miles (7 miles) west of Bodega Head in Sonoma County, California at Point 1 and extends west approximately 38 nautical miles (44 miles) to Point 2. This line is part of a shared boundary between the Sanctuary and Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary (GFNMS). The western boundary of the Sanctuary extends south from Point 2 approximately 34 nautical miles (39 miles) to Point 3. From Point 3 the Sanctuary boundary continues east 15 nautical miles (17 miles) to Point 4 where it intersects the GFNMS boundary again. The line from Point 3 to Point 4 forms the southernmost boundary of the Sanctuary. The eastern boundary of the Sanctuary is a series of straight lines connecting Points 4 through 20 in numerical sequence. The Sanctuary is coterminous with GFNMS along both its (the Sanctuary's) eastern and northern boundaries.
