
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart M - Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary
####### ยง 922.132 Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.
######## et seq.,,et seq.,,et seq.,

(5) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird within or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703or any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA.

(6) Disturbing marine mammals or seabirds by flying motorized aircraft, except as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes, at less than 1,000 feet above any of the four zones within the Sanctuary described in Appendix B to this subpart. Failure to maintain a minimum altitude of 1,000 feet above ground level above any such zone is presumed to disturb marine mammals or seabirds.

(7) Operating motorized personal watercraft within the Sanctuary except within the four designated zones and access routes within the Sanctuary described in appendix E to this subpart. Zone Five (at Pillar Point) exists only when a High Surf Advisory has been issued by the National Weather Service and is in effect for San Mateo County, and only during December, January, and February.

(8) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken, moved, or removed from), any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird, except as authorized by the MMPA, ESA, MBTA, by any regulation, as amended, promulgated under the MMPA, ESA, or MBTA, or as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes.

(9) Deserting a vessel aground, at anchor, or adrift in the Sanctuary.

(10) Leaving harmful matter aboard a grounded or deserted vessel in the Sanctuary.

(11)(i) Moving, removing, taking, collecting, catching, harvesting, disturbing, breaking, cutting, or otherwise injuring, or attempting to move, remove, take, collect, catch, harvest, disturb, break, cut, or otherwise injure, any Sanctuary resource located more that 3,000 feet below the sea surface within the Davidson Seamount Management Zone. This prohibition does not apply to fishing below 3000 feet within the Davidson Seamount Management Zone, which is prohibited pursuant to 50 CFR part 660 (Fisheries off West Coast States).

(ii) Possessing any Sanctuary resource the source of which is more than 3,000 feet below the sea surface within the Davidson Seamount Management Zone. This prohibition does not apply to possession of fish resulting from fishing below 3000 feet within the Davidson Seamount Management Zone, which is prohibited pursuant to 50 CFR part 660 (Fisheries off West Coast States).
