
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart O - Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary
####### ยง 922.150 Boundary.

(a) The Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary) consists of an area of approximately 2,408 square nautical miles (nmi) (3,188 sq. mi.) of coastal and ocean waters, and the submerged lands thereunder, off the central and northern coast of the State of Washington.

(b) The Sanctuary boundary extends from Koitlah Point due north to the United States/Canada international boundary. The Sanctuary boundary then follows the U.S./Canada international boundary seaward to the 100 fathom isobath. The seaward boundary of the Sanctuary approximates the 100 fathom isobath in a southerly direction from the U.S./Canada international boundary to a point due west of the mouth of the Copalis River cutting across the heads of Nitnat, Juan de Fuca and Quinault Canyons. The coastal boundary of the Sanctuary is the mean higher high water line when adjacent to Federally managed lands cutting across the mouths of all rivers and streams, except where adjacent to Indian reservations, State and county owned lands; in such case, the coastal boundary is the mean lower low water line. La Push harbor is excluded from the Sanctuary boundary shoreward of the International Collision at Sea regulation (Colreg.) demarcation lines. The boundary coordinates are listed in appendix A to this subpart.
