
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart P - Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary
####### ยง 922.163 Prohibited activities - Sanctuary-wide.
######## Operation of vessels.

(5)(i) Operating a vessel in such a manner as to strike or otherwise injure coral, seagrass, or any other immobile organism attached to the seabed, including, but not limited to, operating a vessel in such a manner as to cause prop-scarring.

(ii) Having a vessel anchored on living coral other than hardbottom in water depths less than 40 feet when visibility is such that the seabed can be seen.

(iii) Except in officially marked channels, operating a vessel at a speed greater than 4 knots or in manner which creates a wake:

(A) Within an area designated idle speed only/no wake;

(B) Within 100 yards of navigational aids indicating emergent or shallow reefs (international diamond warning symbol);

(C) Within 100 yards of the red and white "divers down" flag (or the blue and white "alpha" flag in Federal waters);

(D) Within 100 yards of residential shorelines; or

(E) Within 100 yards of stationary vessels.

(iv) Operating a vessel in such a manner as to injure or take wading, roosting, or nesting birds or marine mammals.

(v) Operating a vessel in a manner which endangers life, limb, marine resources, or property.

(vi) Having a marine sanitation device that is not secured in a manner that prevents discharges or deposits of treated and untreated sewage. Acceptable methods include, but are not limited to, all methods that have been approved by the U.S. Coast Guard (at 33 CFR 159.7(b) and (c)).
