
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart P - Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary
####### ยง 922.164 Additional activity regulations by Sanctuary area.
######## Wildlife management areas.

(c)(1) Marine portions of the Wildlife Management Areas listed in appendix III to this subpart or portions thereof may be designated "idle speed only/no-wake," "no-motor" or "no-access buffer" zones or "closed". The Director, in cooperation with other Federal, State, or local resource management authorities, as appropriate, shall post signs conspicuously, using mounting posts, buoys, or other means according to location and purpose, at appropriate intervals and locations, clearly delineating an area as an "idle speed only/no wake", a "no-motor", or a "no-access buffer" zone or as "closed", and allowing instant, long-range recognition by boaters. Such signs shall display the official logo of the Sanctuary.

(2) The following activities are prohibited within the marine portions of the Wildlife Management Areas listed in appendix III to this subpart:

(i) In those marine portions of any Wildlife Management Area designated an "idle speed only/no wake" zone in appendix III to this subpart, operating a vessel at a speed greater that idle speed only/no wake.

(ii) In those marine portions of any Wildlife Management Area designated a "no-motor" zone in appendix III to this subpart, using internal combustion motors or engines for any purposes. A vessel with an internal combustion motor or engine may access a "no-motor" zone only through the use of a push pole, paddle, sail, electric motor or similar means of propulsion.

(iii) In those marine portions of any Wildlife Management Area designated a "no-access buffer" zone in appendix III of this subpart, entering the area by vessel.

(iv) In those marine portions of any Wildlife Management Area designated as closed in appendix III of this subpart, entering or using the area.

(3) The Director shall coordinate with other Federal, State, or local resource management authorities, as appropriate, in the establishment and enforcement of access restrictions described in paragraph (c)(2) (i)-(iv) of this section in the marine portions of Wildlife Management Areas.

(4) The Director may modify the number and location of access restrictions described in paragraph (c)(2) (i)-(iv) of this section within the marine portions of a Wildlife Management Area if the Director finds that such action is reasonably necessary to minimize disturbances to Sanctuary wildlife, or to ensure protection and preservation of Sanctuary wildlife consistent with the purposes of the Sanctuary designation and other applicable law governing the protection and preservation of wildlife resources in the Sanctuary. The Director will effect such modification by:

(i) Publishing in theafter notice and an opportunity for public comments in accordance, an amendment to the list of such areas set forth in appendix III to this subpart, and a notice regarding the time and place where maps depicting the precise locations of such restrictions will be made available for public inspection, and

(ii) Posting official signs delineating such restrictions in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
