
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart R - Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve
####### ยง 922.193 Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted:

(1) Recovering, altering, destroying, possessing, or attempting to recover, alter, destroy, or possess an underwater cultural resource.

(2) Drilling into, dredging or otherwise altering the lakebottom associated with underwater cultural resources, including contextual information; or constructing, placing or abandoning any structure, material or other matter on the lakebottom associated with underwater cultural resources, except as an incidental result of:

(i) Anchoring vessels;

(ii) Traditional fishing operations; or

(iii) Minor projects (as defined in appendix B of this subpart) that do not adversely affect underwater cultural resources.

(3) Using grappling hooks or other anchoring devices on underwater cultural resource sites that are marked with a mooring buoy.

(4) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulations issued under the Act.

(b) Members of a federally-recognized Indian tribe may exercise treaty-secured rights, subject to the requirements of other applicable law, without regard to the requirements of this subpart. The Director may consult with the governing body of a tribe regarding ways the tribe may exercise such rights consistent with the purposes of the Sanctuary, provided that the rights are authorized by the tribe by regulation, license, or permit.

(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section do not apply to valid law enforcement activities, or any activity necessary to respond to an emergency threatening life or the environment.

(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section do not apply to any activity:

(1) Specifically authorized by, and conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of, a permit issued pursuant to ยง 922.195 or a special use permit issued pursuant to subpart D of this part.

(2) [Reserved]
