
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 922 - NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart T - Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary
####### Appendix B to Subpart T of Part 922 - Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary Terms of Designation
######## et seq.,

Terms of Designation for Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary Under the authority of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, as amended (the "Act" or "NMSA"), 16 U.S.C. 1431962 square miles of Lake Michigan off the coast of Wisconsin's coastal counties of Ozaukee, Sheboygan, Manitowoc, and Kewaunee are hereby designated as a National Marine Sanctuary for the purpose of providing long-term protection and management of the historical resources and recreational, research, educational, and aesthetic qualities of the area.

The NMSA authorizes the issuance of such regulations as are necessary and reasonable to implement the designation, including managing and protecting the historical resources and recreational, research, and educational qualities of Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary (the "Sanctuary"). Section 1 of Article IV of this Designation Document lists those activities that may have to be regulated on the effective date of designation, or at some later date, in order to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Listing an activity does not necessarily mean that it will be regulated; however, if an activity is not listed it may not be regulated, except on an emergency basis, unless Section 1 of Article IV is amended by the same procedures by which the original Sanctuary designation was made.

Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary consists of an area of approximately 726 square nautical miles (962 square miles) of Lake Michigan waters within the State of Wisconsin and the submerged lands thereunder, over, around, and under the underwater cultural resources in Lake Michigan. The eastern boundary of the sanctuary begins approximately 9.3 miles east of the Wisconsin shoreline in Lake Michigan north of the border between Manitowoc and Kewaunee County. From this point the boundary continues in Lake Michigan roughly to the SSW until it intersects a point in Lake Michigan approximately 16.3 miles east of a point along the shoreline that is approximately equidistant between the borders of Mequon, WI and Port Washington, WI. The southern boundary continues west until it intersects the shoreline at the Low Water Datum at this point between Mequon, WI and Port Washington, WI. The western boundary continues north following the shoreline at the Low Water Datum for approximately 82 miles cutting across the mouths of rivers, creeks, and streams and excluding federally authorized shipping channels; specifically those of Sauk Creek at Port Washington, Sheboygan River at Sheboygan, Manitowoc Harbor as Manitowoc, and East Twin River at Two Rivers. The western boundary ends just north of the border between Manitowoc and Kewaunee County along the shoreline near Carlton, WI. The northern boundary continues from the shoreline at the Low Water Datum at this point east across Lake Michigan just north of the border between these same two counties back to its point of origin approximately 9.3 miles offshore.

The area includes a nationally significant collection of maritime heritage resources, including 36 known shipwrecks, about 59 suspected shipwrecks, and other underwater cultural sites. The historic shipwrecks are representative of the vessels that sailed and steamed on Lake Michigan during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, carrying grain and raw materials east and carrying coal, manufactured goods, and people west. During this period entrepreneurs and shipbuilders on the Great Lakes launched tens of thousands of ships of many different designs. Sailing schooners, grand palace steamers, revolutionary propeller-driven passenger ships, and industrial bulk carriers transported America's business and industry. In the process they brought hundreds of thousands of people to the Midwest and made possible the dramatic growth of the region's farms, cities, and industries. The Midwest, and indeed the American nation, could not have developed with such speed and with such vast economic and social consequences without the Great Lakes. Twenty-one of the 36 shipwreck sites in the sanctuary are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Many of the shipwrecks retain an unusual degree of architectural integrity, with several vessels nearly intact. Well preserved by Lake Michigan's cold, fresh water, the shipwrecks and related maritime heritage sites in Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary possess exceptional historical, archaeological and recreational value. Additional underwater cultural resources, such as submerged aircraft, docks, piers, and isolated artifacts also exist, as do the potential for prehistoric sites and artifacts.

Section 1. Activities Subject to Regulation. The following activities are subject to regulation, including prohibition, to the extent necessary and reasonable to ensure the protection and management of the historical resources and recreational, research and educational qualities of the area:

a. Injuring sanctuary resources.

b. Grappling into or anchoring on a shipwreck sites.

c. Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation issued under the Act.

Section 2. Emergencies. Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality; or minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss, or injury, any activity, including those not listed in Section 1, is subject to immediate temporary regulation. An emergency regulation shall not take effect without the approval of the Governor of Wisconsin or her/his designee or designated agency.

Fishing Regulations, Licenses, and Permits. Fishing in the Sanctuary shall not be regulated as part of the Sanctuary management regime authorized by the Act. However, fishing in the Sanctuary may be regulated by other Federal, State, Tribal and local authorities of competent jurisdiction, and designation of the Sanctuary shall have no effect on any regulation, permit, or license issued thereunder.

The terms of designation may be modified only by the same procedures by which the original designation is made, including public meetings, consultation according to the NMSA.
