
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 923 - COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart G - Review/Approval Procedures
####### ยง 923.60 Review/approval procedures.

(a) All state management program submissions must contain an environmental assessment at the time of submission of the management program to OCRM for threshold review. In accordance with regulations implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, OCRM will assist the State by outlining the types of information required. (See 40 CFR ยง 1506.5 (a) and (b).)

(b) Upon submission by a State of its draft management program, OCRM will determine if it adequately meets the requirements of the Act and this part. Assuming positive findings are made and major revisions to the State's draft management program are not required, OCRM will prepare draft and final environmental impact statements, in accordance with National Environmental Policy Act requirements. Because the review process involves preparation and dissemination of draft and final environmental impact statements and lengthy Federal agency review; states should anticipate that it will take at least 7 months between the time a state first submits a draft management program to OCRM for threshold review and the point at which the Assistant Administrator makes a final decision on whether to approve the management program. Certain factors will contribute to lengthening or shortening this time table; these factors are discussed in OCRM guidance on the review/approval process. The OCRM guidance also recommends a format for the program document submitted to the Assistant Administrator for review and approval.
