
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 923 - COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart I - Applications for Program Development or Implementation Grants
####### ยง 923.93 Eligible implementation costs.

(a) Costs claimed must be beneficial and necessary to the objectives of the grant project. As used herein the terms cost and grant project pertain to both the Federal and the matching share. Allowability of costs will be determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-87: Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments.

(b) Federal funds awarded pursuant to section 306 of the Act may not be used for land acquisition purposes and may not be used for construction purposes. These costs may be eligible, however, pursuant to section 306A of the Act.

(c) The primary purpose for which implementation funds, pursuant to section 306 of the Act, are to be used is to assure effective implementation and administration of the management program, including especially administrative actions to implement enforceable program policies, authorities and other management techniques. Implementation activities should focus on achieving the policies of the Act.

(d) Section 306 funding in support of any of these purposes may be used to fund, among other things:

(1) Personnel costs,

(2) Supplies and overhead,

(3) Equipment, and

(4) Feasibility studies and preliminary engineering reports.

(e) States are encouraged to coordinate administrative funding requests with funding possibilities pursuant to sections 306A, 308, 309, 310 and 315 of the Act, as well as with funding possibilities pursuant to section 6217 of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990. When in doubt as to the appropriate section of the Act under which to request funding, States should consult with OCRM. States should consult with OCRM on technical aspects of consolidating requests into a single application.
