
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 923 - COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart I - Applications for Program Development or Implementation Grants
####### ยง 923.94 Application for program development or implementation grants.

(a) OMB Standard Form 424 (4-92) and the NOAA Application Kit for Federal Assistance constitute the formal application. An original and two (2) copies must be submitted 45 days prior to the desired grant beginning date. The application must be accompanied by evidence of compliance with E.O. 12372 requirements including the resolution of any problems raised by the proposed project. The administrative requirements for grants and subawards, under this program, to state, local and Indian tribal governments are set out in 15 CFR part 24. The administrative requirements for other entities are prescribed under OMB Circular A-110: Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-Profit Organizations.

(b) Costs claimed as charges to the grant project must be beneficial and necessary to the objectives of the grant project. As used herein, the terms "cost" and "grant project" pertain to both the Federal amount awarded and the non-federal matching share. Allowability of costs will be determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-87: Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments. Eligible implementation costs also shall be determined in accordance with ยง 923.93 of these regulations. Allowability of costs for non-profit organizations will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-122: Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations. Allowability of costs for institutions of higher education will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-21: Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.

(c) In the grant application, the applicant must describe clearly and briefly the activities that will be undertaken with grant funds in support of implementation and administration of the management program. This description must include:

(1) An identification of those elements of the approved management program that are to be supported in whole or in part by the Federal and the matching share,

(2) A clear statement of the major tasks required to implement each element,

(3) For each task the application must:

(i) Specify how it will be accomplished and by whom;

(ii) Identify any sub-awardees (other State agencies, local governments, individuals, etc.) that will be allocated responsibility for carrying out all or portions of the task, and indicate the estimated cost of the sub-awards for each allocation; and

(iii) Indicate the estimated total cost.

(4) The sum of all task costs in paragraph (c)(3) of this section should equal the total estimated grant project cost.

(d) For program development grants, when evaluating whether a State is making satisfactory progress toward completion of an approvable management program which is necessary to establish eligibility for subsequent grants, the Assistant Administrator will consider:

(1) The progress made toward meeting management program goals and objectives;

(2) The progress demonstrated in completing the past year's work program;

(3) The cumulative progress toward meeting the requirements for preliminary or final approval of a coastal management program;

(4) The applicability of the proposed work program to fulfillment of the requirements for final approval; and

(5) The effectiveness of mechanisms for insuring public participation and consultation with affected Federal, State, regional and local agencies in program development.
