
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 923 - COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart K - Coastal Zone Enhancement Grants Program
####### § 923.124 Allocation of section 309 funds.
######## Weighted formula funding.

(d)(1)(i) A weighted formula funding target will be determined for each State that meets the eligibility requirements at § 923.121(b). The weighted formula funding target will be the State base allocation determined by the application of the formula at § 923.110(c), multiplied by a weighting factor derived from the Assistant Administrator's evaluation and ranking of the quality of the State's Strategy (as described in (d)(1) of this section), as supported by the State's Assessment.

(ii) The application of the weighting factor may result in a weighted formula funding target that is higher or lower than the State's base allocation. Each State's weighted formula funding target will be adjusted to reflect the funds available.

(iii) The Assistant Administrator may establish minimum and maximum weighted formula funding targets under § 923.124(d).

(2) The Assistant Administrator will determine each State's weighting factor based on an evaluation and ranking of the State's Strategy that takes into consideration the following:

(i) The scope and value of the proposed program change(s) contained in the Strategy in terms of improved coastal resource management;

(ii) The technical merits of the Strategy in terms of project design and cost effectiveness;

(iii) The likelihood of success that the State will have in attaining the proposed program change(s), including an evaluation of the State's past performance and support for the Strategy; and,

(iv) The fiscal and technical needs of the State.

(3) Each State will be notified individually of its weighting factor, the reasons for assigning this weighting factor, and any changes thereto. In consultation with the Assistant Administrator, a State may choose to make substantive changes to its approved Assessment and Strategy to improve its weighting factor, in accordance with the procedures at § 923.128.
