
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 923 - COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart K - Coastal Zone Enhancement Grants Program
####### ยง 923.128 Revisions to assessments and strategies.

(a) A State, in consultation with the Assistant Administrator, may propose to revise its approved Strategy. Revision(s) to an approved Strategy must be submitted to and approved by the Assistant Administrator prior to the initiation of the contemplated change.

(b) The Assistant Administrator will review such proposed revision(s) and determine if public review and comment is required. This determination will be based on the extent to which the proposed revision(s) changes the original scope of the State's Strategy.

(c) If the Assistant Administrator determines that public review and comment is necessary, he/she will notify the State of his/her determination. The State will be required to provide public review and comment in accordance with NOAA guidance.

(d) A State that wants to revise substantively the program changes identified in its approved Strategy or to address new enhancement objectives not identified as a priority in the original Assessment, also must revise the Assessment through a public process as described in NOAA's guidance.

(e) The Assistant Administrator, in consultation with the State, may reduce a state's weighting factor assigned to its Strategy as a result of failure to meet the milestones in its Strategy.

(f) The Assistant Administrator will notify the State of his/her decision to approve or deny the proposed revision(s) to the Strategy, and any change in the weighting factor assigned to its Strategy.
