
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 923 - COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart L - Review of Performance
####### ยง 923.135 Enforcement.
######## Requirements.

(2)(i) The Assistant Administrator will identify the need for interim sanctions through the continuing review process. The Assistant Administrator will use the criteria at ยง 923.135(a)(3) in determining when to invoke interim sanctions.

(ii) The Assistant Administrator will issue the State a preliminary finding of non-adherence with the approved CZM program, or a portion thereof, and/or with a term or terms of a grant or cooperative agreement. This preliminary finding of non-adherence may be contained in the draft evaluation findings, or in a preliminary notification letter to the State CZM program manager. If the preliminary finding is contained in a preliminary notification letter, the Assistant Administrator will comply with the applicable public participation requirements of section 312(b) and NOAA's regulations at ยง 923.134. The draft evaluation findings or preliminary notification letter containing a preliminary finding of non-adherence will explain that if the finding of non-adherence is issued, the State is subject to suspension of financial assistance and, if the State fails to take the actions specified pursuant to section 312(c) and this part, to withdrawal of program approval and financial assistance.

(iii) The State will be given 30 days from receipt of the draft evaluation findings or preliminary notification letter to comment on and rebut the preliminary finding of non-adherence. During this 30-day period, the State may request up to 15 additional days to respond, for a maximum of 45 days from receipt of the draft evaluation findings or preliminary notification letter.

(iv) After considering the State's comments, the Assistant Administrator will decide whether or not to issue a final finding of non-adherence. If the Assistant Administrator decides to issue a final finding of non-adherence, he/she will do so in the final evaluation findings issued pursuant to section 312(b) or in a final notification letter as provided by paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section. The Assistant Administrator may invoke interim sanctions provided by section 312(c) immediately or at any time after issuing the final evaluation findings or final notification letter containing the finding of non-adherence, but not later than the next regularly scheduled evaluation.

(v) If the Assistant Administrator decides to invoke interim sanctions, he/she will do so by sending the final evaluation findings or final notification letter to the Governor of the State and the State CZM program manager. The final evaluation findings or final notification letter will contain the information required in section 312(c)(2) (A) and (B). This information will include the amount of financial assistance to be suspended and redirected, the actions the State should take in order to have the suspension withdrawn, how the suspended funds shall be expended to take the required actions, and a schedule for taking the required actions. The final evaluation findings or final notification letter will also contain the length of the suspension, which may not last for less than 6 months or more than 36 months. The Assistant Administrator will establish the length of the suspension based on the amount of time that is reasonably necessary for the State to take the required actions. If the State can take the required actions faster than expected, the suspension can be withdrawn early (but not in less than six months).

(vi) The State must respond to the final evaluation findings or final notification letter by developing a proposed work program to accomplish the required actions on the schedule set forth in the final evaluation findings or final notification letter. The State may propose an alternative approach to accomplishing the required actions and/or an alternative schedule. The Assistant Administrator's approval of the State's work program will signify his/her agreement with the approach and schedule for accomplishing the actions necessary to withdraw the suspension.

(vii) The Assistant Administrator will monitor State performance under the work program. This may involve additional direction to the State through the grant administration process and/or a visit to the State by appropriate NOAA program staff, evaluation staff and/or other experts to work with the State on a specific problem or issue. The Assistant Administrator will consider proposals to revise the work program on a case-by-case basis, providing that the State will still be able to accomplish the necessary actions within a maximum of 36 months.

(viii) The State must document that it has taken the required actions on the schedule established under this section. The State must provide its documentation in writing to the Assistant Administrator. The Assistant Administrator may conduct a follow-up evaluation or otherwise revisit the State at his/her discretion.

(ix) If the Assistant Administrator determines that the required actions have been taken, the Assistant Administrator will promptly notify the Governor and the State program manager, in writing, that NOAA has withdrawn the suspension of financial assistance. If, however, the State does not take the required actions, then the Assistant Administrator will invoke the final sanction provisions of section 312(d) on program termination and withdrawal of all financial assistance.
