
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 923 - COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### Subpart L - Review of Performance
####### § 923.135 Enforcement.
######## Requirements.

(2)(i) If the Assistant Administrator determines that the State has not taken the actions required in § 923.135(a)(2), the Assistant Administrator will provide the Governor and the State CZM program manager with written notice of this finding and NOAA's obligation to withdraw program approval and financial assistance under this title. The State will be given 30 days from receipt of this notice to respond with evidence that it has taken the actions specified pursuant to § 923.135(a)(2). During this 30-day period, the State may request up to 30 additional days to respond, for a maximum of 60 days from receipt of notice.

(ii) If the State does not respond satisfactorily within the time allowed, the agency will notify the State of intent to take the proposed action. This notice will be published in theand will inform the State of its right to a public hearing.

(iii) If the State does not request a public hearing or submit satisfactory evidence that it has taken the actions specified pursuant to § 923.135(a)(2) within 30 days of publication of this notice, and the Assistant Administrator determines that the State has failed to take the actions specified pursuant to § 923.135(a)(2), the Assistant Administrator will withdraw program approval and financial assistance and will notify the State in writing of the decision and the reasons for it. The notification will set forth actions that must be taken by the State which would cause the Assistant Administrator to cancel the withdrawal.

(iv) If the State requests a public hearing within 30 days of publication of the notice of intent to withdraw program approval and financial assistance, the Assistant Administrator will publish 30 days advance notice of the hearing in theand the newspaper(s) of largest circulation in the State's coastal zone. The hearing will be held in a location convenient to the citizens of the State's coastal zone and a record of the hearing will be maintained. Within 30 days of the completion of the hearing, the agency will make the determination as set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.

(3) If program approval and financial assistance are withdrawn pursuant to this section, a notice will be placed in theand Federal consistency under section 307 of the Act will cease to apply to the State's CZM program.
