
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 18 - ATTORNEY'S FEES AND OTHER EXPENSES
#### Procedures for Considering Applications
##### ยง 18.22 Agency review.

Either the applicant or agency counsel may file a petition for review of the initial decision on the fee application, or the Department may decide to review the decision on its own initiative. The petition must be filed with the General Counsel, Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Administration, Rm. 5882, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20230, not later than 30 calendar days after the initial decision is issued. For purposes of this section, a document will be considered filed with the General Counsel as of the date of the postmark (or for government penalty mail, as shown by a certificate of mailing), if mailed, or if not mailed, as of the date actually delivered to the Office of General Counsel. A petition for review must be accompanied by a full written statement in support thereof, including a precise statement of why the petitioner believes the initial decision should be reversed or modified, and proof of service upon all parties. A response to the petition may be filed by another party to the proceeding and must be filed with the General Counsel at the above address not more than 30 calendar days after the date of service of the petition for review. The General Counsel may request any further submissions deemed helpful in resolving the petition for review. If neither the applicant nor agency counsel seeks review and the Department does not take review on its own initiative, the initial decision on the application shall become a final decision of the Department 30 calendar days after it is issued. Whether to review a decision is a matter within the discretion of the General Counsel. If review is taken, the General Counsel will issue the Department's final decision on the application or remand the application to the adjudicative officer for further proceedings. The standard of review exercised by the General Counsel shall be that which was required for the highest level of Departmental review which could have been exercised on the underlying covered proceeding.
