
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 930 - FEDERAL CONSISTENCY WITH APPROVED COASTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - Consistency for Federal Agency Activities
####### ยง 930.33 Identifying Federal agency activities affecting any coastal use or resource.
######## Environmentally beneficial activities.

(4)The State agency and Federal agencies may agree to exclude environmentally beneficial Federal agency activities (either on a case-by-case basis or for a category of activities) from further State agency consistency review. Environmentally beneficial activity means an activity that protects, preserves, or restores the natural resources of the coastal zone. The State agency shall provide for public participation under section 306(d)(14) of the Act for the State agency's consideration of whether to exclude environmentally beneficial activities.

(5) General consistency determinations, phased consistency determinations, and national or regional consistency determinations under ยง 930.36 are also available to facilitate federal-State coordination.

(b) Federal agencies shall consider all development projects within the coastal zone to be activities affecting any coastal use or resource. All other types of activities within the coastal zone are subject to Federal agency review to determine whether they affect any coastal use or resource.

(c) Federal agency activities and development projects outside of the coastal zone, are subject to Federal agency review to determine whether they affect any coastal use or resource.

(d) Federal agencies shall broadly construe the effects test to provide State agencies with a consistency determination under ยง 930.34 and not a negative determination under ยง 930.35 or other determinations of no effects. Early coordination and cooperation between a Federal agency and the State agency can enable the parties to focus their efforts on particular Federal agency activities of concern to the State agency.
