
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 930 - FEDERAL CONSISTENCY WITH APPROVED COASTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart H - Appeal to the Secretary for Review Related to the Objectives of the Act and National Security Interests
####### ยง 930.130 Closure of the decision record and issuance of decision.

(a)(1) With the exception of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Secretary shall close the decision record not later than 160 days after the date that the Secretary's Notice of Appeal is published in theunder ยง 930.128(a). After closing the decision record, the Secretary shall immediately publish a notice in thestating that the decision record has been closed. The notice shall also state that the Secretary shall not consider additional information, briefs or comments.

(2) The Secretary may stay the closing of the decision record during the 160-day period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section:

(i) For a specific period mutually agreed to in writing by the appellant and the State agency; or

(ii) As the Secretary determines necessary to receive, on an expedited basis:

(A) Any supplemental information specifically requested by the Secretary to complete a consistency review under the Act; or

(B) Any clarifying information submitted by a party to the proceeding related to information in the consolidated record compiled by the lead Federal permitting agency.

(3) The Secretary may only stay the 160-day period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for a period not to exceed 60 days.

(b) Not later than 60 days after the date of publication of anotice stating when the decision record for an appeal has been closed, the Secretary shall issue a decision or publish a notice in theexplaining why a decision cannot be issued at that time. The Secretary shall issue a decision not later than 15 days after the date of publication of anotice explaining why a decision cannot be issued within the 60-day period.

(c) The decision of the Secretary shall constitute final agency action for the purposes of the Administrative Procedure Act.

(d) In reviewing an appeal, the Secretary shall find that a proposed federal license or permit activity, or a federal assistance activity, is consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act, or is necessary in the interest of national security, when the information in the decision record supports this conclusion.

(e)(1) If the Secretary finds that the proposed activity is consistent with the objectives or purposes of the Act, or is necessary in the interest of national security, the Federal agency may approve the activity.

(2) If the Secretary does not make either of these findings, the Federal agency shall not approve the activity.
