
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 930 - FEDERAL CONSISTENCY WITH APPROVED COASTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart I - Consistency of Federal Activities Having Interstate Coastal Effects
####### ยง 930.152 Application.

(a) This subpart applies to federal actions having interstate coastal effects, and supplements the relevant requirements contained in 15 CFR part 930, subparts C (Consistency for Federal Agency Activities), D (Consistency for Activities Requiring a Federal License or Permit), E (Consistency for OCS Exploration, Development and Production Activities) and F (Consistency for Federal Assistance to State and Local Governments). Except as otherwise provided by this subpart, the requirements of other relevant subparts of part 930 apply to activities having interstate coastal effects.

(b) Federal consistency is a requirement on federal actions affecting any coastal use or resource of a State with a federally-approved management program, regardless of the activities' locations (including States without a federally approved management program). The federal consistency requirement does not alter a coastal State's jurisdiction. The federal consistency requirement does not give States the authority to review the application of laws, regulations, or policies of any other State. Rather, the Act allows a management program to review federal actions and may preclude federal action as a result of a State objection, even if the objecting State is not the State in which the activity will occur. Such objections to interstate activities under subparts D, E and F may be overridden by the Secretary pursuant to subpart H of this part.
