
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter B - Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
##### PART 930 - FEDERAL CONSISTENCY WITH APPROVED COASTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart I - Consistency of Federal Activities Having Interstate Coastal Effects
####### ยง 930.154 Listing activities subject to routine interstate consistency review.
######## State failure to list interstate activities.

(e)A coastal State that fails to list federal activities subject to interstate review, or to describe the geographic location for these activities, under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, may not exercise its right to review activities occurring in other States, until the State meets the listing requirements. The listing of activities subject to interstate consistency review, and the description of the geographic location for those listed activities, should ensure that coastal States have the opportunity to review relevant activities occurring in other States. States may amend their lists and geographic location descriptions pursuant to the requirements of this subpart and subpart H of 15 CFR part 923. States which have complied with paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section may also use the procedure at ยง 930.54 to review unlisted activities. States will have a transition period of 18 months from the date this rule takes effect. In that time a State may review an interstate activity pursuant to ยง 930.54 of this part. After the transition period States must comply with this subpart in order to review interstate activities.
