
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Regulations of the National Weather Service
##### PART 946 - MODERNIZATION OF THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
###### Appendix A to Part 946 - National Weather Service Modernization Criteria
####### Criteria:

1. Availability of Trained Operations and Maintenance Personnel at a NEXRAD Weather Service Forecast Office or NEXRAD Weather Service Office: Adequate operations and maintenance staffs are available to commission a WSR-88D, specifically criterion b. set forth in section I.A.2. of this Appendix which includes meeting the Stage 1 staffing levels set forth in chapter 3 of the Human Resources Plan.

2. Availability of Trained Operations and Maintenance Personnel at any field office receiving an ASOS: Adequate operations and maintenance staff are available to meet the requirements for commissioning an ASOS, specifically criteria h and i set forth in section I.A.1 of this Appendix.

1. Notification: Advanced notification and the expected date of the proposed certification have been provided in the National Implementation Plan.

2. Local Weather Characteristics and Weather Related Concerns: A description of local weather characteristics and weather related concerns which affect the weather services provided to the affected service area is provided.

3. Comparison of Services: A comparison of services before and after the proposed action demonstrates that all services currently provided to the affected service area will continue to be provided with no degradation of services.

4. Recent or Excepted Modernization of NWS Operations in the Affected Service Area: A description of recent or expected modernization of NWS operations in the affected service area is provided.

5. NEXRAD Network Coverage: NEXRAD network coverage or gaps in coverage at 10,000 feet over the affected service area are identified.

6. Air Safety Appraisal (applies only to relocation and closure of field offices at an airport): Verification that there will be no degradation of service that affects aircraft safety has been made by conducting an air safety appraisal in consultation with the Federal Aviation Administration.

7. Evaluation of Services to In-state Users (applies only to relocation and closure of the only field office in a state): Verification that there will be no degradation of weather services provided to the state has been made by evaluating the effect on weather services provided to in-State users.

8. Liaison Officer: Arrangements have been made to retain a Liaison Officer in the affected service area for at least two years to provide timely information regarding the activities of the NWS which may affect service to the community, including modernization and restructuring; and to work with area weather service users, including persons associated with general aviation, civil defense, emergency preparedness, and the news media, with respect to the provision of timely weather warnings and forecasts.

9. Meteorologist-In-Charge's (MIC) Recommendation to Certify: The MIC of the future WFO that will have responsibility for the affected service area has recommended certification in accordance with 15 CFR 946.7(a).

10. Regional Director's Certification: The cognizant Regional Director has approved the MIC's recommended certification of no degradation of service to the affected service area in accordance with 15 CFR 946.8.

1. WSR-88D Commissioning: All necessary WSR-88D radars have been successfully commissioned in accordance with the criteria set forth in section I.A.2. of this Appendix.

2. User Confirmation of Services: All valid user complaints related to actual system performance have been satisfactorily resolved in accordance with section 3.3 of the Internal and External Communication and Coordination Plan for the Modernization and Associated Restructuring of the National Weather Service.

3. Decommissioning of Existing Radar: The existing radar, if any, has been successfully decommissioned in accordance with the criteria set forth in section I.B. of this Appendix.

1. Approval of Proposed Relocation Checklist: The cognizant regional director has approved a proposed relocation checklist setting forth the necessary elements in the relocation process to assure that all affected users will be given advanced notification of the relocation, that delivery of NWS services and products will not be interrupted during the office relocation, and that the office to be relocated will resume full operation at the new facility expeditiously so as to minimize the service backup period.
