
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter C - Regulations of the National Weather Service
##### PART 946 - MODERNIZATION OF THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
###### Appendix A to Part 946 - National Weather Service Modernization Criteria
####### Specific Elements:

a. Notification of and Technical Coordination with Users: The proposed relocation checklist provides for the notification of and technical coordination with all affected users.

b. Identification and Preparation of Backup Sites: The proposed relocation checklist identifies the necessary backup sites and the steps necessary to prepare to use backup sites to ensure service coverage during the move and checkout period.

c. Start of Service Backup: The proposed relocation checklist provides for invocation of service backup by designated sites prior to office relocation.

d. Systems, Furniture and Communications: The proposed relocation checklist identifies the steps necessary to move all systems and furniture to the new facility and to install communications at the new facility.

e. Installation and Checkout: The proposed relocation checklist identifies all steps to install and checkout systems and furniture and to connect to communications at the new facility.

f. Validation of Systems Operability and Service Delivery: The proposed relocation checklist provides for validation of system operability and service delivery from the new facility.

2. Publishing of the Proposed Relocation Checklist and Evidence form Completed Moves: The proposed relocation checklist and the evidence from other similar office moves that have been completed, have been published in thefor public comment. The evidence from the other office moves indicates that they have been successfully completed.

3. Resolution of Public Comments Received: All responsive public comments received from publication, in theof the checklists and of the evidence from completed moves are satisfactorily answered.

1. Compliance with flight aviation rules (applies on airports only): Consultation with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has verified that the weather services provided after the commissioning of the relevant ASOS unit(s) will be in full compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Regulations promulgated by the FAA.

2. ASOS Commissioning: The relevant ASOS unit(s) have been successfully commissioned in accordance with the criteria set forth in section I.A.1 of Appendix A to the Weather Service Modernization Regulations, 15 CFR part 946.

3. User Confirmation of Services: Any valid user complaints related to actual system performance received since commissioning of the ASOS have been satisfactorily resolved and the issues addressed in the MIC's recommendation for certification.

4. Aviation Observation Requirement: At sites subject to automation certification, all surface observations and reports required for aviation services can be generated by an ASOS augmented as necessary by non-NWS personnel.

a. The ASOS observation will be augmented/backed-up to the level specified in Appendix B as described in the Summary Chart of the FAA's Weather Observation Service Standards.

b. The transition checklist has been signed by the appropriate Region Systems Operations Division Chief (applies to service level A, B and C airports only).

c. Thunderstorm occurrence is reported in the ASOS observation through the use of a lightning sensor (applies to service level D airports only, excluding Homer, Alaska).

d. Freezing rain occurrence is reported in the ASOS observation through the use of a freezing rain sensor. Among service level D airports, this criterion is not applicable to Ely, Nevada and Lander, Wyoming.

5. Pilot Education and Outreach Completed: The Air Safety Foundation has conducted a pilot education and outreach effort to educate pilots on the use of automated observations and measure their understanding and acceptance of automated observing systems, and the MTC has had an opportunity to review the results of this effort (applies to service level D airports only).

6. General Surface Observation Requirement: The total observations available are adequate to support the required inventory of services to users in the affected area. All necessary hydrometeorological data and information are available through ASOS as augmented in accordance with this section, through those elements reported as supplementary data by the relevant Weather Forecast Office(s), or through other complementary sources. The adequacy of the total surface observation is addressed in the MTC's recommendation for certification.

1. Consolidation Certification: If the field office proposed for closure has or will be consolidated, as defined in ยง 946.2 of the basic modernization regulations, this action has been completed as evidenced by the approved certification or can be completed as evidenced by all of the documentation that all of the requirements of sections II.A. and II.B of this Annex have been completed.

2. Automation Certification: If the field office proposed for closure has or will be automated, as defined in ยง 946.2 of the basic modernization regulations, this action has been completed as evidenced by the approved certification or can be completed as evidenced by documentation that all of the requirements of sections II.A. and II.C. of this Annex has been completed.

3. Remaining Services and/or Observations: All remaining service and/or observational responsibilities, if applicable to the field office proposed for closure, have been transmitted as addressed in the MIC's recommendation for certification.

4. User Confirmation of Services: Any valid user complaints received related to provision of weather services have been satisfactorily resolved and the issues addressed in the MIC's recommendation for certification.

5. Warning and Forecast Verification: Warning and forecast verification statistics, produced in accordance with the Closure Certification Verification Plan, have been utilized in support of the MIC's recommendation for certification.
