
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 950 - ENVIRONMENTAL DATA AND INFORMATION
###### ยง 950.8 Satellite Data Services Division (SDSD).
####### i.e.

The Satellite Data Services Division of the EDIS National Climatic Center provides environmental and earth resources satellite data to other users once the original collection purposes (, weather forecasting) have been satisfied. The division also provides photographs collected during NASA's SKYLAB missions.

(a) Satellite data available from SDSD include:

(1) Data from the TIROS (Television InfraRed Observational Satellite) series of experimental spacecraft; much of the imagery gathered by spacecraft of the NASA experimental NIMBUS series; full-earth disc photographs from NASA's Applications Technology Satellites (ATS) I and III geostationary research spacecraft; tens of thousands of images from the original ESSA and current NOAA series of Improved TIROS Operational Satellites; and both full-disc and sectorized images from the Synchronous Meteorological Satellites (SMS) 1 and 2, the current operational geostationary spacecraft. In addition to visible light imagery, infrared data are available from the NIMBUS, NOAA, and SMS satellites. Each day, SDSD receives about 239 negatives from the polar-orbiting NOAA spacecraft, more than 235 SMS-1 and 2 negatives, and several special negatives and movie film loops.

(2) Photographs (both color and black-and-white) taken during the three SKYLAB missions (May through June, 1973, July through September, 1973, and November 1973 through February 1974).

(b) Queries should be addressed to: Satellite Data Services Division, World Weather Building, Room 606, Washington, DC 20233, tel. 301-763-8111.
