
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 970 - DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR EXPLORATION LICENSES
###### Subpart D - Certification of Applications
####### § 970.400 General.

(a) Certification is an intermediate step between receipt of an application for issuance or transfer of a license and its actual issuance or transfer. It is a determination which focuses on the eligibility of the applicant.

(b) Before the Administrator may certify an application for issuance or transfer of a license, he must determine that issuance of the license would not violate any of the restrictions in § 970.103(b). He also must make written determinations with respect to the requirements set forth in §§ 970.401 through 970.406. This will be done after consultation with other departments and agencies pursuant to § 970.211.

(c) To the maximum extent possible, the Administrator will endeavor to complete certification of an application within 100 days after submission of an application which is in full compliance with subpart B of this part. If final certification or denial of certification has not occurred within 100 days after such submission of the application, the Administrator will inform the applicant in writing of the pending unresolved issues, the agency's efforts to resolve them, and an estimate of the time required to do so.
