
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 970 - DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR EXPLORATION LICENSES
###### Subpart D - Certification of Applications
####### § 970.407 Denial of certification.

(a) The Administrator may deny certification of an application if he finds that the requirements of this subpart have not been met. If, in the course of reviewing an application for certification, the Administrator becomes aware of the fact that one or more of the requirements for issuance or transfer under §§ 970.503 through 970.507 will not be met, he may also deny certification of the application.

(b) When the Administrator proposes to deny certification he will send to the applicant, and publish in thewritten notice of intention to deny certification. Such notice will include:

(1) The basis upon which the Administrator proposes to deny certification; and

(2) If the basis for the proposed denial is a deficiency which the Administrator believes the applicant can correct:

(i) The action believed necessary to correct the deficiency; and

(ii) The time within which any correctable deficiency must be corrected (the period of time may not exceed 180 days except as specified by the Administrator for good cause).

(c) The Administrator will deny certification:

(1) On the 30th day after the date the notice is sent to the applicant, under paragraph (b) of this section, unless before such 30th day the applicant files with the Administrator a written request for an administrative review of the proposed denial; or

(2) On the last day of the period established under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section in which the applicant must correct a deficiency, if such deficiency has not been corrected before such day and an administrative review requested pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not pending or in progress.

(d) If a timely request for administrative review of the proposed denial is made by the applicant under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator will promptly begin a formal hearing in accordance with Subpart I of 15 CFR part 971. If the proposed denial is the result of a correctable deficiency, the administrative review will proceed concurrently with any attempts to correct the deficiency, unless the parties agree otherwise or the administrative law judge orders differently.

(e) If the Administrator denies certification, he will send to the applicant written notice of the denial, including the reasons therefor.

(f) Any final determination by the Administrator granting or denying certification is subject to judicial review as provided in Chapter 7 of Title 5, United States Code.
