
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 970 - DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR EXPLORATION LICENSES
###### Subpart E - Issuance/Transfer/Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
####### Issuance/Transfer; Modification/Revision; Suspension/Revocation
######## ยง 970.508 Denial of issuance or transfer.

(a) The Administrator may deny issuance or transfer of a license if he finds that the applicant or the proposed exploration activities do not meet the requirements of this part for the issuance or transfer of a license.

(b) When the Administrator proposes to deny issuance or transfer, he will send to the applicant, and publish in thewritten notice of such intention to deny issuance or transfer. Such notice will include:

(1) The basis upon which the Administrator proposes to deny issuance or transfer; and

(2) If the basis for the proposed denial is a deficiency which the Administrator believes the applicant can correct:

(i) The action believed necessary to correct the deficiency; and

(ii) The time within which any correctable deficiency must be corrected (the period of time may not exceed 180 days except as specified by the Administrator for good cause).

(c) The Administrator will deny issuance or transfer:

(1) On the 30th day after the date the notice is sent to the applicant under paragraph (b) of this section, unless before such 30th day the applicant files with the Administrator a written request for an administrative review of the proposed denial; or

(2) On the last day of the period established under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section in which the applicant must correct a deficiency, if such deficiency has not been corrected before such day and an administrative review requested pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not pending or in progress.

(d) If a timely request for administrative review of the proposed denial is made by the applicant under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator will promptly begin a formal hearing in accordance with subpart I of 15 CFR part 971. If the proposed denial is the result of a correctable deficiency, the administrative review will proceed concurrently with any attempt to correct the deficiency, unless the parties agree otherwise or the administrative law judge orders differently.

(e) If the Administrator denies issuance or transfer, he will send to the applicant written notice of the denial, including the reasons therefor.

(f) Any final determination by the Administrator granting or denying issuance of a license is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
