
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 970 - DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR EXPLORATION LICENSES
###### Subpart E - Issuance/Transfer/Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
####### Issuance/Transfer; Modification/Revision; Suspension/Revocation
######## ยง 970.510 Objections to terms, conditions and restrictions.

(a) The licensee may file a notice of objection to any term, condition or restriction in the license. The licensee may object on the grounds that any term, condition or restriction is inconsistent with the Act or this part, or on any other grounds which may be raised under applicable provisions of law. If the licensee does not file notice of an objection within the 60-day period immediately following the licensee's receipt of the notice of issuance or transfer under ยง 970.509, he will be deemed conclusively to have accepted the terms, conditions and restrictions in the license.

(b) Any notice of objection filed under paragraph (a) of this section must be in writing, must contain the precise legal basis for the objection, and must provide information relevant to any underlying factual issues deemed by the licensee as necessary to the Administrator's decision upon the objection.

(c) Within 90 days after receipt of the notice of objection, the Administrator will act on the objection and publish in theas well as provide to the licensee, written notice of his decision.

(d) If, after the Administrator takes final action on an objection, the licensee demonstrates that a dispute remains on a material issue of fact, the Administrator will provide for a formal hearing which will proceed in accordance with subpart I of 15 CFR part 971.

(e) Any final determination by the Administrator on an objection to terms, conditions or restrictions in a license after the formal hearing provided in paragraph (d) of this section is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
