
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 970 - DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR EXPLORATION LICENSES
###### Subpart E - Issuance/Transfer/Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
####### Issuance/Transfer; Modification/Revision; Suspension/Revocation
######## § 970.513 Revision of a license.

(a) During the term of an exploration license, the licensee may submit to the Administrator an application for a revision of the license or the exploration plan associated with it. NOAA recognizes that changes in circumstances encountered, and in information and technology developed, by the licensee during exploration may require such revisions. In some cases it may even be advisable to recognize at the time of filing the original license application that although the essential information for issuing or transferring a license as specified in §§ 970.201 through 920.208 must be included in such application, some details may have to be provided in the future in the form of a revision. In such instances, the Administrator may issue or transfer a license which would authorize exploration activities and plans only to the extent described in the application.

(b) The Administrator will approve such application for a revision upon a finding in writing that the revision will comply with the requirements of the Act and this part.

(c) A change which would require an application to and approval by the Administrator as a revision is a major change in one or more of:

(1) The bases for certifying the original application pursuant to §§ 970.401 through 970.406;

(2) The bases for issuing or transferring the license pursuant to §§ 970.503 through 970.507; or

(3) The terms, conditions and restrictions issued for the license pursuant to §§ 970.517 through 970.524.

(i) The applicant's ability to meet the requirements of the sections cited in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section; or

(ii) The sufficiency of the terms, conditions and restrictions to accomplish their intended purpose.
