
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 971 - DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL RECOVERY PERMITS
###### Subpart D - Issuance/Transfer: Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
####### Issuance/Transfer, Modification/Revision; Suspension/Revocation
######## ยง 971.411 Objections to terms, conditions and restrictions.

(a) The permittee may file a notice of objection to any TCR in the permit. The permittee may object on the grounds that any TCR is inconsistent with the Act or this part, or on any other grounds which may be raised under applicable provisions of law. If the permittee does not file notice of an objection within the 60-day period immediately following the permittee's receipt of the notice of issuance or transfer under ยง 971.410, the permittee will be deemed conclusively to have accepted the TCRs in the permit.

(b) Any notice of objection filed under paragraph (a) of this section must be in writing, must indicate the legal or factual basis for the objection, and must provide information relevant to any underlying factual issues deemed by the permittee as necessary to the Administrator's decision upon the objection.

(c) Within 90 days after receipt of the notice of objection, the Administrator will act on the objection and publish in theas well as provide to the permittee, written notice of the decision.

(d) If, after the Administrator takes final action on an objection, the permittee demonstrates that a dispute remains on a material issue of fact, the Administrator will provide for a formal hearing which will proceed in accordance with Subpart I of this part.

(e) Any final determination by the Administrator on an objection to TCRs in a permit, after the formal hearing provided in paragraph (d), is subject to judicial review as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
