
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 971 - DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL RECOVERY PERMITS
###### Subpart D - Issuance/Transfer: Terms, Conditions and Restrictions
####### Issuance/Transfer, Modification/Revision; Suspension/Revocation
######## § 971.413 Revision of a permit.

(a) During the term of a commercial recovery permit, the permittee may submit to the Administrator an application for a revision of the permit or the commercial recovery plan associated with it to accommodate changes desired by the permittee. In some cases it may be advisable to recognize at the time of filing the original permit application that, although the essential information for issuing or transferring a permit as specified in § 971.201 through § 971.209 must be included in such application, some details may have to be provided in the future in the form of a revision. In such instances, the Administrator may issue or transfer a permit which would authorize commercial recovery activities and plans only to the extent described in the application.

(b) An application by a permittee for a revision of a permit or its associated commercial recovery plan involving a significant change, as defined in § 971.412(b), must be followed by the full application procedures in this part, including a public hearing.

(c) An application by a permittee for a revision of a permit or its associated commercial recovery plan involving a major change, as defined in § 971.412(c) (See also § 971.425 of this part), will be acted on after notice thereof is published by the Administrator in thewith a 60-day opportunity for public comment and consultation with appropriate Federal agencies.

(d)(1) The Administrator will approve a revision if the Administrator finds in writing that the revision will comply with the requirements of the Act and this part.

(2) Notice of the Administrator's decision on the proposed revision will be provided to the permittee in writing and published in the

(e) A permittee may notify the Administrator of minor changes, as defined in § 971.412(d), subsequently in the annual report (See § 971.801 of this part).

(f) If the relative importance of the change is unclear to the permittee, the Administrator should be notified in advance so that the Administrator can decide whether a revision in accordance with § 971.412(e) is required.
