
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 971 - DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL RECOVERY PERMITS
###### Subpart I - Uniform Procedures
####### ยง 971.901 Formal hearing procedures.
######## Hearing participation.

(f)(1) Parties to the formal hearing will include:

(i) The NOAA General Counsel;

(ii) Any involved applicant, licensee or permittee; and

(iii) Any other person determined by the judge, in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) below, to be eligible to participate as a full party.

(2) Any person desiring to participate as a party in a formal hearing must submit a request to the judge to be admitted as a party. The request must be submitted within ten days after the date of mailing or publication of notice of a decision to hold a formal hearing, whichever occurs later. Such person will be allowed to participate if the judge finds that the interests of justice and a fair determination of the issues would be served by granting the request. The judge may entertain a request submitted after the expiration of the ten days, but such a request may only be granted upon an express finding on the record that:

(i) Special circumstances justify granting the request;

(ii) The interests of justice and a fair determination of the issues would be served by granting the request;

(iii) The requestor has consented to be bound by all prior written agreements and stipulations agreed to by the existing parties, and all prior orders entered in the proceedings; and

(iv) Granting the request will not cause undue delay or prejudice the rights of the existing parties.

(3)(i) Any interested person who desires to submit evidence in a formal hearing must submit a request within ten days after the dates of mailing or publication of notice of a decision to hold a formal hearing, whichever occurs later. The judge may waive the ten day rule for good cause, such as if the interested person, making this request after the expiration of the ten days, the formal hearing, and the evidence he proposes to submit may significantly affect the outcome of the proceedings.

(ii) The judge may permit an interested person to submit evidence at any formal hearing if the judge determines that such evidence is relevant to facts in dispute concerning the issue(s) being adjudicated. The fact that an interested person may submit evidence under this paragraph at a hearing does not entitle the interested person to participate in other ways in the hearing unless allowed by the judge under paragraph (f)(3)(iii) below.

(iii) The judge may allow an interested person to submit oral testimony, oral arguments or briefs, or to cross-examine witnesses or participate in other ways, if the judge determines:

(A) That the interests of justice would be better served by allowing such participation by the interested person; and

(B) That there are compelling circumstances favoring such participation by the interested person.
