
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter D - General Regulations of the Environmental Data Service
##### PART 971 - DEEP SEABED MINING REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL RECOVERY PERMITS
###### Subpart I - Uniform Procedures
####### ยง 971.901 Formal hearing procedures.
######## Filing and service of documents.

(i)(1) Whenever the regulations in this subpart or an order issued hereunder require a document to be filed within a certain period of time, such document will be considered filed as of the date of the postmark, if mailed, or (if not mailed) as of the date actually delivered to the office where filing is required. Time periods will begin to run on the day following the date of the document, paper, or event which begins at the time period.

(2) All submissions must be signed by the person making the submission, or by the person's attorney or other authorized agent or representative.

(3) Service of a document must be made by delivering or mailing a copy of the document to the known address of the person being served.

(4) Whenever the regulations in this subpart require service of a document, such service may effectively be made on the agent for the service of process or on the attorney for the person to be served.

(5) Refusal of service of a document by the person, his agent, or attorney will be deemed effective service of the document as of the date of such refusal.

(6) A certficate of the person serving the document by personal delivery or by mailing, setting forth the manner of the service, will be proof of the service.
