
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 19 - COMMERCE DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Procedures To Collect Commerce Debts
##### ยง 19.10 How will Commerce entities use administrative offset (offset of non-tax Federal payments) to collect a Commerce debt?
###### Administrative review.

(c)The notice described in ยง 19.4 of this part shall explain to the debtor how to request an administrative review of a Commerce entity's determination that the debtor owes a Commerce debt and how to present evidence that the Commerce debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable. In addition to challenging the existence and amount of the Commerce debt, the debtor may seek a review of the terms of repayment. In most cases, Commerce entities will provide the debtor with a "paper hearing" based upon a review of the written record, including documentation provided by the debtor. Commerce entities shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the Commerce debt and the Commerce entity determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the Commerce debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although Commerce entities should carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing. Commerce entities may suspend collection through administrative offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of a debtor's dispute.
