
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter E - Oil Pollution Act Regulations
##### PART 990 - NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
###### Subpart E - Restoration Planning Phase
####### ยง 990.55 Restoration selection - developing restoration plans.
######## Draft Restoration Plan.

(b)(1) The Draft Restoration Plan should include:

(i) A summary of injury assessment procedures used;

(ii) A description of the nature, degree, and spatial and temporal extent of injuries resulting from the incident;

(iii) The goals and objectives of restoration;

(iv) The range of restoration alternatives considered, and a discussion of how such alternatives were developed under ยง 990.53 of this part, and evaluated under ยง 990.54 of this part;

(v) Identification of the trustees' tentative preferred alternative(s);

(vi) A description of past and proposed involvement of the responsible parties in the assessment; and

(vii) A description of monitoring for documenting restoration effectiveness, including performance criteria that will be used to determine the success of restoration or need for interim corrective action.

(2) When developing the Draft Restoration Plan, trustees must establish restoration objectives that are specific to the injuries. These objectives should clearly specify the desired outcome, and the performance criteria by which successful restoration will be judged. Performance criteria may include structural, functional, temporal, and/or other demonstrable factors. Trustees must, at a minimum, determine what criteria will:

(i) Constitute success, such that responsible parties are relieved of responsibility for further restoration actions; or

(ii) Necessitate corrective actions in order to comply with the terms of a restoration plan or settlement agreement.

(3) The monitoring component to the Draft Restoration Plan should address such factors as duration and frequency of monitoring needed to gauge progress and success, level of sampling needed to detect success or the need for corrective action, and whether monitoring of a reference or control site is needed to determine progress and success. Reasonable monitoring and oversight costs cover those activities necessary to gauge the progress, performance, and success of the restoration actions developed under the plan.
