
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter F - Quality Assurance and Certification Requirements for NOAA Hydrographic Products and Services
##### PART 995 - CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR DISTRIBUTORS OF NOAA HYDROGRAPHIC PRODUCTS
###### Subpart B - Certification and Procedures
####### ยง 995.15 Termination of certification.

(a) In the event that NOAA determines that a CED or CEVAD is not meeting the requirements described in this part, the Office of Coast Survey, NOAA (OCS) will provide initial written notification of potential termination to the CED or CEVAD. OCS/NOAA will state in its notification to CED or CEVAD that termination of certification is under consideration.

(b) The initial notification of potential termination will be provided in writing by OCS to the CED or CEVAD, and shall state the reason for the potential termination. Reasons for termination may include, but are not limited to:

(1) CED or CEVAD contracts or in any way seeks to transfer the production or redistribution of all or part of the NOAA official data in the product to another entity.

(2) CED or CEVAD fails to, or is unable (in the opinion of NOAA) to carry out its responsibilities as described in this part.

(c) CED or CEVAD may submit written comments to OCS within 30 days of receipt of the OCS's initial written notification of potential termination, explaining why CED or CEVAD's certification should not be terminated.

(1) The written comments shall be submitted to: Director, Office of Coast Survey, National Ocean Service, NOAA (N/CS), 1315 East West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.

(2) The written comments shall contain at least:

(i) Identification and contact information of the CED or CEVAD;

(ii) A statement that CED or CEVAD is responding to an initial written notification of potential termination by OCS; and

(iii) A thorough but concise argument as to why CED or CEVAD believes that its certification should not be terminated.

(d) The Director of OCS will take all timely written comments into account before taking final action, and in no case will the Director take final action until at least 45 days after CED or CEVAD's receipt of the initial written notification. A decision to terminate by the Director of OCS will state the reasons for termination and respond to all timely written comments submitted. Any final action taken by OCS constitutes final agency action on the matter.

(e) CED or CEVAD shall notify all recipients of its products that its certification has been revoked, and that the product may no longer be valid for use. In addition, the CED or CEVAD shall provide the dates of non-compliance.
