
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter G - Requirements for Certification by NOAA of Non-Federal Assets into the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System
##### PART 997 - REGIONAL COASTAL OBSERVING SYSTEM
###### Subpart B - Certification and Decertification Process for a Regional Coastal Observing System (RCOS)
####### ยง 997.13 Certification process.

(a) NOAA's decision whether to certify the applicant, along with the reason for its decision, shall be delivered to the applicant via letter delivered by first class mail and by electronic means.

(b) Applicants receiving a certification determination in the affirmative shall be designated as "certified" RICEs by NOAA. NOAA shall memorialize this status via a memorandum of agreement with the applicant. Certification shall mean that an RCOS is incorporated into the System.

(c) A certified RCOS shall provide NOAA with written notification of the RICE's intention to substantively change its organizational structure or Strategic Operational Plan, and shall request approval from NOAA for the change. After receiving the written notification, NOAA shall have up to 30 calendar days to review the requested change and decide whether to approve the requested change. NOAA's decision, along with the reason for its decision, shall be included in a written notification to the RCOS.
