
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter G - Requirements for Certification by NOAA of Non-Federal Assets into the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System
##### PART 997 - REGIONAL COASTAL OBSERVING SYSTEM
###### Subpart C - Certification and Application Requirements for an RCOS
####### ยง 997.20 General.

(a) For the purposes of these certification regulations, when the verb "describe" is used it indicates that the RICE shall give an account in text that responds to the requirement. This text shall contain sufficient information to demonstrate how the RCOS satisfies the certification requirement. The RCOS may include a link(s) to additional information. When the verb "document" is used, it indicates that the RCOS shall furnish a document(s) that responds to the requirement. A text statement accompanying the document(s) will normally be necessary to provide context for the document(s) and to demonstrate how the RCOS satisfies the certification requirement. The RICE may include a link to a document in the accompanying text statement.

(b) Documentation that addresses the certification requirements may include references to existing RCOS documents. All documents and materials may be submitted directly to the U.S. IOOSOffice or made accessible for public viewing on the RCOS's Web site.

(c) To become certified, an RCOS must submit an application that addresses each of the requirements listed in this subpart.
