
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter G - Requirements for Certification by NOAA of Non-Federal Assets into the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System
##### PART 997 - REGIONAL COASTAL OBSERVING SYSTEM
###### Subpart C - Certification and Application Requirements for an RCOS
####### ยง 997.23 Strategic operational plan.
######## Data Management and Communications (DMAC) Plan.

(f)The Strategic Operational Plan shall include or reference a DMAC Plan that:

(1) Documents to NOAA's satisfaction that the individual(s) responsible for management of data operations for the RCOS has the necessary technical skills, and possesses relevant professional education and work experience to support DMAC capabilities and functionality for the System. At a minimum the DMAC Plan shall:

(i) Identify the individual(s) responsible for the coordination and management of observation data across the region;

(ii) Provide the curriculum vitae for the identified individual(s); and

(iii) Identify the procedures used to evaluate the capability of the individual(s) identified in ยง 997.23(f)(1) to conduct the assigned duties responsibly.

(2) Describes how data are ingested, managed and distributed, including a description of the flow of data through the RCOS data assembly center from the source to the public dissemination/access mechanism. The description shall include any transformations or modifications of data along the data flow pathway including, but not limited to, format translations or aggregations of component data streams into an integrated product.

(3) Describes the data quality control procedures that have been applied to data, not obtained through a federal data source, that are distributed by the RCOS. All data shall be quality controlled and QARTOD procedures shall be employed for data with QARTOD manuals. For each data stream, describe the quality control procedure applied to the data, by the RCOS or other named entity, between the data's collection and publication by the RICE. The description will also include a reference to the procedure used.

(4) Adheres to the NOAA Data Sharing Procedural Directive.The System is an operational system; therefore the RICE should strive to provide as much data as possible, in real-time or near real-time, to support the operation of the System. When data are collected in part or in whole with funds distributed to an RCOS through the U.S. IOOSOffice, the RICE should strive to make the data available as soon as logistically feasible for each data stream. When data are not collected with funds distributed to an RCOS through the U.S. IOOSOffice, the data may be made available in accordance with any agreement made with the data provider.

(5) Describes how the RCOS will implement data management protocols promulgated by the IOOC and the U.S. IOOSOffice in a reasonable and timely manner as defined for each protocol; and

(6) Documents the RCOS's data archiving process or describes how the RICE intends to archive data at a national archive center (e.g., NODC, NGDC, NCDC) in a manner that follows guidelines outlined by that center. Documentation shall be in the form of a Submission Agreement, Submission Information Form (SIF) or other, similar data producer-archive agreement.
