
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 19 - COMMERCE DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart B - Procedures To Collect Commerce Debts
##### ยง 19.12 How will Commerce entities offset a Federal employee's salary to collect a Commerce debt?
###### Payment agency's responsibilities.

(h)(1) As required by 5 CFR 550.1109, if the employee separates from the payment agency from which a Commerce entity has requested salary offset, the payment agency must certify the total amount of its collection and notify the Commerce entity and the employee of the amounts collected. If the payment agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, the Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the payment agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a Commerce debt, the amount of the Commerce debt, and that the Commerce entity has complied with the provisions of this section. Commerce entities must submit a properly certified claim to the new payment agency before the collection can be made.

(2) If the employee is already separated from employment and all payments due from his or her former payment agency have been made, Commerce entities may request that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, the Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the Commerce debt. Generally, Commerce entities will collect such monies through the Treasury Offset Program as described in ยง 19.9(c) of this part.

(3) When an employee transfers to another agency, Commerce entities should resume collection with the employee's new payment agency in order to continue salary offset.
