
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter G - Requirements for Certification by NOAA of Non-Federal Assets into the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System
##### PART 998 - NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION COMMISSIONED OFFICER CORPS
###### Subpart B - Appointment of Officer Candidates of the Commissioned Officer Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
####### ยง 998.10 Appointments of officer candidates.

(a) The Secretary shall determine the number of appointments of officer candidates annually.

(b) Applicants for an appointment as an officer candidate shall meet all qualifications described in ยง 998.11.

(c) Selection and appointment of officer candidates shall be made according to the procedures described in ยง 998.12.

(d) The Secretary may dismiss any officer candidate from the NOAA Corps Basic Officer Training Class who, during the candidate's term as an officer candidate, the Secretary considers unsatisfactory in either academics or conduct, or not adapted for a career in the NOAA Corps. Officer candidates shall be subject to all rules governing discipline prescribed by the Director.

(e) Each officer candidate shall sign an agreement with the Secretary regarding the officer candidate's term of service in the NOAA Corps, which shall provide that the candidate agrees to:

(1) Complete the course of instruction of the NOAA Corps Basic Officer Training Class;

(2) Upon graduation from the Basic Officer Training Class program, accept an appointment, if tendered, to the grade of ensign; and

(3) Serve on active duty in the NOAA Corps for at least four years immediately after such appointment.

(f) An officer candidate or former officer candidate who is on active duty but who has not yet met their initial service obligation under paragraph (e)(3) of this section shall be considered to be in breach of their written agreement if they do not fulfill the terms of their service.

(g) An individual found to be in breach of their written agreement shall be subject to the repayment provisions of ยง 998.30.
