
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter G - Requirements for Certification by NOAA of Non-Federal Assets into the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System
##### PART 998 - NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION COMMISSIONED OFFICER CORPS
###### Subpart C - Active Duty Service Obligations of NOAA Corps Officers
####### ยง 998.22 Policy.

(a) In general, individuals entering active duty in the NOAA Corps must complete at least four years of obligated service upon appointment.

(b) NOAA Corps officers who complete Government-funded or -sponsored formal education and training programs shall incur an ADSO. Officers must fulfill ADSOs before they are eligible for voluntary separation. The Director may grant a waiver of the ADSO as described in ยง 998.29. Officers will not be further obligated beyond the dates that ADSOs are fulfilled without their written consent. Officers who attend NOAA Corps and officer training programs, or civilian courses of instruction as stated in this Subpart may incur an ADSO for up to six years upon completion or termination from the course(s).

(c) All NOAA Corps officers shall enter into written agreements that describe the officer's obligated service requirements prescribed in this subpart in return for such Government-funded or -sponsored education and training. The written agreement shall document the total cost of training that may be subject to the repayment provisions of ยง 998.30.
