
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter IX - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce
#### Subchapter G - Requirements for Certification by NOAA of Non-Federal Assets into the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System
##### PART 998 - NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION COMMISSIONED OFFICER CORPS
###### Subpart D - National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Whistleblower Protections
####### ยง 998.44 Responsibilities.

(a) The Inspector General of the Department of Commerce:

(1) Shall expeditiously determine whether there is sufficient evidence to warrant an investigation of an allegation that a personnel action has been taken, withheld, or threatened as reprisal for making or preparing or being perceived as making or preparing a protected communication. No investigation is required when such allegation is submitted more than 1 year after the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer became aware of the personnel action that is the subject of the allegation. However, the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce may consider a complaint of reprisal received more than 1 year later based on compelling reasons or circumstances. These circumstances may include situations in which the NOAA Corps officer or former NOAA Corps officer:

(i) Was actively misled regarding their rights; or

(ii) Was prevented from exercising their rights.

(2) Shall, if an investigation described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is warranted, initiate a separate investigation of the underlying allegations contained in the protected communication if a prior investigation has not already been initiated, or if the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce determines that the prior investigation was biased or inadequate.

(3) Shall, except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, complete the investigation of the allegation of reprisal and issue a report not later than 180 days after receipt of the allegation, which shall include a thorough review of the facts and circumstances relevant to the allegation, the relevant documents acquired during the investigation, and summaries of interviews conducted. The report may also include a recommendation as to the disposition of the complaint.
