
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter XIV - Minority Business Development Agency
#### PART 1400 - DETERMINATION OF GROUP ELIGIBILITY FOR MBDA ASSISTANCE
##### ยง 1400.4 Evidence of social or economic disadvantage.

(a) The representatives of the group requesting formal designation should establish social or economic disadvantage by a preponderance of the evidence. Social or economic disadvantage must be chronic, long standing, and substantial, not fleeting or insignificant. In determining whether a group has made an adequate showing that it has suffered chronic racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias for the purposes of this regulation, a determination will be made as to whether this group has suffered the effects of discriminatory practices over which its members have no control. Applicants must demonstrate that such social or economic conditions have produced impediments in the business world for members of the group which are not common to all business people in the same or similar business and market place.

(b) Evidence which will be considered in determining whether groups are socially or economically disadvantaged includes but is not limited to:

(1) Statistical profile outlining the national income level and standard of living enjoyed by members of the group in comparison to the income level and standard of living enjoyed by individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.

(2) Evidence of employment discrimination suffered by members of the group in comparison to employment opportunities available to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.

(3) Evidence of educational discrimination in comparison to educational opportunities available to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.

(4) Evidence of denial of access to organizations, groups, or professional societies, whether in business or in school, based solely upon racial and/or ethnic considerations.

(5) Kinds of businesses and business opportunities available to group members in comparison to the kinds of businesses and business opportunities available to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.

(6) Availability of capital to group members in comparison to the availability of capital to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.

(7) Availability of technical and managerial resources to group members in comparison to the technical and managerial resources available to individuals not considered to be members of socially or economically disadvantaged groups.

(8) Any other evidence of denial of opportunity or access to those things which would enable the individual to participate more successfully in the American economic system, available to individuals not considered to be members of social or economically disadvantaged groups.
