
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter XV - Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce
#### PART 1500 - CONCRETE MASONRY RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart A - Concrete Masonry Products Research, Education, and Promotion Order
###### Concrete Masonry Products Board
####### ยง 1500.40 Establishment and membership.

(a) The Board is hereby established to carry out a program of generic promotion, research, and education regarding concrete masonry products. The Board shall consist of manufacturers and of not fewer than 15 and not more than 25 members appointed by the Secretary, from nominations submitted as set forth in ยง 1500.41. No employee of an industry trade organization exempt from tax under paragraph (3) or (6) of section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 representing the concrete masonry industry or related industries shall serve as a member of the Board and no member of the Board may serve concurrently as an officer of the board of directors of a national concrete masonry products industry trade association.

(b) The initial Board and all subsequent Boards, unless modified by the Board as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, shall be subject to the following:

(1) To ensure fair and equitable representation of the concrete masonry products industry, the composition of the Board shall reflect the geographical distribution of the manufacture of concrete masonry products in the United States, the types of concrete masonry products manufactured, and the range in size of manufacturers in the United States.

(2) No company or its affiliates shall have more than two members on the Board.

(c) To the extent possible, dependent on the nominees submitted, the Secretary will strive to appoint at least two members from each region. Similarly, the Secretary will strive to appoint at least one member from each of the following districts:

(d) Three years after the assessment of concrete masonry units commences pursuant to implementation of this Order, and at the end of each three-year period thereafter, the Board, subject to the review and approval of the Secretary, shall, if warranted, recommend to the Secretary the reapportionment of the Board membership to reflect changes in the geographical distribution of the manufacture of concrete masonry products and the types of concrete masonry products manufactured. Additionally, at any time, the Board may make recommendations to the Secretary to modify the composition of the regions and districts set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
