
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter XV - Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce
#### PART 1500 - CONCRETE MASONRY RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart A - Concrete Masonry Products Research, Education, and Promotion Order
###### Concrete Masonry Products Board
####### ยง 1500.45 Procedure.

(a) The Board will meet at least annually. A Board meeting will be conducted only when a quorum is present. A majority of the Board members will constitute a quorum. If participation by telephone or other means is permitted, members participating by such means shall count as present in determining quorum or other voting requirements set forth in this section.

(b) At the start of each fiscal period, the Board will select a Chair, Vice- Chair, Secretary-Treasurer and other officers as appropriate who will serve in leadership roles throughout that period.

(c) The Board will provide members and manufacturers a minimum of 14 days advance notice of all Board meetings.

(d) Each Board member will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to vote, and the motion will carry if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the total votes represented by the Board members participating, with the exception of the affirmative vote of two-thirds of voting members required to change the assessment rate as specified in ยง 1500.51(c).

(e) The Board may form committees as necessary. Committees may consist of individuals other than Board members. Committee members shall serve without compensation.

(f) When the Board Chair determines that a vote outside a convened Board meeting is necessary, such vote may take place via electronic means only if members are given fourteen days prior notice, and if a majority of the voting Board members participate prior to the established deadline. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a regularly convened meeting of the Board.

(g) All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.

(h) There shall be no voting by proxy.

(i) Board members shall each have one vote. Alternate members shall not vote. The Chair and all Board officers shall be elected from voting members of the Board.

(j) The organization of the Board and the procedures for the conducting of meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Board and approved by the Secretary.

(k) Meetings of the Board and committees may be conducted by electronic communications, provided that each member and committee member, if such committee member is not a member of the Board, is given prior written notice of the meeting and has the opportunity to be present either physically or by electronic connection.
