
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter XV - Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce
#### PART 1500 - CONCRETE MASONRY RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart A - Concrete Masonry Products Research, Education, and Promotion Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1500.50 Budget and expenses.

(a) Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and during the fiscal year as may be necessary, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary for approval a budget for the fiscal year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this Order, including the probable cost of each promotion, research, and education activity proposed to be developed or carried out by the Board and a section that annotates and explains any shortcomings, overruns, and shift of funds from the previous year's budget. Such budget shall be deemed approved if the Secretary fails to approve or reject the budget within 60 days of receipt, unless the Secretary proposes to the Board and to Congress, reasonable justification for the delay and provides a reasonable date by which approval or disapproval will be made. The Department may provide such justification in any written format.

(b) In addition to paragraph (a) of this section, each such budget shall include:

(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project, with a comparative for the preceding year-annotating the success and explaining the shortcomings of the preceding year's programs, plans, and projects

(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget);

(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan or project; and

(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget).

(c) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures.

(d) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Secretary, including shifting funds from one program or project to another. A shift of funds from one approved category to another, and not exceeding 10% of the funds in either category, which does not cause an increase in the Board's approved budget and which is consistent with governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Secretary. If the Secretary fails to approve or reject a budget, or an amendment or addition to an approved budget, within 60 days of receipt, such budget shall be deemed approved, unless the Secretary provides to the Board and to Congress, in writing, reasonable justification for the delay and provides a reasonable date by which approval or disapproval will be made. The Department may provide such justification in any written format.

(e) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this Order. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.

(f) Limitations on obligation of funds:

(1) In each fiscal year, through fiscal year 2030, the Board may not obligate an amount greater than the sum of-

(i) 73 percent of the amount of assessments estimated to be collected under ยง 1500.51 in such fiscal year);

(ii) 73 percent of the amount of assessments actually collected under ยง 1500.51 in the most recent fiscal year for which an audit report has been submitted as of the beginning of the fiscal year for which the amount that may be obligated is being determined, less the estimate made pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section for such most recent fiscal year; and

(iii) Amounts permitted in preceding fiscal years to be obligated that have not been obligated.

(iv) For fiscal years 9 and 10 (ending September 2028 and 2029) there is a special rule for estimates. Specifically, the amounts estimated to be collected shall be 62 percent of the amount of assessments actually collected in the most recent fiscal year for which an audit report has been submitted as of the beginning of the fiscal year for which the amount be obligated is being determined.

(2) Assessments collected in excess of the amount permitted to be obligated in a fiscal year shall be deposited in an escrow account until the end of the 11th fiscal year or September 2030.

(3) Prior to the end of the 11th fiscal year or September 30, 2030, the Board may not obligate, expend, or borrow against amounts deposited in the escrow account. Any interest earned on such amounts shall be deposited in the escrow account and shall be unavailable for obligation until the end of the 11th fiscal year or September 30, 2030.

(g) With approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays.

(h) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration and supervision of this Order, including all referendum costs in connection with this Order.

(i) Following the third fiscal year of operation of the Board, the total cost of collection of expenses and administrative staff incurred by the Board during any fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the projected total assessments to be collected and other income received by the Board for that fiscal year after any fees owed to the Department are paid. Reimbursements to the Secretary required under paragraph (g) of this section are excluded from this limitation on spending.

(j) Pending disbursement of assessments and all other revenue under a budget approved by the Secretary, the Board may invest assessments and all other revenues collected under this section in:

(1) Obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States;

(2) General obligations of any state or any political subdivision of a state;

(3) Interest bearing accounts or certificates of deposit of financial institutions that are members of the Federal Reserve System; or

(4) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal interest by the United States.

(k) Investment income and revenue earned under paragraph (i) of this section are earnings obtained from assessments that are subject to budget approval under paragraph (a) of this section.
