
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter XV - Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce
#### PART 1500 - CONCRETE MASONRY RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart A - Concrete Masonry Products Research, Education, and Promotion Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1500.60 Programs and projects.
######## see

(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval any program or project authorized under this Order. Such programs or projects shall be consistent with the purpose of the Act (15 U.S.C. 8701) and provide for:

(1) The establishment of annual research, education, and promotion objectives and metrics for each fiscal year. Objectives and performance metrics should consider and where possible reflect those listed in 15 U.S.C. 8716 (Study and report by the Government Accounting Office).

(2) The establishment, issuance, effectuation and administration of appropriate programs for research, education, and promotion with respect to concrete masonry products; and

(3) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to the image, desirability, use, marketability, quality or production of concrete masonry products, to the end that the marketing and use of concrete masonry products may be encouraged, expanded, improved or made more acceptable and to advance the image, desirability or quality of concrete masonry product.

(b) No program or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it. If the Secretary fails to approve or reject a contract or agreement for a program or project within 60 days of receipt, the contract or agreement shall be deemed approved, unless the Secretary provides to the Board and to Congress, in writing, reasonable justification for the delay and provides a reasonable date by which approval or disapproval will be made. The Department may provide such justification in any written format. Any such contract or agreement shall provide that:

(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program or project together with a budget or budgets that specifies the cost to be incurred to carry out the program or project;

(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require;

(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically;

(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor; and

(5) The contract or agreement shall become effective on the approval of the Secretary.

(c) Each program or project implemented under this Order shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of research, education, or promotion. If it is found by the Board that any such program or project does not contribute to an effective program of research, education, or promotion, then the Board shall, with the approval of the Secretary, terminate such program or project.

(d) Any educational or promotional activity undertaken with funds provided by the Board shall include a statement that such activities were supported in whole or in part by the Board.

(e) Every 2 years the Board shall prepare and make publicly available a comprehensive and detailed report that includes an identification and description of all programs and projects undertaken by the Board during the previous 2 years as well as those planned for the subsequent 2 years and detail the allocation or planned allocation of Board resources for each such program or project. Such report shall also include:

(1) The overall financial condition of the Board;

(2) A summary of the amounts obligated or expended during the 2 preceding fiscal years; and

(3) A description of the extent to which the objectives of the Board were met according to the metrics required under ยง 1500.50.
