
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter XV - Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce
#### PART 1500 - CONCRETE MASONRY RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart A - Concrete Masonry Products Research, Education, and Promotion Order
###### Miscellaneous
####### ยง 1500.81 Referenda.

(a) A referendum will be held to determine whether manufacturers favor enactment of this Order. A manufacturer shall be considered eligible to vote if the manufacturer has manufactured concrete masonry products during a period of at least 180 days prior to the first day of the period during which voting in the referendum will occur. For the initial referendum, an eligible person is a manufacturer of concrete units that is subject to the initial rate of assessment in ยง 1500.51. Each manufacturer eligible to vote in the referendum shall be entitled to one vote. This Order became effective after approval by a majority of manufacturers voting who also represent a majority of the machine cavities in operation of those manufacturers voting in the referendum.

(b) After the initial referendum, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum upon the request of the Board, or effective beginning November 30, 2026, and at 5-year intervals thereafter, by petition from not less than 25% of manufacturers eligible to vote. Each manufacturer eligible to vote in subsequent referenda shall be entitled to one vote. The Order will remain in effect if approved by a majority of manufactures voting who also represent a majority of the machine cavities in operation of those manufacturers voting in the referendum.

(c) For any new proposed order, voter eligibility will be based on the scope of such proposed order. A future proposed Order becomes effective if approved by a majority of manufacturers voting and any other criteria established by the Secretary based on the scope of such future proposed order.
