
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter XV - Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce
#### PART 1500 - CONCRETE MASONRY RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart B - Referendum Procedures
###### ยง 1500.102 Voting.

(a) Each eligible manufacturer shall be entitled to cast one vote.

(b) The order shall become effective only if the Secretary determines that the order has been approved by a majority of manufacturers voting who also represent a majority of the machine cavities in operation of those manufacturers voting in the referendum.

(c) In order to vote, a manufacturer must register by midnight of the day prior to the start of the referendum period.

(d) For referendum purposes the Department will use Employer Identification Numbers (EIN) to identify unique manufacturers.

(e) An officer or employee of an eligible manufacturer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity provided that any individual so voting shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of an agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority. The Secretary does not authorize proxy voting.

(f) Voters are to cast ballots by the means specified by the Secretary, such means could include in person, mail-in, fax, via internet link, or through use of voting software. In the case of the initial referendum, the Department will use a combination of mail-in and fax to allow voters to cast ballots.

(g) If the Department requests, manufacturers shall provide proof of sales, proof of cavities in operation, or any other such proof the Department deems necessary to establish voting eligibility. Failure to provide the requested proof to the Department will result in ineligibility to participate in the referendum.
