
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
### Chapter XV - Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce
#### PART 1500 - CONCRETE MASONRY RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart B - Referendum Procedures
###### ยง 1500.103 Instructions.

The agent(s) shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this subpart, under the supervision of the Secretary. The Secretary may prescribe additional instructions, consistent with the provisions of this subpart, to govern the procedure to be followed by the agent(s). Such agent(s) shall:

(a) Determine the period during which voters may cast ballots;

(b) Provide notification to allow interested voters to register in advance of the referendum period. The Department will restrict the information requested to that information needed to ensure eligibility of request or to participate in the referendum. Types of information will include name, contact information (address, phone number, email), status as a manufacturer of concrete masonry units, affirmation of having manufactured concrete masonry units within 180 days prior to the beginning of the referendum period, the number of machine cavities in operation, their Employer Identification Number, and similar identifying information;

(c) Provide ballots and related material to voters for use in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including information needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter. The Department will restrict the information requested to that information needed to determine a voter's eligibility. Information will include the name and address of the manufacturer, status as a manufacturer of concrete masonry units, affirmation that they have manufactured concrete masonry units within 180 days of the beginning of the referendum period, manufacturer Employer Identification Number, the number of machine cavities the manufacturer has in operation, and similar verification information;

(d) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:

(1) By using available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to webinars and other such media vehicles; and

(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable;

(e) Send to eligible manufacturers whose names and addresses are known to the agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed order;

(f) At the end of the referendum period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of the Lead Executive authorized to monitor the referendum process;

(g) Prepare a report on the referendum; and

(h) Announce the results to the public.
