
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle C - Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
### Chapter XX - Office of the United States Trade Representative
#### PART 2002 - OPERATION OF COMMITTEES
##### ยง 2002.3 Section 301 Committee.

(a) There is hereby established, as a subordinate body of the Trade Policy Staff Committee, the Section 301 Committee. The Chairman of the Section 301 Committee shall be designated by the Deputy Special Representative from the Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations. The Committee shall consist of the Chairman and, with respect to each complaint, such members as may be designated by agencies which have an interest in the issues raised by the particular complaint and whose participation is invited by the Chairman of the Committee.

(b) The Section 301 Committee performs the following functions unless such functions are assigned to a different body by the Special Representative, or his designee:

(1) Reviews complaints received pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974.

(2) Provides an opportunity by the holding of public hearings upon request by a complainant or an interested party, as appropriate, and by such other means as the Special Representative, a Deputy Special Representative or the Chairman of the section 301 Committee deems appropriate, for any interested party to present his views to the section 301 Committee concerning foreign restrictions, acts, policies, and practices affecting U.S. commerce, and United States actions in response thereto, as provided for in section 301 of the Trade Act (Pub. L. 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978).

(3) Reports to the Trade Policy Staff Committee the results of reviews and hearings conducted with respect to complaints received pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act.

(4) On the basis of its review of petitions filed under section 301 and of the views received through hearings or otherwise on such petitions, makes recommendations to the TPSC for review by that committee.
