
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle C - Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
### Chapter XX - Office of the United States Trade Representative
#### PART 2003 - REGULATIONS OF TRADE POLICY STAFF COMMITTEE
##### ยง 2003.2 Testimony and submission of written briefs.

(a) Participation by an interested party in a public hearing announced under ยง 2003.1 shall require the submission of a written brief before the close of the period announced, in the public notice for its submission. Such brief may be, but need not be, supplemented by the presentation of oral testimony in accordance with ยง 2003.4.

(b) A written brief by an interested party concerning any aspect of the trade agreements program or any related matter not subject to paragraph (a) of this section, and submitted pursuant to a public notice shall be submitted before the close of the period announced in the public notice for its submission.

(c) A written brief shall state clearly the position taken and shall describe with particularity the evidence supporting such position. It shall be submitted in not less than twenty (20) copies which shall be legibly typed, printed, or duplicated.

(d) In order to assure each party an opportunity to contest the information provided by other interested parties, the Committee will entertain rebuttal briefs filed by any party within a time limit specified by the Committee. Rebuttal briefs shall conform, in form and number, to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. Rebuttal briefs should be strictly limited to demonstrating errors of fact or analysis not pointed out in the briefs or hearings and should be as concise as possible.

(e) A written brief by an interested party concerning any aspect of the Trade Agreements Program or any related matter not subject to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may be submitted at any time.

(f) The requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section may be waived by the Special Representative, the Deputy Special Representative, or the Chairman of the Committee for reasons of equity and the public interest.
