
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle C - Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
### Chapter XX - Office of the United States Trade Representative
#### PART 2004 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
###### ยง 2004.3 How do I make a request for records under the FOIA?
####### How do I describe the records I want?

(b)(1) You must describe the records you seek in sufficient detail to enable USTR personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To satisfy this requirement, you should be as detailed as possible when describing the records you seek. To the extent possible, you should include specific information that may help us identify the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. For example, we generally will ask you to clarify a request for all records related to a particular trade negotiation or agreement or a request for all communications between USTR and a particular third party. We suggest that you include a date limitation, particular topics, and if asking for correspondence, the subject matter and the relevant parties with contact information such as their email addresses.

(2) If a request does not provide sufficient specific descriptive information for the FOIA Office reasonably to ascertain exactly which records you are requesting and to locate them, our response may be delayed. Please note that in response to a FOIA request, we are not required to create records, conduct research for you, analyze data, answer written questions, or parse your narrative to try and determine the specific records you are seeking. You can contact the FOIA Office before you submit your request for assistance in describing the records you are seeking. If we determine that your request does not reasonably describe the records sought, we will explain why we cannot process your request and ask for additional information. For example, we might ask you to clarify your request if you ask for all documents in a certain date range but do not include a specific subject matter, topic or personnel. We can help you reformulate or modify your request.
