
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle C - Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
### Chapter XX - Office of the United States Trade Representative
#### PART 2004 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
###### ยง 2004.9 Fees.
####### Search.

(1)(i) We will not assess any search fees for processing requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media. For all other requesters, we will charge for time spent searching even if we do not locate any responsive records or if we determine that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure. We will provide two hours of free search time except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use.

(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, we will charge $76/hour, which is a blended hourly rate for all personnel in the FOIA Office, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits.

(iii) We will charge the direct costs if it is necessary to create a new computer program to locate the requested records. We will notify you of the costs associated with creating such a program, and you must agree to pay the associated costs before we build the program.

(iv) If your request requires the retrieval of records stored at a Federal records center, we will charge additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by the National Archives and Records Administration.
