
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle C - Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
### Chapter XX - Office of the United States Trade Representative
#### PART 2004 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
###### ยง 2004.9 Fees.
####### Advance payments.

(g)(1) If we determine or estimate that the total fee will exceed $250, we may require you to make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before we begin to process your request.

(2) If you previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to any Federal agency within thirty calendar days of the billing date, we may require proof that you paid the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and that you make an advance payment to us of the full amount of any anticipated fee before we begin to process a new request or continue to process a pending request or any pending appeal. If we have a reasonable basis to believe that you have misrepresented your identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, we may require you to provide proof of identity.

(3) If we require advance payment, we will not consider your request received and will not do any additional work until we receive the required payment. We will close your request if you do not pay the advance payment within thirty calendar days after the date of our fee determination.

(4) Before we provide records in response to your request, we may collect payments you owe for work we already have completed.
