
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle C - Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
### Chapter XX - Office of the United States Trade Representative
#### PART 2006 - PROCEDURES FOR FILING PETITIONS FOR ACTION UNDER SECTION 301 OF THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
##### ยง 2006.1 Information to be included in petition.
###### General information.

(a)Petitions submitted pursuant to section 302 of the Trade Act shall clearly state on the first page that the petition requests that action be taken under section 301 of the Trade Act and shall contain allegations and information reasonably available to petitioner in support of the request, in the form specified below. Petitioners for whom such information is difficult or impossible to obtain shall provide as much information as possible, and assistance in filing their petition may be obtained through the Chairman of the Section 301 Committee. All petitions shall:

(1) Identify the petitioner and the person, firm or association, if any, which petitioner represents and describe briefly the economic interest of the petitioner which is directly affected by the failure of a foreign government or instrumentality to grant rights of the United States under a trade agreement, or which is otherwise directly affected economically by an act, policy, or practice which is actionable under section 301.

(2) Describe the rights of the United States being violated or denied under the trade agreement which petitioner seeks to enforce or the other act, policy or practice which is the subject of the petition, and provide a reference to the particular part of section 301 related to the assertion in the petition.

(3) Include, wherever possible, copies of laws or regulations which are the subject of the petition. If this is not possible, the laws and regulations shall be identified with the greatest possible particularity, such as by citation.

(4) Identify the foreign country or instrumentality with whom the United States has an agreement under which petitioner is asserting rights claimed to be denied or whose acts, policies or practices are the subject of the petition.

(5) Identify the product, service, intellectual property right, or foreign direct investment matter for which the rights of the United States under the agreement claimed to be violated or denied are sought, or which is subject to the act, policy or practice of the foreign government or instrumentality named in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(6) Demonstrate that rights of the United States under a trade agreement are not being provided; or show the manner in which the act, policy or practice violates or is inconsistent with the provisions of a trade agreement or otherwise denies benefits accruing to the United States under a trade agreement, or is unjustifiable, unreasonable, or discriminatory and burdens or restricts United States commerce.

(7) Provide information concerning

(i) The degree to which U.S. commerce is burdened or restricted by the denial of rights under a trade agreement or by any other act, policy, or practice which is actionable under section 301,

(ii) The volume of trade in the goods or services involved, and

(iii) A description of the methodology used to calculate the burden or restriction on U.S. commerce.

(8) State whether petitioner has filed or is filing for other forms of relief under the Trade Act or any other provision of law. If the foreign government practice at issue is the subject of investigation under any other provision of law, the USTR may determine not to initiate an investigation; or if the same matter is subsequently subject to investigation under some other provision of law, USTR may terminate the section 302 investigation.
