
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle C - Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
### Chapter XX - Office of the United States Trade Representative
#### PART 2006 - PROCEDURES FOR FILING PETITIONS FOR ACTION UNDER SECTION 301 OF THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
##### ยง 2006.7 Public hearings.

(a) A public hearing for the purpose of receiving views on the issues raised in a petition shall be held by the Section 301 Committee:

(1) Within 30 days after the date that an investigation is initiated under section 302(a)(2) if a hearing is requested in the petition (or later, if agreed to by the petitioner); or

(2) Within a reasonable period if, after the investigation is initiated, a timely request is made by the petitioner, or any other interested person as defined in ยง 2006.3(b).

(b) Prior to making a recommendation on what action, if any, should be taken in response to issues raised in the petition, the Section 301 Committee shall hold a public hearing upon the written request of any interested person. An interested person should submit an application to the Section 301 Chairman stating briefly the interest of the person requesting the hearing, the firm, person, or association he represents, and the position to be taken. A hearing so requested shall be held:

(1) Prior to determining what action should be taken under section 301, and after at least 30 days' notice; or

(2) Within 30 days after the determination of action is made, if the Trade Representative determines that expeditious action is required.

(c) After receipt of a request for a public hearing under sections 302(a)(4)(B) or 304(b)(1)(A) of the Trade Act, the Chairman of the Section 301 Committee will notify the applicant whether the request meets the requirements of this part, and if not, the reasons therefor. If the applicant has met the requirements of this part, he will receive at least 30 days' notice of the time and place of the hearing.

(d) Notice of public hearings to be held under sections 302(a)(4)(B) and 304(b)(1)(A) shall be published in theby the Chairman of the Section 301 Committee.
