
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle C - Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
### Chapter XX - Office of the United States Trade Representative
#### PART 2016 - PROCEDURES TO PETITION FOR WITHDRAWAL OR SUSPENSION OF COUNTRY ELIGIBILITY OR DUTY-FREE TREATMENT UNDER THE ANDEAN TRADE PREFERENCE ACT (ATPA), AS AMENDED
##### ยง 2016.1 Action following receipt of petitions.

(a) USTR shall publish in thea list of petitions filed in response to the announcement of the annual review, including the subject matter of the request and, where appropriate, the description of the article or articles covered by the request.

(b) Thereafter, the Andean Subcommittee shall conduct a preliminary review of the petitions, and shall submit the results of its preliminary review to the TPSC. The TPSC shall review the work of the Andean Subcommittee and shall conduct further review as necessary. The TPSC shall prepare recommendations for the President on any proposed action to modify the ATPA. The Chairman of the TPSC may, as appropriate, convene the Trade Policy Review Group (TPRG) to review the matter, and thereafter refer the matter to the USTR for Cabinet-level review as necessary.

(c) The USTR, after receiving the advice of the TPSC, TPRG, or Cabinet-level officials, shall make recommendations to the President on any proposed action to modify the application of the ATPA's benefits to countries or articles. The President (or if that function is delegated to the USTR, the USTR) shall announce in theany such action he proposes to take. The USTR shall announce in thenotice of the results of the preliminary review, together with a schedule for receiving public input regarding such proposed action consistent with section 203(e) of the ATPA, as amended (19 U.S.C. 3202(e)).

(1) The schedule shall include the deadline and guidelines for any person to submit written comments supporting, opposing or otherwise commenting on any proposed action.

(2) The schedule shall also include the time and place of the public hearing, as well as the deadline and guidelines for submitting requests to present oral testimony.

(d) After receiving and considering public input, the Andean Subcommittee shall submit the results of the final review to the TPSC. The TPSC shall review the work of the Andean Subcommittee and shall conduct further review as necessary. The TPSC shall prepare recommendations for the President on any proposed action to modify the application of benefits under the ATPA to countries or articles. The Chairman of the TPSC may, as appropriate, convene the TPRG to review the matter, and thereafter refer the matter to the USTR for Cabinet-level review as necessary. The USTR, after receiving the advice of the TPSC, TPRG, or Cabinet-level officials, shall make recommendations to the President on any proposed action to modify the application of the ATPA's benefits to countries or articles, including recommendations that no action be taken. The USTR shall also forward to the President any documentation necessary to implement the recommended proposed action or actions to modify the application of the ATPA's benefits to countries or articles.

(e) In considering whether to recommend any proposed action to modify the ATPA, the Andean Subcommittee, on behalf of the TPSC, TPRG, or Cabinet-level officials, shall review all relevant information submitted in connection with a petition or otherwise available.
