
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 20 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart D - Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
##### ยง 20.13 Investigation.

(a) Informal investigation:

(1) DOC will investigate complaints that are unresolved after mediation or are reopended because of a violation of a mediation agreement.

(2) As part of the initial investigation, DOC will use informal factfinding methods, including joint or separate discussions with the complainant and recipient, to establish the facts and, if possible, settle the complaint on terms that are mutually agreeable to the parties. DOC may seek the assistance of any involved State agency.

(3) DOC will put any agreement in writing and have it signed by the parties and an authorized offical at DOC.

(4) The settlement shall not affect the operation of any other enforcement effort of DOC, including compliance reviews and investigation or other complaints which may involve the recipient.

(5) The settlement is not a finding of discrimination against a recipient.

(b) Formal investigation: If DOC cannot resolve the complaint through informal investigation, it will begin to develop formal findings through further investigation of the complaint. If the investigation indicates a violation of these regulations, DOC will attempt to obtain voluntary compliance. If DOC cannot obtain voluntary compliance, it will begin enforcement as described in ยง 8a.15.
