
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 20 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart D - Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
##### ยง 20.15 Compliance procedure.

(a) DOC may enforce the Act and these regulations by:

(1) Terminating the Federal financial assistance to the recipient under the program or activity found to have violated the Act or these regulations. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge. If a case is settled during mediation, or prior to hearing, Federal financial assistance to the program or activity will not be terminated.

(2) Any other means authorized by law including but not limited to:

(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or these regulations.

(ii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State, or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or these regulations.

(b) DOC will limit any termination under this section to the particular recipient and particular program or activity or part of such program or activity DOC finds in violation of these regulations. DOC will not base any part of a termination on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not receive Federal financial assistance from DOC.

(c) DOC will take no action under paragraph (a) until:

(1) The head of the organization providing the financial assistance has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the Act and these regulations and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained.

(2) Thirty days have elapsed after the Secretary has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of the Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the program or activity involved. The Secretary will file a report whenever any action is taken under paragraph (a).

(d) DOC also may defer granting new Federal financial assistance to a recipient when a hearing under ยง 20.16 is initiated.

(1) New Federal financial assistance from DOC includes all assistance for which DOC requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities, or authorization of new activities, during the deferral period. New Federal financial assistance from DOC does not include increases in funding as a result of changed computation of formula awards or assistance approved prior to the beginning of a hearing under ยง 20.16.

(2) DOC will not begin a deferral until the recipient has received a notice of an opportunity for a hearing under ยง 20.16. DOC will not continue a deferral for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time, or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the head of the organization providing Federal financial assistance. DOC will not continue a deferral for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.

(3) DOC will limit any deferral to the particular recipient and particular program or activity or part of such program or activity DOC finds in violation of these regulations. DOC will not base any part of a deferral on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not, and would not in connection with the new funds, receive Federal financial assistance for DOC.
