
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 4 - DISCLOSURE OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 4.10 Appeals from initial determinations or untimely delays.
###### FOIAAppeals@doc.gov,http://foiaonline.regulations.gov,

(b)(1) Appeals, other than appeals from requests made to the Office of Inspector General, shall be decided by the Assistant General Counsel for Employment, Litigation, and Information (AGC-ELI). Written appeals should be addressed to the Assistant General Counsel for Employment, Litigation, and Information, at the U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of the General Counsel, Room 5896, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230. For a written appeal, both the letter and the appeal envelope should be clearly marked "Freedom of Information Act Appeal." Appeals may also be submitted electronically either by email toor online at the FOIAonline website,if requesters have a FOIAonline account. In all cases, the appeal (written or electronic) should include a copy of the original request and initial denial, if any. All appeals should include a statement of the reasons why the records requested should be made available and why the adverse determination was in error. No opportunity for personal appearance, oral argument or hearing on appeal is provided. Upon receipt of an appeal, AGC-ELI ordinarily shall send an acknowledgement letter to the requester which shall confirm receipt of the requester's appeal.
