
# Title 15 - Commerce and Foreign Trade
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Commerce
### PART 25 - PROGRAM
#### Fraud Civil Remedies
##### ยง 25.46 Compromise or settlement.

(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.

(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision. If the designated representative of the Government is not with the Office of General Counsel, the representative shall forward all settlement offers to the reviewing official and cannot negotiate a compromise or settlement with the respondent except as directed by the reviewing official.

(c) The authority head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under ยง 25.42 or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties and assessments under ยง 25.43.

(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any review under ยง 25.42 or of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.

(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.

(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
