
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN TRADEMARK CASES
##### Post Notice of Allowance
###### ยง 2.89 Extensions of time for filing a statement of use.
####### First extension request after issuance of notice of allowance.

(a)The applicant may request a six-month extension of time to file the statement of use required by ยง 2.88. The extension request must be filed within six months of the date of issuance of the notice of allowance under section 13(b)(2) of the Act and must include the following:

(1) A written request for an extension of time to file the statement of use;

(2) The fee required by ยง 2.6 per class. The applicant must pay a filing fee sufficient to cover at least one class within the statutory time for filing the extension request, or the request will be denied. If the applicant submits a fee insufficient to cover all the classes in a multiple-class application, the applicant should specify the classes to be abandoned. If the applicant timely submits a fee sufficient to pay for at least one class, but insufficient to cover all the classes, and the applicant has not specified the class(es) to be abandoned, the Office will issue a notice granting the applicant additional time to submit the fee(s) for the remaining classes, or specify the class(es) to be abandoned. If the applicant does not submit the required fee(s) or specify the class(es) to be abandoned within the set time period, the Office will apply the fees paid, beginning with the lowest numbered class, in ascending order. The Office will delete the class(es) not covered by the fees submitted; and

(3) A verified statement that the applicant has a continued bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce, specifying the relevant goods or services, for trademarks or service marks; or that the applicant has a continued bona fide intention, and is entitled, to exercise legitimate control over the use of the mark in commerce, specifying the relevant goods, services, or collective membership organization, for collective marks or certification marks. If this verified statement is unsigned or signed by the wrong party, the applicant must submit a substitute verified statement within six months of the date of issuance of the notice of allowance.
