
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN TRADEMARK CASES
##### Post Notice of Allowance
###### ยง 2.89 Extensions of time for filing a statement of use.
####### Good cause.

(d)A showing of good cause must include:

(1) For a trademark or service mark, a statement of the applicant's ongoing efforts to make use of the mark in commerce on or in connection with each of the relevant goods or services. Those efforts may include product or service research or development, market research, manufacturing activities, promotional activities, steps to acquire distributors, steps to obtain governmental approval, or other similar activities. In the alternative, the applicant must submit a satisfactory explanation for the failure to make efforts to use the mark in commerce.

(2) For a collective mark, a statement of ongoing efforts to make use of the mark in commerce by members on or in connection with each of the relevant goods or services or in connection with the applicant's collective membership organization. Those efforts may include the development of standards, the steps taken to acquire members such as marketing and promotional activities targeted to potential members, training members regarding the standards, or other similar activities. In the alternative, the applicant must submit a satisfactory explanation for the failure to make efforts for applicant's members to use the mark in commerce.

(3) For a certification mark, a statement of ongoing efforts to make use of the mark in commerce by authorized users on or in connection with each of the relevant goods or services. Those efforts may include the development of certification standards, steps taken to obtain governmental approval or acquire authorized users, marketing and promoting the recognition of the certification program or of the goods or services that meet the certification standards of the applicant, training authorized users regarding the standards, or other similar activities. In the alternative, the applicant must submit a satisfactory explanation for the failure to make efforts for applicant's authorized users to use the mark in commerce.
