
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PATENT CASES
##### Subpart B - National Processing Provisions
###### The Application
####### ยง 1.58 Chemical and mathematical formulae and tables.
######## see

(2) A request that the amendment be made by incorporation by reference of the material in the replacement ASCII plain text file, in a separate paragraph of the specification (replacing any prior such paragraph, as applicable) identifying the name of the file, the date of creation, and the size of the file in bytes (ยง 1.77(b)(5));

(3) A statement that identifies the location of all deletions, replacements, or additions to the ASCII plain text file; and

(4) A statement that the replacement ASCII plain text file contains no new matter.

(h) The specification of an application with "Large Tables" as an ASCII plain text file, present on the application filing date, without an incorporation by reference of the material contained in the ASCII plain text file, must be amended to contain a separate paragraph incorporating by reference the material contained in the ASCII plain text file, in accordance with ยง 1.77(b)(5).

(i) Any read-only optical disc for "Large Tables" must be submitted in duplicate. The read-only optical disc and duplicate copy must be labeled "Copy 1" and "Copy 2," respectively. The transmittal letter that accompanies the read-only optical discs must include a statement that the two read-only optical discs are identical. In the event that the two read-only optical disc copies are not identical, the Office will use the read-only optical disc labeled "Copy 1" for further processing.

(j) Any amendment to the information on a read-only optical disc must be by way of a replacement read-only optical disc, in compliance with paragraph (g) of this section, where the replacement read-only optical disc and copy must be labeled "COPY 1 REPLACEMENT MM/DD/YYYY" (with the month, day, and year of creation indicated), and "COPY 2 REPLACEMENT MM/DD/YYYY," respectively.
