
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.6 Payment and refund of Copyright Office fees.
###### Closure.

(5)(i) An inactive deposit account will be closed no sooner than 30 days from the date of the inactivation notice if there continues to be no activity in the account or if insufficient funds remain in the deposit account after the deposit account holder overdraws the account.

(ii) The Copyright Office may permanently close a deposit account if the deposit account holder overdraws his or her account twice in any calendar year.

(iii) An undeliverable deposit account as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section will be closed after the Copyright Office has made at least three unsuccessful attempts, including at least one attempt by phone if a deposit account holder provided a telephone number, to correspond with the deposit account holder. Attempts at corresponding with the deposit account holder may be considered unsuccessful if the postal or email correspondence is returned as undeliverable.

(iv) Any funds remaining in a closed deposit account will be applied to any pending or processed service request(s) for which payment is due. If there are insufficient funds to cover the total of all fees due for any service, the service request(s) will not be processed.

(v) Any balance remaining in a closed deposit account will be refunded to the account holder in accordance with Copyright Office policies. Unredeemed refunds will be handled in accordance with Library of Congress and U.S. Treasury rules and policies.

(vi) The Copyright Office may refer any overdraft in a closed deposit account for collections.
