
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.11 Satellite carrier statements of account covering statutory licenses for secondary transmissions.
###### Contents.

(e)Each Statement of Account shall contain the following information:

(1) A clear designation of the accounting period covered by the Statement.

(2) The designation "Owner" followed by:

(i) The full legal name of the satellite carrier. If the owner is a partnership, the name of the partnership is to be followed by the name of at least one individual partner;

(ii) Any other name or names under which the owner conducts the business of the satellite carrier; and

(iii) The full mailing address of the owner. Ownership, other names under which the owner conducts the business of the satellite carrier, and the owner's mailing address shall reflect facts existing on the last day of the accounting period covered by the Statement of Account.

(3) The designation "Primary Transmitters," followed by the call signs, broadcast channel numbers, station locations (city and state of license), and a notation whether that primary transmitter is a "non-network station" or "network station" transmitted to any or all of the subscribers of the satellite carrier during any portion of the period covered by the Statement of Account.

(4) The designation "non-network station," followed by:

(i) The call sign of each non-network station signal carried for each month of the period covered by the Statement, and

(ii) The total number of subscribers to each non-network station for each month of the period covered by the Statement. This number is the number of subscribers to each non-network station receiving the retransmission on the last day of each month.

(5) The designation "Network Stations," followed by:

(i) The call sign of each network station carried for each month of the period covered by the Statement, and

(ii) The total number of subscribers to each network station for each month of the period covered by the Statement. This number is the number of subscribers to each network station receiving the retransmission on the last day of each month.

(6) The total number of subscribers to each non-network station for the six-month period covered by the Statement multiplied by the statutory royalty rate prescribed in ยง 386.2 of this chapter.

(7) The total number of subscribers to each network station for the six-month period covered by the Statement multiplied by the statutory royalty rate prescribed in ยง 386.2 of this chapter.

(8) The name, address, business title, and telephone number of the individual or individuals to be contacted for information or questions concerning the content of the Statement of Account.

(9) A legally binding signature, including an electronic signature as defined in 15 U.S.C. 7006, of:

(i) The owner of the satellite carrier or a duly authorized agent of the owner, if the owner is not a partnership or a corporation; or

(ii) A partner, if the owner is a partnership; or

(iii) An officer of the corporation, if the owner is a corporation. The signature shall be accompanied by:

(A) The printed or typewritten name of the person signing the Statement of Account;

(B) The date of signature;

(C) If the owner of the satellite carrier is a partnership or a corporation, by the title or official position held in the partnership or corporation by the person signing the Statement of Account;

(D) A certification of the capacity of the person signing; and

(E) The following statement:
