
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.18 Notice of intention to obtain a compulsory license for making and distributing phonorecords of nondramatic musical works.
###### General.

(a)(1) A "Notice of Intention" is a Notice identified in section 115(b) of title 17 of the United States Code. If the eligibility requirements of 17 U.S.C. 115(a) are satisfied, then, subject to 17 U.S.C. 115(b), a person may serve on a copyright owner or file with the Copyright Office, as applicable, a Notice of Intention and thereby obtain a compulsory license pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 115.

(2)(i) To obtain a compulsory license to make and distribute phonorecords of a musical work other than by means of digital phonorecord delivery, a Notice must be served on the copyright owner or, if the registration or other public records of the Copyright Office do not identify the copyright owner and include an address at which Notice can be served, filed with the Copyright Office, before, or not later than 30 calendar days after, making, and before distributing, any phonorecord of the work.

(ii) Prior to the license availability date, as defined in 17 U.S.C. 115(e), to obtain a compulsory license to make and distribute phonorecords of a musical work by means of digital phonorecord delivery, a Notice must be served on the copyright owner, before, or not later than 30 calendar days after, first making any such digital phonorecord delivery. On and after the license availability date, as defined in 17 U.S.C. 115(e), to obtain such a compulsory license, the procedure described in 17 U.S.C. 115(d)(2) must be followed. As of October 11, 2018, the Copyright Office does not accept Notices that pertain to digital phonorecord deliveries, regardless of whether such a Notice also pertains to phonorecords that are not digital phonorecord deliveries.

(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, a record company, as defined in 17 U.S.C. 115(e), may, on or after the license availability date, as defined in 17 U.S.C. 115(e), obtain an individual download license, as described in 17 U.S.C. 115(b)(3) and defined in 17 U.S.C. 115(e), by serving a Notice on the copyright owner, before, or not later than 30 calendar days after, first making any digital phonorecord delivery in the form of a permanent download.

(3) For the purposes of this section, a "digital phonorecord delivery" means each individual delivery of a phonorecord by digital transmission of a sound recording that results in a specifically identifiable reproduction by or for any transmission recipient of a phonorecord of that sound recording, regardless of whether the digital transmission is also a public performance of the sound recording or any musical work embodied therein. The reproduction of the phonorecord must be sufficiently permanent or stable to permit it to be perceived, reproduced, or otherwise communicated for a period of more than transitory duration. Such a phonorecord may be permanent or it may be made available to the transmission recipient for a limited period of time or for a specified number of performances. A digital phonorecord delivery includes all phonorecords that are made for the purpose of making the digital phonorecord delivery. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a permanent download, a limited download, or an interactive stream, as defined in 17 U.S.C. 115(e), is a digital phonorecord delivery. A digital phonorecord delivery does not include the digital transmission of sounds accompanying a motion picture or other audiovisual work as defined in 17 U.S.C. 101.

(4) As eligible under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a Notice of Intention shall be served or filed for nondramatic musical works embodied, or intended to be embodied, in phonorecords made under the compulsory license. For purposes of this section and subject to paragraphs (a)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section, a Notice filed with the Copyright Office which lists multiple works shall be considered a single Notice and fees shall be paid in accordance with the fee schedule set forth in ยง 201.3(e)(1) if filed in the Copyright Office under paragraph (f)(2) or (3) of this section. Payment of the applicable fees for a Notice submitted electronically under this paragraph shall be made through a deposit account established under ยง 201.6(b).

(i) Except as provided for in paragraph (a)(7), a Notice of Intention served on a copyright owner or agent of a copyright owner may designate any number of nondramatic musical works provided that the information required under paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section does not vary and that the copyright owner of each designated work is the same, or in the case of any work having more than one copyright owner, that any one of the copyright owners is the same and is the copyright owner served.

(ii) A Notice of Intention filed in the Copyright Office in paper form may designate any number of nondramatic musical works provided that the information required under paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section does not vary, and that the copyright owner of each designated work (or, in the case of works having more than one copyright owner, any one of the copyright owners) is the same and the registration records or other public records of the Copyright Office do not identify the copyright owner(s) of such work(s) and include an address for any such owner(s) at which notice can be served. For purposes of this subparagraph, in the case of works having more than one copyright owner, a single Notice must identify an actual person or entity as the common copyright owner; the common copyright owner may not be identified as "unknown." However, a single Notice may include multiple works for which no copyright owners can be identified for any of the listed works.

(iii) A Notice of Intention filed in the Copyright Office through its electronic filing system may designate multiple nondramatic musical works, regardless of whether the copyright owner of each designated work (or, in the case of any work having more than one copyright owner, any one of the copyright owners) is the same, provided that the information required under paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section does not vary, and that for any designated work, the records of the Copyright Office do not include an address at which notice can be served.

(5) For the purposes of this section, the term "copyright owner," in the case of any work having more than one copyright owner, means any one of the co-owners.

(6) For the purposes of this section, service of a Notice of Intention on a copyright owner may be accomplished by means of service of the Notice on either the copyright owner or an agent of the copyright owner with authority to receive the Notice. In the case where the work has more than one copyright owner, the service of the Notice on any one of the co-owners of the nondramatic musical work or upon an authorized agent of one of the co-owners identified in the Notice of Intention shall be sufficient with respect to all co-owners. A single Notice may designate works not owned by the same copyright owner in the case where the Notice is served on a common agent of multiple copyright owners, and where each of the works designated in the Notice is owned by any of the copyright owners who have authorized that agent to receive Notices.

(7) For purposes of this section, a copyright owner or an agent of a copyright owner with authority to receive Notices of Intention may make public a written policy that it will accept Notices of Intention to make and distribute phonorecords pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 115 which include less than all of the information required by this section, in a form different than required by this section, or delivered by means (including electronic transmission) other than those required by this section. Any Notice provided in accordance with such policy shall not be rendered invalid for failing to comply with the specific requirements of this section.

(8) For the purposes of this section, a digital phonorecord delivery shall be treated as a type of phonorecord configuration, and a digital phonorecord delivery shall be treated as a phonorecord manufactured, made, and distributed on the date the phonorecord is digitally transmitted.
