
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.18 Notice of intention to obtain a compulsory license for making and distributing phonorecords of nondramatic musical works.
###### Filing date and legal sufficiency of Notices.

(g)The Copyright Office will notify a prospective licensee when a Notice was not accompanied by payment of the required fee. Notices shall be deemed filed as of the date the Office receives both the Notice and the fee, if applicable. If the prospective licensee fails to remit the required fee, the Notice will be deemed not to have been filed with the Office. However, the Copyright Office does not review Notices for legal sufficiency or interpret the content of any Notice filed with the Copyright Office under this section. Furthermore, the Copyright Office does not screen Notices for errors or discrepancies and it does not generally correspond with a prospective licensee about the sufficiency of a Notice. If any issue (other than an issue related to fees) arises as to whether a Notice filed in the Copyright Office is sufficient as a matter of law under this section, that issue shall be determined not by the Copyright Office, but shall be subject to a determination of legal sufficiency by a court of competent jurisdiction. Prospective licensees are therefore cautioned to review and scrutinize Notices to assure their legal sufficiency before filing them in the Copyright Office. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Copyright Office will examine Notices to ensure that they do not pertain to digital phonorecord deliveries. Any Notice submitted to the Office that does pertain to digital phonorecord deliveries, regardless of whether such a Notice also pertains to phonorecords that are not digital phonorecord deliveries, will be rejected. The Office's decision to accept or reject such a Notice is without prejudice to any party claiming that the Notice does or does not pertain to digital phonorecord deliveries, including before a court of competent jurisdiction.
