
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.25 Visual Arts Registry.
###### Statements by the owner of the building.

(3)Statements of owners of a building which incorporates a work of visual art should be filed in a document containing the heading: "Registry of Visual Art Incorporated in a Building-Building Owner's Statement." The statement should contain the following information:

(i) Identification of the ownership of the building, the name of a person who represents the owner, and a telephone number, if publicly listed.

(ii) Identification of the building, including the building's name and address. This identification may additionally include 8 x 10 photographs of the building and of the works of visual art which are incorporated in the building.

(iii) Identification of the work or works of visual art incorporated in the building, including the works' title(s), if known, and the dimensions and physical description of the work(s). This identification may include one or more 8 x 10 photographs of the work(s) on high quality photographic paper; the images should be clear and in focus.

(iv) Identification of the artist(s) who have works incorporated in the building, including the current address of each artist, if known.

(v) Photocopy of contracts, if any, between the artist and owners of the building regarding the rights of attribution and integrity.

(vi) Statement as to the measures taken by the owner to notify the artist(s) of the removal or pending removal of the work of visual art, and photocopies of any accompanying documents.
