
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PATENT CASES
##### Subpart B - National Processing Provisions
###### The Drawings
####### ยง 1.84 Standards for drawings.
######## Color.

(2)Color drawings are permitted in design applications. Where a design application contains color drawings, the application must include the number of sets of color drawings required by paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section and the specification must contain the reference required by paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. On rare occasions, color drawings may be necessary as the only practical medium by which to disclose the subject matter sought to be patented in a utility patent application. The color drawings must be of sufficient quality such that all details in the drawings are reproducible in black and white in the printed patent. Color drawings are not permitted in international applications (see PCT Rule 11.13). The Office will accept color drawings in utility patent applications only after granting a petition filed under this paragraph explaining why the color drawings are necessary. Any such petition must include the following:

(i) The fee set forth in ยง 1.17(h);

(ii) One (1) set of color drawings if submitted via the USPTO patent electronic filing system or three (3) sets of color drawings if not submitted via the USPTO patent electronic filing system; and

(iii) An amendment to the specification to insert (unless the specification contains or has been previously amended to contain) the following language as the first paragraph of the brief description of the drawings:
