
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.34 Procedures for filing Correction Notices of Intent to Enforce a Copyright Restored under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act.
###### Requirements for Correction Notice of Intent to Enforce a Copyright Restored under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act.

(d)(1) A correction for a Notice of Intent to Enforce should be clearly designated as a "Correction Notice of Intent to Enforce" or "Correction NIE."

(2) Correction Notices of Intent to Enforce should be addressed to Attn: URAA/GATT, NIE and Registrations and mailed to the address specified in ยง 201.1.

(3) A Correction NIE shall contain the following information:

(i) The volume and document number of the previous NIE which is to be corrected;

(ii) The title of the work as it appears on the previous NIE, including alternative titles, if they appear;

(iii) The English translation of the title, if any, as it appears on the previous NIE;

(iv) A statement of the erroneous information as it appears on the previous NIE;

(v) A statement of the correct information as it should have appeared and an optional explanation of its correction; or

(vi) A statement of the information to be added. This includes optional information such as:

(A) Type of work;

(B) Rights owned by the party on whose behalf the Correction Notice is filed;

(C) Name of author;

(D) Source country;

(E) Year of publication;

(F) Alternative titles;

(G) An optional explanation of the added information.

(vii) The name and address:

(A) To which correspondence concerning the document should be sent; and

(B) To which the acknowledgment of the recordation of the Correction NIE should be mailed; and

(viii) A certification. The certification shall consist of:

(A) A statement that, for each of the works named above, the person signing the Correction NIE is the copyright owner, or the owner of an exclusive right, or the owner's authorized agent, and that the information is correct to the best of that person's knowledge;

(B) The typed or printed name of the person whose signature appears;

(C) The signature and date of signature; and

(D) The telephone and fax number at which the owner, rightholder, or agent thereof can be reached.

(4) A Correction NIE may cover multiple works in multiple NIE documents for one fee provided that: each work is identified by title; all the works are by the same author; all the works are owned by the same copyright owner or owner of an exclusive right. In the case of Correction NIEs, the notice must separately designate each title to be corrected, noting the incorrect information as it appeared on the previously filed NIE, as well as the corrected information. A single notice covering multiple titles need bear only a single certification.

(5) Copies, phonorecords or supporting documents cannot be made part of the record of a Correction NIE and should not be submitted with the document.
