
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.36 Notices of contact information for transmitting entities publicly performing pre-1972 sound recordings.
###### e.g.,

(1) The full legal name, email address, and physical street address of the transmitting entity to which rights owners should send notifications of claimed violations of 17 U.S.C. 1401(a). A post office box may not be substituted for the street address of a transmitting entity. Related or affiliated transmitting entities that are separate legal entities (corporate parents and subsidiaries) are considered separate transmitting entities, and each must file its own separate notice of contact information.

(2) The website(s) and/or application(s) through which the transmitting entity publicly performs pre-1972 sound recordings by means of digital audio transmission.

(3) A certification that the transmitting entity was publicly performing pre-1972 sound recordings by means of digital audio transmission as of October 11, 2018.

(4) A certification that the individual submitting the notice has appropriate authority to submit the notice and that all information submitted to the Office is true, accurate, and complete to the best of the individual's knowledge, information, and belief, and is made in good faith.

(5) The transmitting entity may opt to include alternate names for which the transmitting entity seeks application of 17 U.S.C. 1401(f)(5)(B)(iii), such as names that the public would be likely to use to search for the transmitting entity in the Copyright Office's online directory of transmitting entities publicly performing pre-1972 sound recordings by means of digital audio transmission, including names under which the transmitting entity is doing business and other commonly used names. Separate legal entities are not considered alternate names.
