
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.37 Noncommercial use of pre-1972 sound recordings.
###### https://isrc.soundexchange.com/#!/search

(v) Searching SoundExchange's repertoire database through the SoundExchange ISRC lookup tool ();

(vi) Searching at least one major seller of physical product, namely Amazon.com, and if the pre-1972 sound recording is of classical music or jazz, searching a smaller online music store that specializes in product relative to that niche genre, namely: ArkivJazz, ArkivMusic, Classical Archives, or Presto; in either case, to determine whether the pre-1972 sound recording is being offered for sale in download form or as a new (not resale) physical product; and

(vii) For pre-1972 ethnographic sound recordings of Alaska Native or American Indian tribes, searching, if such contact information is known to the user, by contacting the relevant Alaska Native or American Indian tribe and the holding institution of the sound recording (such as a library or archive) to gather information to determine whether the sound recording is being commercially exploited. If this contact information is not previously known to the prospective user, the user should use the information provided by the U.S. Department of the Interior's Bureau of Indian Affairs' Tribal Leaders directory, which provides contact information for each federally recognized tribe.

(2) A search under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must include searching the title of the pre-1972 sound recording and its featured artist(s). If the user knows any of the following attributes of the sound recording, and the source being searched has the capability to search any of these attributes, the search must also include searching: alternate artist name(s), alternate title(s), album title, and the International Standard Recording Code ("ISRC"). A user is encouraged, but not required, to search additional known attributes, such as the label or version. A user searching using a search engine should draw reasonable inferences from the search results, including following those links whose name or accompanying text suggest that commercial exploitation might be found there, and reading additional pages of results until two consecutive pages return no such suggestive links. A user need not read every web page returned in a search result.

(3) A search under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be conducted no later than 90 days of the user (or her authorized agent) filing a notice of noncommercial use under paragraph (d)(1) of this section to be sufficient for purposes of the safe harbor in 17 U.S.C. 1401(c)(4).

(4) For purposes of the safe harbor in 17 U.S.C. 1401(c)(4), a user cannot rely on:

(i) A search conducted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section by a third party who is not the user's authorized agent; or

(ii) A notice of noncommercial use filed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section by a third party (who is not the user's authorized agent).
