
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.37 Noncommercial use of pre-1972 sound recordings.
###### i.e.,

(v) A description of the proposed noncommercial use, including a summary of the project and its purpose, how the pre-1972 sound recording will be used in the project, the start and end dates of the use, and where the proposed use will occur (the U.S.-based territory of the use). The user may include additional optional information detailing the proposed use, such as the tentative title of the project, the playing time of the pre-1972 sound recording to be used as well as total playing time of the project, a description of corresponding visuals in the case of audiovisual uses, and whether and how the user will credit the sound recording title, featured artist, and/or rights owner in connection with the project.

(vi) A certification that the user searched but did not find the pre-1972 sound recording in a search conducted under paragraph (c) of this section, or else conducted a good faith, reasonable search for, but did not find, the sound recording in the Copyright Office's database of indexed schedules listing right owners' pre-1972 sound recordings, or on services offering a comprehensive set of sound recordings for sale or streaming.

(vii) A certification that the individual submitting the notice of noncommercial use has appropriate authority to submit the notice, that the user desiring to make noncommercial use of the pre-1972 sound recording (or the user's authorized agent) conducted a search under paragraph (c) of this section or else conducted a good faith, reasonable search under 17 U.S.C. 1401(c)(4), within the last 90 days without finding commercial exploitation of the sound recording, and that all information submitted to the Office is true, accurate, and complete to the best of the individual's knowledge, information, and belief, and is made in good faith.

(3) Noncommercial use of a pre-1972 recording under this section is limited to use within the United States.

(4) A notice of noncommercial use may not include proposed use for more than one pre-1972 sound recording unless all of the sound recordings include the same featured artist(s) and were released on the same pre-1972 album or other unit of publication. In the case of "greatest hits" or compilation albums, all of the sound recordings listed on a notice must also share the same record label or other rights owner information, as listed on the notice.

(5) The Copyright Office will assign each indexed notice of noncommercial use a unique identifier to identify the notice in the Office's public records.
