
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 201 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 201.37 Noncommercial use of pre-1972 sound recordings.
###### Content.

(2)An opt-out notice use shall contain the following:

(i) The user's name, rights owner's name, sound recording title, featured artist(s), an affirmative "yes" statement that the rights owner is opting out of the proposed use, and the unique identifier assigned to the notice of noncommercial use by the Copyright Office. Additional contact information for the rights owner, including an email address, may be optionally provided.

(ii) A certification that the individual submitting the opt-out notice has appropriate authority to submit the notice and that all information submitted to the Office is true, accurate, and complete to the best of the individual's knowledge, information, and belief, and is made in good faith.

(iii) Submission of an opt-out notice does not constitute agreement by the rights owner or the individual submitting the opt-out notice that the proposed use is in fact noncommercial. The submitter may choose to comment upon whether the rights owner agrees that the proposed use is noncommercial use, but failure to do so does not constitute agreement that the proposed use is in fact noncommercial.

(3) Where a pre-1972 sound recording has multiple rights owners, only one rights owner must file an opt-out notice for purposes of 17 U.S.C. 1401(c)(5).

(4) If a rights owner files a timely opt-out notice under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a user must wait one year before filing another notice of noncommercial use proposing the same or similar use of the same pre-1972 sound recording(s).
