
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 202 - PREREGISTRATION AND REGISTRATION OF CLAIMS TO COPYRIGHT
##### ยง 202.4 Group registration.
###### short online literary work

(1) The group may include up to 50 short online literary works, and the application must specify the total number of short online literary works that are included in the group. For purposes of this section, ais a work consisting of text that contains at least 50 words and no more than 17,500 words, such as a poem, short story, article, essay, column, blog entry, or social media post. The work must be published as part of a website or online platform, including online newspapers, social media websites, and social networking platforms. The group may not include computer programs, audiobooks, podcasts, or emails. Claims in any form of authorship other than "text" or claims in the selection, coordination, or arrangement of the group as a whole will not be permitted on the application.

(2) All of the works must be published within a three-calendar-month period, and the application must identify the earliest and latest date that the works were published.

(3) All the works must be created by the same individual, or jointly by the same individuals, and each creator must be named as the copyright claimant or claimants for each work in the group.

(4) The works must not be works made for hire.

(5) The applicant must provide a title for each work and a title for the group as a whole.

(6) The applicant must complete and submit the online application designated for a group of short online literary works. The application may be submitted by any of the parties listed in ยง 202.3(c)(1).

(7) The applicant must submit one complete copy of each work. The works must be assembled in an orderly form with each work in a separate digital file. The file name for each work must match the title as submitted on the application. All of the works must be submitted in one of the electronic formats approved by the Office, and must be uploaded to the electronic registration system in a .ZIP file. The file size for each uploaded .ZIP file must not exceed 500 megabytes.
