
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 202 - PREREGISTRATION AND REGISTRATION OF CLAIMS TO COPYRIGHT
##### ยง 202.4 Group registration.
###### Deposit.

(3)(i) For claims in works first published in the United States submitted with the application for "sound recordings from an album," the applicant must submit two complete phonorecords containing the best edition of each recording, and two complete copies of any associated literary, pictorial, or graphic works that are included in the group. For claims in works first published outside the United States submitted with this application, the applicant must submit one complete phonorecord of the work either as first published or of the best edition. A phonorecord will be considered complete if it satisfies the requirements set forth in ยง 202.19(b)(2). The deposit may be submitted in a digital form if the album has been distributed solely in a digital format, and if the requirements set forth in paragraph (k)(3)(iii) of this section have been met.

(ii) For claims submitted with the application for "musical works from an album," the applicant must submit one complete phonorecord of each musical work that is included in the group.

(iii) The deposit may be submitted in a digital form if the following requirements have been met. Each work must be contained in a separate electronic file. The files must be assembled in an orderly form, they must be submitted in one of the electronic formats approved by the Office, and they must be uploaded to the electronic registration system as individual electronic files (not .zip files). The file size for each uploaded file must not exceed 500 megabytes; the files may be compressed to comply with this requirement. The file name for each work must match the title as submitted on the application.
