
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 202 - PREREGISTRATION AND REGISTRATION OF CLAIMS TO COPYRIGHT
##### ยง 202.13 Secure tests.
###### Deposit requirements.

(c)Pursuant to the authority granted by 17 U.S.C. 408(c)(1), the Register of Copyrights has determined that a secure test or a group of test items prepared for use in a secure test may be registered with identifying material, and the filing and examination fees required by ยง 201.3(c) and (d), if the following conditions are met:

(1) The applicant must complete and submit a Standard Application. The application may be submitted by any of the parties listed in ยง 202.3(c)(1).

(2) In case of a secure test, the applicant must submit a redacted copy of the entire test. In the case of a group of test items prepared for use in a secure test, the applicant must submit a redacted copy of each test item. In all cases the redacted copy must contain a sufficient amount of visible content to reasonably identify the work(s). In addition, the applicant must complete and submit the secure test questionnaire that is posted on the Copyright Office's website. The questionnaire and the redacted copy must be contained in separate electronic files, and each file must be uploaded to the electronic registration system in Portable Document Format (PDF). The Copyright Office will review these materials to determine if the work(s) qualify for an examination under secure conditions. If they appear to be eligible, the Copyright Office will contact the applicant to schedule an appointment to examine an unredacted copy of the work(s). The examination may be conducted in-person or through remote access as directed by the instructions provided on the Office's website.

(3) On the appointed date, the applicant must provide the following materials to the Copyright Office:

(i) A copy of the completed application.

(ii) The appropriate examination fee, as required by ยง 201.3(d) of this chapter.

(iii) A copy of the redacted version of the work(s) that was uploaded to the electronic registration system.

(iv) A signed declaration confirming that the redacted copy specified in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section is identical to the redacted copy that was uploaded to the electronic registration system.

(v) In the case of a secure test, the applicant must provide an unredacted copy of the entire test. In the case of a group of test items prepared for use in a secure test, the applicant must provide an unredacted copy of all the test items. The applicant shall include the following information in the metadata of an unredacted electronic file:

(A) The date of the examination; and

(B) The service request number generated by the electronic registration system.

(4) The Copyright Office will examine the copies specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (v) of this section under secure conditions. The Office will retain the signed declaration and the redacted copy that was uploaded to the electronic registration system. If the examination is conducted in-person, the Office will stamp the date of the appointment on the copies and will return them to the applicant when the examination is complete.
