
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 202 - PREREGISTRATION AND REGISTRATION OF CLAIMS TO COPYRIGHT
##### § 202.18 Access to electronic works.

(a) Access to electronic works received under § 202.4(e) and § 202.19, and transferred into the Library of Congress's collections, will be available only to authorized users at Library of Congress premises in accordance with the policies listed below. Library staff may access such content off-site as part of their assigned duties via a secure connection.

(b) Access to each individual electronic work received under § 202.4(e) and § 202.19 will be limited, at any one time, to two Library of Congress authorized users via a secure server over a secure network that serves Library of Congress premises.

(c) The Library of Congress will not make electronic works received under § 202.4(e) and § 202.19 available to the public over the internet without rightsholders' permissions.

(d) "Authorized user" means Library of Congress staff, contractors, and registered researchers, and Members, staff and officers of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate for the purposes of this section.

(e) "Library of Congress premises" means all Library of Congress premises in Washington, DC, and the Library of Congress Packard Campus for Audio-Visual Conservation in Culpeper, VA.

(f) Except as provided under special relief agreements entered into pursuant to § 202.19(e) or § 202.20(d), electronic works will be transferred to the Library of Congress for its collections and made available only under the conditions specified by this section.
