
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 202 - PREREGISTRATION AND REGISTRATION OF CLAIMS TO COPYRIGHT
##### ยง 202.20 Deposit of copies and phonorecords for copyright registration.
###### General.

(i)In the following cases the deposit of one complete copy or phonorecord will suffice in lieu of two copies or phonorecords:

(A) Published three-dimensional cartographic representations of area, such as globes and relief models.

(B) Published diagrams illustrating scientific or technical works or formulating scientific or technical information in linear or other two-dimensional form, such as an architectural or engineering blueprint, or a mechanical drawing.

(C) Published greeting cards, picture postcards, and stationery.

(D) Lectures, sermons, speeches, and addresses published individually and not as a collection of the works of one or more authors.

(E) Musical compositions published solely in copies or in both copies and phonorecords, provided that one complete copy (rather than a phonorecord) is deposited.

(F) Published multimedia kits or any part thereof.

(G) Works exempted from the requirement of depositing identifying material under paragraph (c)(2)(xi)(B) of this section.

(H) Literary, dramatic, and musical works published only as embodied in phonorecords, although this category does not exempt the owner of copyright in a sound recording.

(I) Choreographic works, pantomimes, literary, dramatic, and musical works published only as embodied in motion pictures.

(J) Published works in the form of two-dimensional games, decals, fabric patches or emblems, calendars, instructions for needle work, needle work and craft kits.

(K) Works reproduced on three-dimensional containers such as boxes, cases, and cartons.

(L) Published literary monographs.

(M) Architectural works, for which the deposit must comply with the requirements set forth in ยง 202.11.
