
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PATENT CASES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### General Information and Correspondence
####### ยง 1.6 Receipt of correspondence.
######## Date of receipt and Priority Mail Express&#xAE; date of deposit.

(a)Correspondence received in the Patent and Trademark Office is stamped with the date of receipt except as follows:

(1) The Patent and Trademark Office is not open for the filing of correspondence on any day that is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday within the District of Columbia. Except for correspondence transmitted by facsimile under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or filed electronically under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, no correspondence is received in the Office on Saturdays, Sundays, or Federal holidays within the District of Columbia.

(2) Correspondence filed in accordance with ยง 1.10 will be stamped with the date of deposit as Priority Mail Express&#xAE; with the United States Postal Service.

(3) Correspondence transmitted by facsimile to the Patent and Trademark Office will be stamped with the date on which the complete transmission is received in the Patent and Trademark Office unless that date is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday within the District of Columbia, in which case the date stamped will be the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday within the District of Columbia.

(4) Correspondence may be submitted using the USPTO patent electronic filing system only in accordance with the USPTO patent electronic filing system requirements. Correspondence officially submitted to the Office by way of the USPTO patent electronic filing system will be accorded a receipt date, which is the date in Eastern Time when the correspondence is received in the Office, regardless of whether that date is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday within the District of Columbia.

(b) [Reserved]
