
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 202 - PREREGISTRATION AND REGISTRATION OF CLAIMS TO COPYRIGHT
##### Appendix B to Part 202 - "Best Edition" of Published Copyrighted Works for the Collections of the Library of Congress
###### i.e.,

a. Book-specific structured/markup format,XML-based markup formats, with included or accessible DTD/schema, XSD/XSL presentation stylesheet(s), and explicitly stated character encoding:

i. BITS-compliant (NLM Book DTD).

ii. EPUB-compliant.

iii. Other widely-used book DTD/schemas (e.g., TEI, DocBook, etc.).

b. Page-oriented rendition:

i. PDF/UA (Portable Document Format/Universal Accessibility; compliant with ISO 14289-1).

ii. PDF/A (Portable Document Format/Archival; compliant with ISO 19005).

ii. PDF (Portable Document Format; highest quality available, with features such as searchable text, embedded fonts, lossless compression, high resolution images, device-independent specification of colorspace; content tagging; includes document formats such as PDF/X).

c. Other structured markup formats:

i. XHTML or HTML, with DOCTYPE declaration and presentation stylesheet(s).

ii. XML-based document formats (widely-used and publicly-documented), with presentation style sheet(s) if applicable. Includes ODF (ISO/IEC 26300) and OOXML (ISO/IEC 29500).

iii. SGML, with included or accessible DTD.

iv. Other XML-based non-proprietary formats, with presentation stylesheet(s).

v. XML-based formats that use proprietary DTDs or schemas, with presentation stylesheet(s).

d. PDF (web-optimized with searchable text).

e. Other formats:

i. Rich text format.

ii. Plain text.

iii. Widely-used proprietary word processing formats.

iv. Other text formats not listed here.

2. Metadata Elements: If included with published version of work, descriptive data (metadata) as described below should accompany the deposited material:

a. As supported by format (e.g., standards-based formats such as ONIX, XMP, MODS, or MARCXML either embedded in or accompanying the digital item): title, creator, creation date, place of publication, publisher/producer/distributor, ISBN, contact information.

b. Include if part of published version of work: language of work, other relevant identifiers (e.g., DOI, LCCN, etc.), edition, subject descriptors, abstracts.

3. Rarity and Special Features:

a. Limited editions (including those with special features such as high resolution images.)

b. Editions with the greatest number of unique features (such as additional content, multimedia, interactive elements.)

4. Completeness:

a. For items published in a finite number of separate components, all elements published as part of the work and offered for sale or distribution must be deposited. Includes all associated external files and fonts considered integral to or necessary to view the work as published.

b. All updates, supplements, releases, and supersessions published as part of the work and offered for sale or distribution must be submitted and received in a regular and timely manner for proper maintenance of the deposit.

5. Technological Protection Measures:

a. Copies published in formats that do not contain technological measures controlling access to or use of the work.

b. Copies published with technological measures that control access to or use of the work, and for which the owner has elected to remove such technological measures.

c. Copies otherwise provided in a manner that meets the requirements of ยง 202.24(a)(5).

Editions are listed below in descending order of preference.

A. Newspapers, dissertations and theses, newspaper-formatted serials:

1. Microform.

2. Printed matter.

B. All other materials:

1. Printed matter.

2. Microform.

3. Phonorecord.
