
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 203 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Organization
###### ยง 203.1 General.

This information is furnished for the guidance of the public and in compliance with the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act ("FOIA"), 5 U.S.C. 552. The rules contained in this part should be read in conjunction with the text of FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget ("OMB Guidelines"). Requests made by individuals for records pertaining to themselves under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, are processed under part 204 of this chapter. Requests for services for which the Copyright Act of 1976, title 17 of the United States Code, requires a fee are not processed under this part, but will be processed under the applicable regulations governing that service (including ยง 201.2 of this chapter). If the Copyright Office receives a request for services for which the Copyright Act requires a fee to be charged, the Office will notify the requester of the procedure established to obtain such services, and the applicable fees under ยง 201.3 of this chapter. Section 706(b) of the Copyright Act and the regulations issued under section 706(b) are not subject to FOIA. All information relating to proceedings of the Copyright Claims Board under chapter 15 of the Copyright Act is exempt from disclosure under FOIA, except for Copyright Claims Board determinations published on the Copyright Office website and related records and information published on that website.
