
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 203 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Organization
###### ยง 203.3 Organization.

(a) The Office of the Register of Copyrights has overall responsibility for the Copyright Office and its statutory mandate, specifically: For legal interpretation of the copyright law; administering the provisions of title 17 of the U.S.C.; promulgating copyright regulations; advising Congress and other government officials on domestic and international copyright policy and other intellectual property issues; determining personnel and other resource requirements for the Office; organizing strategic and annual program planning; and preparing budget estimates for inclusion in the budget of the Library of Congress and U.S. Government.

(b) The Office of the Director of Operations is headed by the Assistant Register and Director of Operations ("ARDO"), who advises the Register on core business functions and coordinates and directs the day-to-day operations of the Copyright Office. This Office supervises human capital, finances, the administration of certain statutory licenses, mandatory acquisitions and deposits, product management, and materials control and analysis functions. It interacts with other senior management offices that report to the Register and frequently coordinates and assesses institutional projects. This Office has five divisions: Acquisitions and Deposits; Administrative Services; Financial Management; Materials Control and Analysis; and Product Management.

(1) Acquisitions and Deposits ("A&D") administers the mandatory deposit requirements of the Copyright Act, acting as an intermediary between copyright owners of certain published works and the acquisitions staff in the Library of Congress (17 U.S.C. 407). It creates and updates records for copies received by the Copyright Office, demands particular works or particular formats of works as necessary, and administers deposit agreements between the Library and copyright owners.

(2) The Administrative Services Division ("ASD") manages human capital and physical space issues for the Copyright Office, and serves as the liaison with other components of the Library for those matters.

(3) The Financial Management Division ("FMD") oversees fiscal, financial, and budgetary activities for the Copyright Office. It contains the Licensing Section, which administers certain statutory licenses set forth in the Copyright Act. The Licensing Section collects royalty payments and examines statements of account for the cable statutory license (17 U.S.C. 111), the satellite statutory license for retransmission of distant television broadcast stations (17 U.S.C. 119), and the statutory license for digital audio recording technology (17 U.S.C. chapter 10). The Licensing Section also accepts and records certain documents associated with the use of the mechanical statutory license for making and distributing phonorecords of nondramatic musical works (17 U.S.C. 115) and the statutory licenses for publicly performing sound recordings by means of digital audio transmission (17 U.S.C. 112, 114).

(4) The Materials Control and Analysis Division ("MCA") processes incoming mail, creates initial records, and dispatches electronic and hardcopy materials and deposits to the appropriate service areas. It operates the Copyright Office's central print room and outgoing mail functions.

(5) The Product Management Division ("PMD") advises on business process integration and improvements in connection with technology initiatives affecting the Copyright Office. It coordinates business activities, including resource planning, stakeholder engagement activities, and project management. The PMD oversees the Office's data management, performance statistics, and business intelligence capabilities.

(c) The Office of the General Counsel is headed by the General Counsel and Associate Register of Copyrights, who is an expert copyright attorney and one of four legal advisors to the Register. This Office assists the Register in carrying out critical work of the Copyright Office regarding the legal interpretation of the copyright law. The General Counsel liaises with the Department of Justice, other federal departments, and the legal community on a wide range of copyright matters including litigation and the administration of title 17 of the U.S.C. The General Counsel has primary responsibility for the formulation and promulgation of regulations and the adoption of legal positions governing policy matters and the practices of the Copyright Office. The Office of the General Counsel also supervises the Copyright Claims Board ("CCB") as it discharges its statutory mandate.

(1) The CCB is a voluntary, alternative forum to Federal court for parties to seek resolution of copyright disputes that have a low economic value. The CCB is headed by three Copyright Claims Officers who ensure that claims are properly asserted and appropriate for resolution; manage proceedings; render determinations and award monetary relief; provide public information; certify and maintain CCB records, including making proceeding records publicly available; and other related duties.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) The Office of Policy and International Affairs is headed by the Associate Register of Copyrights and Director of Policy and International Affairs, who is an expert copyright attorney and one of four legal advisors to the Register. This Office assists the Register with critical policy functions of the Copyright Office, including domestic and international policy analyses, legislative support, and trade negotiations. Policy and International Affairs represents the Copyright Office at meetings of government officials concerned with the international aspects of intellectual property protection, and provides regular support to Congress and its committees on statutory amendments and construction.
