
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 203 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Procedures
###### ยง 203.7 Timing of responses to requests.
####### Multitrack processing.

(b)The Office will designate a specific track for requests that are granted expedited processing, in accordance with the standards set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. The Office may also designate additional processing tracks that distinguish between simple and more complex requests based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. Among the factors the Office may consider are the number of records requested, the number of pages involved in processing the request, and the need for consultations or referrals. The Office will advise a requester of the track into which their request falls and, when appropriate, will offer the requester an opportunity to narrow or modify their request so that it can be placed in a different processing track. (1)(i) Whenever the Office cannot meet the statutory time limit for processing a request because of "unusual circumstances," as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Office will notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances and the estimated date of determination, and alert requesters to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) to provide dispute resolution services. Where an extension of time greater than 10 days is required, the Office will give the requester the opportunity to:

(A) Limit the scope of the request so that it may be processed within 20 working days; or

(B) Arrange with the Office an alternative time frame for processing the request or a modified request.

(ii) The Office will make available the FOIA Public Liaison to assist the requester in modifying the request.

(2) As used in this paragraph (c), "unusual circumstances" means, only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of the particular request:

(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from establishments that are physically separate from the Office;

(ii) The need to search for, collect, and examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or,

(iii) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the Copyright Office which have a substantial subject matter interest therein.
