
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 204 - PRIVACY ACT: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### ยง 204.8 Appeal of refusal to correct or amend an individual's record.

(a) An individual who disagrees with a refusal of the Copyright Office to amend his or her record may request a review of the denial. The individual should submit a written appeal to the General Counsel of the United States Copyright Office at the address specified in ยง 201.1(c)(1) of this chapter. Appeals, and the envelopes containing them, should be plainly marked "Privacy Act Appeal." Failure to so mark the appeal may delay the General Counsel's response. An appeal should contain a copy of the request for amendment or correction and a copy of the record alleged to be untimely, inaccurate, incomplete, or irrelevant.

(b) The General Counsel will issue a written decision granting or denying the appeal within 30 working days after receipt of the appeal unless, after showing good cause, the General Counsel extends the 30-day period. If the appeal is granted, the requested amendment or correction will be made promptly. If the appeal is denied, in whole or in part, the General Counsel's decision will set forth reasons for the denial. Additionally, the decision will advise the requester that he or she has the right to file with the Copyright Office a concise statement of his or her reasons for disagreeing with the refusal to amend the record and that such statement will be attached to the requester's record and included in any future disclosure of such record. If the requester is dissatisfied with the agency's final determination, the individual may bring a civil action against the Office in the appropriate United States district court.
