
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 210 - COMPULSORY LICENSE FOR MAKING AND DISTRIBUTING PHYSICAL AND DIGITAL PHONORECORDS OF NONDRAMATIC MUSICAL WORKS
##### Subpart A - Royalties and Statements of Account Under Non-Blanket Compulsory License
###### ยง 210.7 Annual statements of account.
####### General content.

(c)An Annual Statement of Account shall be clearly and prominently identified as an "Annual Statement of Account Under Compulsory License for Making and Distributing Phonorecords," and shall include a clear statement of the following information:

(1) The fiscal year covered by the Annual Statement of Account.

(2) The full legal name of the compulsory licensee, together with all fictitious or assumed names used by such person or entity for the purpose of conducting the business of making and distributing phonorecords.

(3) If the compulsory licensee is a business organization, the name and title of the chief executive officer, managing partner, sole proprietor or other person similarly responsible for the management of such entity.

(4) The full address, including a specific number and street name or rural route, or the place of business of the compulsory licensee (a post office box or similar designation will not be sufficient for this purpose except where it is the only address that can be used in that geographic location).

(5) For each nondramatic musical work that is owned by the same copyright owner being served with the Annual Statement and that is embodied in phonorecords covered by the compulsory license, a detailed statement of all of the information called for in paragraph (d) of this section.

(6) The total royalty payable for the fiscal year covered by the Annual Statement computed in accordance with the requirements of ยง 210.6, and, in the case of offerings for which royalties are calculated pursuant to applicable provisions of part 385 of this title, or any other provisions, requiring computation of applicable royalties on a percentage-rate basis, calculations showing in detail how the royalty was computed (for these purposes, the applicable royalty as specified in applicable provisions of part 385 of this title, or any other provisions, requiring computation of applicable royalties on a cents-per-unit basis shall be payable for every phonorecord "distributed" during the fiscal year covered by the Annual Statement).

(7) The total sum paid under Monthly Statements of Account by the compulsory licensee to the copyright owner being served with the Annual Statement during the fiscal year covered by the Annual Statement.

(8) In any case where the compulsory license falls within the provisions of ยง 210.5, a clear description of the action or proceeding involved, including the date of the final judgment or definitive finding described in that section.

(9) Any late fees, if applicable, included in any payment associated with the Annual Statement.
