
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 210 - COMPULSORY LICENSE FOR MAKING AND DISTRIBUTING PHYSICAL AND DIGITAL PHONORECORDS OF NONDRAMATIC MUSICAL WORKS
##### Subpart B - Blanket Compulsory License for Digital Uses, Mechanical Licensing Collective, and Digital Licensee Coordinator
###### ยง 210.27 Reports of usage and payment for blanket licensees.
####### Content of annual reports of usage.

(f)An annual report of usage, covering the full fiscal year of the blanket licensee, shall be clearly and prominently identified as an "Annual Report of Usage Under Compulsory Blanket License for Making and Distributing Phonorecords," and shall include a clear statement of the following information:

(1) The fiscal year covered by the annual report of usage.

(2) The full legal name of the blanket licensee and, if different, the trade or consumer-facing brand name(s) of the service(s), including any specific offering(s), through which the blanket licensee engages in covered activities. If the blanket licensee has a unique DDEX identifier number, it must also be provided.

(3) The full address, including a specific number and street name or rural route, of the place of business of the blanket licensee. A post office box or similar designation will not be sufficient except where it is the only address that can be used in that geographic location.

(4) The following information, which may, as appropriate, be calculated using estimates permitted under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, cumulative for the applicable annual reporting period, for each month for each applicable activity or offering including as may be defined in part 385 of this title, and broken down by month and by each such applicable activity or offering:

(i) The total royalty payable by the blanket licensee under the blanket license, computed in accordance with the requirements of this section and part 385 of this title. Where the blanket licensee will receive an invoice under paragraph (k)(4) of this section with respect to an adjustment made in connection with the annual report of usage as described in paragraph (k)(1) of this section, the reporting of such total royalty payable may exclude non-invoiced amounts related to such adjustment.

(ii) The total sum paid to the mechanical licensing collective under the blanket license, including the amount of any adjustment delivered contemporaneously with the annual report of usage.

(iii) The total adjustment(s) made by any report of adjustment adjusting any monthly report of usage covered by the applicable annual reporting period, including any adjustment made in connection with the annual report of usage as described in paragraph (k)(1) of this section. Where the blanket licensee will receive an invoice under paragraph (k)(4) of this section with respect to an adjustment made in connection with the annual report of usage as described in paragraph (k)(1) of this section, the reporting of such total adjustment(s) may exclude non-invoiced amounts related to such adjustment.

(iv) The total number of payable units, including, as applicable, permanent downloads, plays, and constructive plays, for each sound recording used, whether pursuant to a blanket license, voluntary license, or individual download license.

(v) To the extent applicable to the calculation of royalties owed by the blanket licensee under the blanket license:

(A) Total service provider revenue, as may be defined in part 385 of this title.

(B) Total costs of content, as may be defined in part 385 of this title.

(C) Total deductions of performance royalties, as may be defined in and permitted by part 385 of this title.

(D) Total subscribers, as may be defined in part 385 of this title.

(5) The amount of late fees, if applicable, included in any payment associated with the annual report of usage.
