
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - Copyright Office and Procedures
#### PART 211 - MASK WORK PROTECTION
##### § 211.4 Registration of claims of protection in mask works.
###### Application for registration.

(b)(1) For purposes of registration of mask work claims, the Register of Copyrights has designated "Form MW" to be used for all applications. Copies of the form are available free from the Copyright Office website or upon request to the Copyright Information Section, U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress, Washington, DC 20559- 6000.

(2) An application for registration of a mask work claim may be submitted by the owner of the mask work, or the duly authorized agent of any such owner.

(i) The owner of a mask work includes a party that has obtained the transfer of all of the exclusive rights in the work, but does not include the transferee of less than all of the exclusive rights, or the licensee of all or less than all of these rights.

(ii) For purposes of eligibility to claim mask work protection pursuant to section 902(a)(1)(A) of 17 U.S.C., the owner of the mask work must be either the initial owner or a person who has obtained by transfer the totality of rights in the mask work under the Act.

(3) An application for registration shall be submitted on Form MW prescribed by the Register under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and shall be accompanied by the registration fee and deposit required under 17 U.S.C. 908 and §§ 211.3 and 211.5 of these regulations. The application shall contain the information required by the form and its accompanying instructions, and shall include a certification. The certification shall consist of:

(i) A declaration that the applicant is authorized to submit the application and that the statements made are correct to the best of that person's knowledge; and

(ii) The typed, printed, or handwritten signature of the applicant, accompanied by the typed or printed name of that person if the signature is handwritten.
