
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter B - Copyright Claims Board and Procedures
#### PART 223 - OPT-OUT PROVISIONS
##### ยง 223.2 Libraries and archives opt-out procedures.
###### Opt-out notification.

(a)(1) A library or archives that wishes to preemptively opt out of participating in Copyright Claims Board ("Board") proceedings under 17 U.S.C. 1506(aa) may do so by submitting written notification to the Board. The notification shall include a signed certification under penalty of perjury that the library or archives qualifies for the limitations on exclusive rights under 17 U.S.C. 108 and the signatory is authorized to submit the form on the library's or archives' behalf.

(2) The submission described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall list the name and physical address of each library or archives to which the preemptive opt out applies and shall be signed by a person with the authority described in paragraph (c) of this section. The library or archives must also provide a point of contact for future correspondence, including phone number, mailing address, email address, and the website for the library or archives, if available, and shall notify the Board if this information changes.

(3) The Board will accept the facts stated in the submission described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, unless they are implausible or conflict with sources of information that are known to the Board or the general public.

(4) If a Federal court determines that an entity described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not qualify for the limitations on exclusive rights under 17 U.S.C. 108, that entity must inform the Board of that determination and submit a copy of the relevant order or opinion, if any, within 14 days after the determination is issued.

(5) An opt-out under this section extends to a library's or archives' employee acting within the scope of their employment, but does not apply to employees acting outside the scope of their employment.

(6) For the purposes of this section, the date that the Board posts the opt-out information on its website as described in paragraph (b) in this section, after receipt, review, and processing of the notification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, will be the effective date of a preemptive opt-out election, except as noted in paragraph (a)(9) of this section. A preemptive opt-out election would not compel dismissal of a claim that the Board has found compliant and has instructed the claimant to serve prior to the preemptive opt-out election's effective date. A respondent who wishes to opt out of such a claim should follow the directions provided in the served notice of proceeding.

(7) A library or archives may rescind its preemptive opt-out election under this section, such that it may participate in Board proceedings, by providing written notification to the Board in accordance with such instructions as are provided on the Board's website. A library or archives may submit no more than one such rescission notification per calendar year.

(8) The notification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be submitted to the Board in accordance with such instructions as are provided on the Board's website.

(9) A blanket opt-out filed by a library or archives in accordance with this section before April 8, 2022 will become effective on that date.
