
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter B - Copyright Claims Board and Procedures
#### PART 223 - OPT-OUT PROVISIONS
##### ยง 223.2 Libraries and archives opt-out procedures.
###### Review of eligibility.

(b)(1) The Board will maintain on its website a public list of libraries and archives that have preemptively opted out of Board proceedings pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. If the Register determines pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section that an entity does not qualify for the preemptive opt-out provision, the Office will communicate to the point of contact described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section that it does not intend to add the entity to the public list, or that it intends to remove the entity from that list, and will allow the entity to provide evidence supporting its qualification for the exemption within 30 days. If the entity fails to respond, or if, after reviewing the entity's response, the Register determines that the entity does not qualify for the limitations on exclusive rights under section 108 of title 17, the entity will not be added to, or will be removed from, the public list. If the Register determines that the entity qualifies for the limitations on exclusive rights under 17 U.S.C. 108, the entity will be added to, or remain on, the libraries and archives preemptive opt-out list. This provision does not limit the Office's ability to request additional information from the point of contact listed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Any determination by the Register regarding an entity's qualifying status for the limitations on exclusive rights under 17 U.S.C. 108 is solely for the purpose of determining whether the entity qualifies for the preemptive opt out under 17 U.S.C. 1506(aa) and does not constitute a legal conclusion for any other purpose.

(2) A claimant seeking to assert a claim under this section against a library or archives, or an employee thereof acting within the scope of their employment, that it believes is improperly included on the public list described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may file the claim with the Board pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 1506(e) and applicable regulations. The claimant must include in its statement of material facts allegations sufficient to support that belief. If the Board concludes, as part of its review of the claim pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 1506(f), that the claimant has alleged facts sufficient to support the conclusion that the library or archives is ineligible for the preemptive opt-out, and the Register agrees, the library or archives will be given an opportunity to provide evidence supporting its qualification for the exemption pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the Register concludes that evidence submitted by the library or archives supports its qualification for the exemption, the library or archives will remain on the list and the associated allegations by the claimant will be stricken. After these allegations are stricken, if the claim includes other respondents and is otherwise complaint, the claimant will be instructed to proceed with service of the claim against the remaining respondents. Alternatively, if the Register concludes that the library or archives has not provided evidence to support its qualification for the exemption, the library or archives will be removed from the blanket opt-out list. The claim will then be reviewed for compliance and, if found to be compliant, the claimant will be instructed to proceed with service of the claim.

(3) Any determination made under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall constitute final agency action under 5 U.S.C. 704.
