
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter II - U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress
### Subchapter B - Copyright Claims Board and Procedures
#### PART 226 - SMALLER CLAIMS
##### ยง 226.4 Nature of a smaller claims proceeding.
###### Submission of materials before merits conference.

(2)No later than 14 days before the merits conference, each party-

(i) Shall file with the presiding Officer evidence it wishes to be considered for the presiding Officer to decide the case as well as any evidence requested by the presiding Officer. All such evidence must have been served on the other parties to the proceeding before such filing, unless the evidence was received from the other side;

(ii) May submit a written statement that set forth its positions as to the claims, defenses, and any counterclaims, along with any damages sought and the types of damages sought. Such written statement shall follow the procedures set forth in ยง 220.5(b) of this subchapter and shall be limited to seven pages. No written responses shall be permitted; and

(iii) May submit witness statements that comply with ยง 222.15(b)(2) of this subchapter. No later than seven days before the merits conference, an opposing party may request that the witness whose statement was submitted appear at the merits conference so that the party may ask the witness questions relating the witness's testimony. The failure of a witness to appear in response to such a request shall not preclude the presiding Officer from accepting the statement, but the presiding Officer may take the inability to question the witness into account when considering the weight of the witness's testimony.
