
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 303 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
##### ยง 303.5 Electronic filing system (eCRB).
###### Technical difficulties.

(m)(1) A filer encountering technical problems with an eCRB filing must immediately notify the Copyright Royalty Board of the problem either by email, or by telephone, followed promptly by written confirmation.

(2) If a filer is unable, due to technical problems, to make a filing with eCRB by an applicable deadline, and makes the notification required by paragraph (m)(1) of this section, the filer shall use electronic mail to make the filing with the Copyright Royalty Board and deliver the filing to the other parties to the proceeding. The filing shall be considered to have been made at the time it was filed by electronic mail. The Copyright Royalty Judges may direct the filer to refile the document through eCRB when the technical problem has been resolved, but the document shall retain its original filing date.

(3) The inability to complete an electronic filing because of technical problems arising in the eCRB system may constitute "good cause" (as used in ยง 303.6(b)(4)) for an order enlarging time or excusable neglect for the failure to act within the specified time, provided the filer complies with paragraph (m)(1) of this section. This section does not provide authority to extend statutory time limits.
