
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter A - General Provisions
#### PART 303 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
##### ยง 303.7 Time.
###### Computation.

(a)To compute the due date for filing and delivering any document or performing any other act directed by an order of the Copyright Royalty Judges or the rules of the Copyright Royalty Board:

(1) Exclude the day of the act, event, or default that begins the period.

(2) Exclude intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays when the period is less than 11 days, unless computation of the due date is stated in calendar days.

(3) Include the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, Federal holiday, or a day on which the weather or other conditions render the Copyright Royalty Board's office inaccessible.

(4) As used in this rule, "Federal holiday" means the date designated for the observance of New Year's Day, Inauguration Day, Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., George Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and any other day declared a Federal holiday by the President or the Congress.

(5) Except as otherwise described in this Chapter or in an order by the Copyright Royalty Judges, the Copyright Royalty Board will consider documents to be timely filed only if:

(i) They are filed electronically through eCRB and time-stamped by 11:59:59 p.m. Eastern time on the due date;

(ii) They are sent by U.S. mail, are addressed in accordance with ยง 301.2(a) of this chapter, have sufficient postage, and bear a USPS postmark on or before the due date;

(iii) They are hand-delivered by private party to the Copyright Office Public Information Office in accordance with ยง 301.2(b) of this chapter and received by 5:00 p.m. Eastern time on the due date; or

(iv) They are hand-delivered by commercial courier to the Congressional Courier Acceptance Site in accordance with ยง 301.2(c) of this chapter and received by 4:00 p.m. Eastern time on the due date.

(6) Any document sent by mail and dated only with a business postal meter will be considered filed on the date it is actually received by the Library of Congress.
