
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter B - Copyright Royalty Judges Rules and Procedures
#### PART 355 - ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 355.3 Submissions and discovery.
###### Depositions.

(e)The Digital Licensee Coordinator may give notice of and take up to five depositions during the first discovery period. To the extent any other participant eligible to take discovery during the first discovery period and whose interests may not be fully represented by either the Mechanical Licensing Collective or the Digital Licensee Coordinator seeks to notice and take a deposition, that participant shall first notify all other proceeding participants and the participants shall attempt, in good faith, to accommodate by agreement of the parties any deposition for which good cause is shown. If, after good faith discussions, the participants are unable to agree with respect to any such additional deposition, the participant seeking to take the deposition may file a motion pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section. The Mechanical Licensing Collective may give notice of and take up to five depositions during the second discovery period. Any deposition under this paragraph (e) shall be no longer than seven hours in duration on the record (exclusive of adjournments for lunch and other personal needs), with each deponent subject to a maximum of one seven-hour deposition in any Administrative Assessment proceeding, except as otherwise extended in this part, or upon a motion demonstrating good cause to extend the hour and day limits. In addition to the party noticing the deposition, any other parties to the proceeding may attend any depositions and shall have a right, but not an obligation, to examine the deponent during the final hour of the deposition, (except as that allocation of time may otherwise be stipulated by agreement of all participants attending the deposition), provided that any participant exercising its right to examine a deponent provides notice of that intent no later than two days prior to the scheduled deposition date. The initial notice of deposition under this paragraph (e) must be delivered by email or other electronic means to all participants in the proceeding, and such notice shall be sent no later than seven days prior to the scheduled deposition date, unless the deposition is scheduled to occur less than seven days after the date of the notice by agreement of the parties and the deponent. An individual is properly named as a deponent if that individual likely possesses information that meets the standards for document production under this part.
