
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter B - Copyright Royalty Judges Rules and Procedures
#### PART 355 - ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT PROCEEDINGS
##### ยง 355.3 Submissions and discovery.
###### Discovery disputes.

(h)(1) Prior to invoking the procedures set forth in this paragraph (h), any participant that seeks intervention of the Copyright Royalty Judges to resolve a discovery dispute must first attempt in good faith to resolve the dispute between it and the other proceeding participant(s). All proceeding participants have a duty to, and shall, cooperate in good faith to resolve any such disputes without involvement of the Copyright Royalty Judges to the extent possible.

(2) In the event that two or more participants are unable to resolve a discovery dispute after good-faith consultation, a participant requesting discovery may file a motion and brief of no more than 1,500 words with the Copyright Royalty Judges. The motion must include a certification that the participant filing the motion attempted to resolve the dispute at issue in good faith, but was unable to do so. For a dispute involving the provision of documents or deposition testimony, the brief shall detail the reasons why the documents or deposition testimony are Discoverable.

(3) The responding participant may file a responsive brief of no more than 1,500 words within two business days of the submission of the initial brief.

(4) Absent unusual circumstances, the Copyright Royalty Judges will rule on the dispute within three business days of the filing of the responsive brief. Upon reasonable notice to the participants, the Chief Copyright Royalty Judge, or an individual Copyright Royalty Judge designated by the Chief Copyright Royalty Judge, may consider and rule on any discovery dispute in a telephone conference with the relevant participants.
