
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter D - Notice and Recordkeeping Requirements for Statutory Licenses
#### PART 370 - NOTICE AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS FOR STATUTORY LICENSES
##### ยง 370.4 Reports of use of sound recordings under statutory license for nonsubscription transmission services, preexisting satellite digital audio radio services, new subscription services and business establishment services.
###### Files with headers.

(7)(i) If a service elects to submit files with headers, the following elements, in order, must occupy the first 14 rows of a report of use:

(A) Name of service;

(B) Name of contact person;

(C) Street address of the service;

(D) City, state and zip code of the service;

(E) Telephone number of the contact person;

(F) E-mail address of the contact person;

(G) Start of the reporting period (YYYYMMDD);

(H) End of the reporting period (YYYYMMDD);

(I) Report generation date (YYYYMMDD);

(J) Number of rows in data file, beginning with 15th row;

(K) Text indicator character;

(L) Field delimiter character;

(M) Blank line; and

(N) Report headers (Featured Artist, Sound Recording Title, etc.).

(ii) Each of the rows described in paragraphs (e)(7)(i)(A) through (F) of this section must not exceed 255 alphanumeric characters. Each of the rows described in paragraphs (e)(7)(i)(G) through (I) of this section should not exceed eight alphanumeric characters.

(iii) Data text fields, as required by paragraph (d) of this section, begin on row 15 of a report of use with headers. A carriage return must be at the end of each row thereafter. Abbreviations within data fields are not permitted.

(iv) The text indicator character must be unique and must never be found in the report's data content.

(v) The field delimiter character must be unique and must never be found in the report's data content. Delimiters must be used even when certain elements are not being reported; in such case, the service must denote the blank data field with a delimiter in the order in which it would have appeared.
