
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter E - Rates and Terms for Statutory Licenses
#### PART 381 - USE OF CERTAIN COPYRIGHTED WORKS IN CONNECTION WITH NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL BROADCASTING
##### ยง 381.6 Performance of musical compositions by other public broadcasting entities.
###### Payment of royalty rate.

(e)The public broadcasting entity shall pay the required royalty rate to ASCAP, BMI and SESAC not later than January 31 of each year. Each annual payment shall be accompanied by a signed declaration stating the Population Count of the public broadcasting entity and the source for such Population Count. An exact copy of such declaration shall be furnished to each of ASCAP, BMI and SESAC. Upon prior written notice thereof from ASCAP, BMI and SESAC, a public broadcasting entity shall make its books and records relating to its Population Count available for inspection. In the event that a public broadcasting entity wishes to be deemed a Talk Format Station, then such entity shall provide a signed declaration stating that Feature Music is performed in less than 20% of its annual programming and that it complies with the caps set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. An exact copy of such declaration shall be furnished to each of ASCAP, BMI and SESAC. Upon prior written notice thereof from ASCAP, BMI or SESAC, a public broadcasting entity shall make its program schedule or other documentation supporting its eligibility as a Talk Format Station available for inspection.
