
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter E - Rates and Terms for Statutory Licenses
#### PART 381 - USE OF CERTAIN COPYRIGHTED WORKS IN CONNECTION WITH NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL BROADCASTING
##### ยง 381.7 Recording rights, rates and terms.
###### Royalty rate.

(b)(1)(i) For uses described in paragraph (a) of this section of a musical work in a PBS-distributed program, the royalty fees shall be calculated by multiplying the following per-composition rates by the number of different compositions in that PBS-distributed program:

(ii) For such uses other than in a PBS-distributed television program, the royalty fee shall be calculated by multiplying the following per-composition rates by the number of different compositions in that program:

(iii) In the event the work is first recorded other than in a PBS-distributed program, and such program is subsequently distributed by PBS, an additional royalty payment shall be made equal to the difference between the rate specified in this section for other than a PBS-distributed program and the rate specified in this section for a PBS-distributed program.

(2) For uses licensed herein of a musical work in a NPR program, the royalty fees shall be calculated by multiplying the following per-composition rates by the number of different compositions in any NPR program distributed by NPR. For purposes of this schedule "National Public Radio" programs include all programs produced in whole or in part by NPR, or by any NPR station or organization under contract with NPR.

(3) For purposes of this schedule, a "Concert Feature" shall be deemed to be the nondramatic presentation in a program of all or part of a symphony, concerto, or other serious work originally written for concert performance, or the nondramatic presentation in a program of portions of a serious work originally written for opera performance.

(4) For such uses other than in an NPR-produced radio program:

(5) The schedule of fees covers use for a period of three years following the first use. Succeeding use periods will require the following additional payment: Additional one-year period-25 percent of the initial three-year fee; second three-year period-50 percent of the initial three-year fee; each three-year fee thereafter-25 percent of the initial three-year fee; provided that a 100 percent additional payment prior to the expiration of the first three-year period will cover use during all subsequent use periods without limitation. Such succeeding uses which are subsequent to December 31, 2017, shall be subject to the royalty rates established in this schedule.
