
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter E - Rates and Terms for Statutory Licenses
#### PART 381 - USE OF CERTAIN COPYRIGHTED WORKS IN CONNECTION WITH NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL BROADCASTING
##### ยง 381.8 Terms and rates of royalty payments for the use of published pictorial, graphic, and sculptural works.
###### Royalty rate.

(b)(1) The following schedule of rates shall apply to the use of works within the scope of this section:

(i) For such uses in a PBS-distributed program:

(ii) For such uses in other than PBS-distributed programs:

(2) For the purposes of the schedule in paragraph (b)(1) of this section the rate for the thematic use of a work in an entire series shall be double the single program theme rate. In the event the work is first used other than in a PBS-distributed program, and such program is subsequently distributed by PBS, an additional royalty payment shall be made equal to the difference between the rate specified in this section for other than a PBS-distributed program and the rate specified in this section for a PBS-distributed program.

(3) "Featured display" for purposes of this schedule means a full-screen or substantially full-screen display appearing on the screen for more than three seconds. Any display less than full-screen or substantially full-screen, or full-screen for three seconds or less, is deemed to be a "background or montage display".

(4) "Thematic use" is the utilization of the works of one or more artists where the works constitute the central theme of the program or convey a story line.

(5) "Display of an art reproduction copyrighted separately from the work of fine art from which the work was reproduced" means a transparency or other reproduction of an underlying work of fine art.
