
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter E - Rates and Terms for Statutory Licenses
#### PART 385 - RATES AND TERMS FOR USE OF NONDRAMATIC MUSICAL WORKS IN THE MAKING AND DISTRIBUTING OF PHYSICAL AND DIGITAL PHONORECORDS
##### Subpart C - Eligible Interactive Streaming, Eligible Limited Downloads, Standalone Limited Offerings, Mixed Service Bundles, Bundled Subscription Offerings, Locker Services, and Other Delivery Configurations
###### ยง 385.21 Royalty rates and calculations.
####### Computation of per-subscriber rates and royalty floors.

(e)For purposes of this section, to determine the per-subscriber rates in step 1 in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the royalty floors in step 3 in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, as applicable to any particular Offering, the total number of subscribers for the Accounting Period shall be calculated by taking all End Users who were subscribers for a complete Accounting Period, prorating in the case of End Users who were subscribers for only part of an Accounting Period (such proration may take into account the subscriber's billing period), and deducting on a prorated basis for End Users covered by an Offering subject to subpart D of this part, except in the case of a Bundled Subscription Offering, subscribers shall be determined with respect to Active Subscribers. The product of the total number of subscribers for the Accounting Period and the specified number of cents per subscriber (or Active Subscriber, as the case may be) shall be used as the subscriber-based components of the royalty calculation for the Accounting Period. A Family Plan subscription shall be treated as 1.75 subscribers per Accounting Period, prorated in the case of a Family Plan subscription in effect for only part of an Accounting Period. A Student Plan subscription shall be treated as 0.5 subscribers per Accounting Period, prorated in the case of a Student Plan subscription in effect for only part of an Accounting Period. A Bundled Subscription Offering containing a Family Plan with one or more Active Subscriber(s) shall be treated as having 1.75 Active Subscribers. A Bundled Subscription Offering containing a Student Plan with an Active Subscriber shall be treated as having 0.5 Active Subscribers. For the purposes of calculating per-subscriber rates and royalty floors under this section, Artificial Accounts shall not be counted as subscribers, Active Subscribers, or End Users.
