
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter III - Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress
### Subchapter E - Rates and Terms for Statutory Licenses
#### PART 390 - AMOUNTS OF AND TERMS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENTS TO FUND MECHANICAL LICENSING COLLECTIVE
##### ยง 390.3 Annual minimum fees.
###### New licensees.

(e)(1) A New Licensee shall remit the lowest annual fee set forth in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, along with its notice of license or notice of nonblanket activity to be attributable to the calendar year in which such Licensee begins engaging in covered activities.

(2) A New Licensee shall initially be deemed a Flat Fee Licensee. When the MLC calculates the Quarterly Allocation with the first calculation period pursuant to ยง 390.4(b) during which the New Licensee was engaged in covered activities, whether such activities were for all or part of the calculation period, the MLC shall calculate the New Licensee's Unique Sound Recording Count for that calculation period. In the event that such New Licensee has not provided timely reporting, the MLC may instead, in its discretion, use the most recent reporting from that New Licensee for such calculation. If such New Licensee is calculated to have a Unique Sound Recordings Count that exceeds the amount that would qualify it to be a Flat Fee Licensee under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, it shall be deemed an Allocated Licensee for that Quarterly Allocation and the remainder of the calendar year and shall be invoiced and pay the assessment as calculated in ยง 390.4 for the respective quarters, with such New Licensee's Unique Sound Recordings Count to be included in the Aggregate Sound Recording Count for such quarters.

(3) A New Licensee shall be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable, to determine the amount and timing of the annual minimum fees owed for the calendar year following the year when the Licensee begins engaging in covered activities, and for such purposes a New Licensee shall be treated as having a Unique Sound Recordings Count of zero for the Annual Calculation Period if it began engaging in covered activities after the end of the Annual Calculation Period. A New Licensee that has been deemed an Allocated Licensee pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section shall be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable, to determine its status as a Flat Fee Licensee or Allocated Licensee, for calendar years following the calendar year in which it is first deemed an Allocated Licensee.
