
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PATENT CASES
##### Subpart G - Biotechnology Invention Disclosures
###### Deposit of Biological Material
####### ยง 1.807 Viability of deposit.

(a) A deposit of biological material that is capable of self-replication either directly or indirectly must be viable at the time of deposit and during the term of deposit. Viability may be tested by the depository. The test must conclude only that the deposited material is capable of reproduction. No evidence is necessarily required regarding the ability of the deposited material to perform any function described in the patent application.

(b) A viability statement for each deposit of a biological material defined in paragraph (a) of this section not made under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure must be filed in the application and must contain:

(1) The name and address of the depository;

(2) The name and address of the depositor;

(3) The date of deposit;

(4) The identity of the deposit and the accession number given by the depository;

(5) The date of the viability test;

(6) The procedures used to obtain a sample if the test is not done by the depository; and

(7) A statement that the deposit is capable of reproduction.

(c) If a viability test indicates that the deposit is not viable upon receipt, or the examiner cannot, for scientific or other valid reasons, accept the statement of viability received from the applicant, the examiner shall proceed as if no deposit has been made. The examiner will accept the conclusion set forth in a viability statement issued by a depository recognized under ยง 1.803(a).
