
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PATENT CASES
##### Subpart G - Biotechnology Invention Disclosures
###### Application Disclosures Containing Nucleotide and/or Amino Acid Sequences
####### ยง 1.822 Symbols and format to be used for nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence data.
######## Format representation of nucleotides.

(c)(1) A nucleotide sequence shall be listed using the lowercase letter for representing the one-letter code for the nucleotide bases set forth in appendix A to this subpart.

(2) The bases in a nucleotide sequence (including introns) shall be listed in groups of 10 bases except in the coding parts of the sequence. Leftover bases, fewer than 10 in number, at the end of noncoding parts of a sequence shall be grouped together and separated from adjacent groups of 10 or 3 bases by a space.

(3) The bases in the coding parts of a nucleotide sequence shall be listed as triplets (codons). The amino acids corresponding to the codons in the coding parts of a nucleotide sequence shall be listed immediately below the corresponding codons. Where a codon spans an intron, the amino acid symbol shall be listed below the portion of the codon containing two nucleotides.

(4) A nucleotide sequence shall be listed with a maximum of 16 codons or 60 bases per line, with a space provided between each codon or group of 10 bases.

(5) A nucleotide sequence shall be represented, only by a single strand, in the 5 to 3 direction, from left to right.

(6) The enumeration of nucleotide bases shall start at the first base of the sequence with number 1. The enumeration shall be continuous through the whole sequence in the direction 5 to 3. The enumeration shall appear in the right margin, next to the line containing the one-letter codes for the bases and giving the number of the last base of that line.

(7) For those nucleotide sequences that are circular in configuration, the enumeration method set forth in paragraph (c)(6) of this section remains applicable with the exception that the designation of the first base of the nucleotide sequence may be made at the option of the applicant.
