
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN PATENT CASES
##### Subpart G - Biotechnology Invention Disclosures
###### Application Disclosures Containing Nucleotide and/or Amino Acid Sequences
####### ยง 1.832 Representation of nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence data in the "Sequence Listing XML" part of a patent application filed on or after July 1, 2022.
######## see

(a) Each disclosed nucleotide or amino acid sequence that meets the requirements of ยง 1.831(b) must appear separately in the "Sequence Listing XML." Each sequence set forth in the "Sequence Listing XML" must be assigned a separate sequence identifier. The sequence identifiers must begin with 1 and increase sequentially by integers as defined in paragraph 10 of WIPO Standard ST.26 (incorporated by reference,ยง 1.839).

(b) The representation and symbols for nucleotide sequence data shall conform to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) A nucleotide sequence must be represented in the manner described in paragraphs 11-12 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(2) All nucleotides, including nucleotide analogs, modified nucleotides, and "unknown" nucleotides, within a nucleotide sequence must be represented using the symbols set forth in paragraphs 13-16, 19, and 21 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(3) Modified nucleotides within a nucleotide sequence must be described in the manner discussed in paragraphs 17, 18, and 19 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(4) A region containing a known number of contiguous "a," "c," "g," "t," or "n" residues for which the same description applies may be jointly described in the manner described in paragraph 22 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(c) The representation and symbols for amino acid sequence data shall conform to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The amino acids in an amino acid sequence must be represented in the manner described in paragraphs 24 and 25 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(2) All amino acids, including modified amino acids and "unknown" amino acids, within an amino acid sequence must be represented using the symbols set forth in paragraphs 26-29 and 32 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(3) Modified amino acids within an amino acid sequence must be described in the manner discussed in paragraphs 29 and 30 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(4) A region containing a known number of contiguous "X" residues for which the same description applies may be jointly described in the manner described in paragraph 34 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(d) A nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence that is constructed as a single continuous sequence derived from one or more non-contiguous segments of a larger sequence or of segments from different sequences must be listed in the "Sequence Listing XML" in the manner described in paragraph 35 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(e) A nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence that contains regions of specifically defined residues separated by one or more regions of contiguous "n" or "X" residues, wherein the exact number of "n" or "X" residues in each region is disclosed, must be listed in the "Sequence Listing XML" in the manner described in paragraph 36 of WIPO Standard ST.26.

(f) A nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence that contains regions of specifically defined residues separated by one or more gaps of an unknown or undisclosed number of residues must be listed in the "Sequence Listing XML" in the manner described in paragraph 37 of WIPO Standard ST.26.
