
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN TRADEMARK CASES
##### The Written Application
###### § 2.32 Requirements for a complete trademark or service mark application.

(a) The application must be in English and include the following:

(1) A request for registration;

(2) The name, domicile address, and email address of each applicant. If the applicant is a national of a country that has acceded to the Trademark Law Treaty, but not to the Singapore Treaty on the Law of Trademarks, the requirement to provide an email address does not apply;

(3)(i) The legal entity type and citizenship of the applicant(s); and

(ii) If the applicant is a corporation, association, partnership or other juristic person, the jurisdiction (usually state or nation) under the laws of which the applicant is organized;

(iii) If the applicant is a domestic partnership, the names and citizenship of the general partners;

(iv) If the applicant is a domestic joint venture, the names and citizenship of the active members of the joint venture; or

(v) If the applicant is a sole proprietorship, the state of organization of the sole proprietorship and the name and citizenship of the sole proprietor.

(4) When the applicant is, or must be, represented by an attorney, as defined in § 11.1 of this chapter, who is qualified to practice under § 11.14 of this chapter, the attorney's name, postal address, email address, and bar information;

(5) One or more bases, as required by § 2.34(a);

(6) A list of the particular goods or services on or in connection with which the applicant uses or intends to use the mark. In a U.S. application filed under section 44 of the Act, the scope of the goods or services covered by the section 44 basis may not exceed the scope of the goods or services in the foreign application or registration;

(7) The international class of goods or services, if known. See § 6.1 of this chapter for a list of the international classes of goods and services.

(8) If the mark is not in standard characters, a description of the mark;

(9) If the mark includes non-English wording, an English translation of that wording; and

(10) If the mark includes non-Latin characters, a transliteration of those characters, and either a translation of the transliterated term in English, or a statement that the transliterated term has no meaning in English.

(b) The application must include a verified statement that meets the requirements of § 2.33.

(c) The application must include a drawing that meets the requirements of § 2.51 and § 2.52.

(d) The application must include the fee required by § 2.6 for each class of goods or services.

(e) For the requirements of a multiple-class application, see § 2.86.

(f) For the requirements of all collective mark applications, see § 2.44.

(g) For the requirements of a certification mark application, see § 2.45.
