
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN TRADEMARK CASES
##### The Written Application
###### ยง 2.35 Adding, deleting, or substituting bases.
####### inter partes,inter partes

(2) After publication, an applicant may add or substitute a basis in an application that is not the subject of anproceeding before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, but only with the express permission of the Director, after consideration on petition. Republication will be required. The amendment of an application that is the subject of anproceeding before the Board is governed by ยง 2.133(a).

(3) When an applicant substitutes one basis for another, the Office will presume that there was a continuing valid basis, unless there is contradictory evidence in the record, and the application will retain the original filing date, including a priority filing date under section 44(d), if appropriate.

(4) If an applicant properly claims a section 44(d) basis in addition to another basis, the applicant will retain the priority filing date under section 44(d) no matter which basis the applicant perfects.

(5) The applicant may add or substitute a section 44(d) basis only within the six-month priority period following the filing date of the foreign application.

(6) When the applicant adds or substitutes a basis, the applicant must list each basis and specify the goods, services, or collective membership organization to which that basis applies.

(7) When the applicant deletes a basis, the applicant must also delete any goods, services, or collective membership organization covered solely by the deleted basis.

(8) Once an applicant claims a section 1(b) basis as to any or all of the goods or services, or a collective membership organization, the applicant may not amend the application to seek registration under section 1(a) of the Act for identical goods or services or the same collective membership organization, unless the applicant files an allegation of use under section 1(c) or section 1(d) of the Act.
