
# Title 37 - Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
## Chapter I - United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 2 - RULES OF PRACTICE IN TRADEMARK CASES
##### Amendment of Application
###### ยง 2.76 Amendment to allege use.
####### When to file an amendment to allege use.

(a)(1) An application under section 1(b) of the Act may be amended to allege use of the mark in commerce under section 1(c) of the Act at any time between the filing of the application and the date the examiner approves the mark for publication. Thereafter, an allegation of use may be submitted only as a statement of use under ยง 2.88 after the issuance of a notice of allowance under section 13(b)(2) of the Act. An amendment to allege use filed outside the time period specified in this paragraph will not be reviewed.

(2)(i) For a trademark, service mark, collective trademark, collective service mark, and certification mark, an amendment to allege use may be filed only when the mark has been in use in commerce on or in connection with all the goods or services specified in the application for which the applicant will seek registration. For a collective membership mark, an amendment to allege use may be filed only when the mark has been in use in commerce to indicate membership in the collective organization specified in the application for which the applicant will seek registration.

(ii) An amendment to allege use may be accompanied by a request in accordance with ยง 2.87 to divide out from the application the goods, services, or classes not yet in use in commerce.
