
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 12 - REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN PERSONS HAVING KNOWLEDGE OF FOREIGN ESPIONAGE, COUNTERESPIONAGE, OR SABOTAGE MATTERS UNDER THE ACT OF AUGUST 1, 1956
#### ยง 12.24 Forms.

(a) Every person required to register under the act shall file a registration statement on Form GA-1, and such other forms as may from time to time be prescribed by the Attorney General.

(b) Matter contained in any part of the registration statement or other document may not be incorporated by reference as answer, or partial answer, to any other item in the registration statement required to be filed under the act.

(c) Except as specifically provided otherwise, if any item on the form is inapplicable, or the answer is "None," an express statement to such effect shall be made.

(d) Every statement, amendment, and every duplicate thereof, shall be executed under oath and shall be sworn to before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths.

(e) A registration statement or amendment thereof required to be filed shall, if possible, be typewritten, but will be regarded as in substantial compliance with this regulation if written legibly in black ink.

(f) Riders shall not be used. If the space on the registration statement or other form is insufficient for any answer, reference shall be made in the appropriate space to a full insert page or pages on which the item number and item shall be restated and the complete answer given.
