
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 14 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
#### Appendix A to Part 14 - Delegations of Settlement Authority

(a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall have the authority to adjust, determine, compromise, and settle a claim involving the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, relating to the administrative settlement of Federal tort claims, if the amount of the proposed adjustment, compromise, or award does not exceed $500,000. When the Secretary believes a pending administrative claim presents a novel question of law or of policy, the Secretary shall obtain the advice of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division.

(b) The Secretary may redelegate, in writing, the settlement authority delegated under this section.

Whenever the Secretary of Veterans Affairs settles any administrative claim pursuant to the authority granted by section 1 for an amount in excess of $200,000 and within the amount delegated under section 1, a memorandum fully explaining the basis for the action taken shall be executed. A copy of this memorandum shall be sent contemporaneously to the Director, FTCA Staff, Torts Branch of the Civil Division.

(a) The Postmaster General shall have the authority to adjust, determine, compromise, and settle a claim involving the United States Postal Service under section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, relating to the administrative settlement of Federal tort claims, if the amount of the proposed adjustment, compromise, or award does not exceed $500,000. When the Postmaster General believes a pending administrative claim presents a novel question of law or of policy, the Postmaster General shall obtain the advice of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division.

(b) The Postmaster General may redelegate, in writing, the settlement authority delegated under this section.

Whenever the Postmaster General settles any administrative claim pursuant to the authority granted by section 1 for an amount in excess of $200,000 and within the amount delegated under section 1, a memorandum fully explaining the basis for the action taken shall be executed. A copy of this memorandum shall be sent contemporaneously to the Director, FTCA Staff, Torts Branch of the Civil Division.

(a) The Secretary of Defense shall have the authority to adjust, determine, compromise, and settle a claim involving the Department of Defense under section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, relating to the administrative settlement of Federal tort claims, if the amount of the proposed adjustment, compromise, or award does not exceed $500,000. When the Secretary believes a pending administrative claim presents a novel question of law or of policy, the Secretary shall obtain the advice of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division.

(b) The Secretary may redelegate, in writing, the settlement authority delegated under this section.

Whenever the Secretary of Defense settles any administrative claim pursuant to the authority granted by section 1 for an amount in excess of $200,000 and within the amount delegated under section 1, a memorandum fully explaining the basis for the action taken shall be executed. A copy of this memorandum shall be sent contemporaneously to the Director, FTCA Staff, Torts Branch of the Civil Division.

(a) The Secretary of Transportation shall have the authority to adjust, determine, compromise and settle a claim involving the United States Department of Transportation under section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, relating to the administrative settlement of federal tort claims, if the amount of the proposed adjustment, compromise, or award does not exceed $100,000. When the Secretary of Transportation believes a claim pending before him presents a novel question of law or of policy, he shall obtain the advice of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division.

(b) The Secretary of Transportation may redelegate in writing the settlement authority delegated to him under this section.

Whenever the Secretary of Transportation settles any administrative claim pursuant to the authority granted by section 1 for an amount in excess of $50,000 and within the amount delegated to him under section 1, a memorandum fully explaining the basis for the action taken shall be executed. A copy of this memorandum shall be sent to the Director, FTCA Staff, Torts Branch of the Civil Division.

(a) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall have the authority to adjust, determine, compromise, and settle a claim involving the Department of Health and Human Services under section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, relating to the administrative settlement of federal tort claims, if the amount of the proposed adjustment, compromise, or award does not exceed $200,000. When the Secretary of Health and Human Services believes a claim pending before him presents a novel question of law or policy, he shall obtain the advice of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division.

(b) The Secretary of Health and Human Services may redelegate, in writing, the settlement authority delegated to him under this section.

Whenever the Secretary of Health and Human Services settles any administrative claim pursuant to the authority granted by section 1 for an amount in excess of $100,000 and within the amount delegated to him under section 1, a memorandum fully explaining the basis for the action taken shall be executed. A copy of this memorandum shall be sent to the Director, FTCA Staff, Torts Branch of the Civil Division.

(a) The Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security shall have the authority to adjust, determine, compromise, and settle a claim involving the Department of Homeland Security under Section 2672 of Title 28, United States Code, relating to the administrative settlement of federal tort claims if the amount of the proposed adjustment, compromise, or award does not exceed $50,000. When the Secretary believes a claim pending before him presents a novel question of law or of policy, he shall obtain the advice of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division.

(b) The Secretary may redelegate, in writing, the settlement authority delegated to him under this section.
