
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 16 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMATION
#### Subpart D - Protection of Privacy and Access to Individual Records Under the Privacy Act of 1974
##### ยง 16.41 Requests for access to records.
###### How made and addressed.,http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs

(a)You may make a request for access to a Department of Justice record about yourself by appearing in person or by writing directly to the Department component that maintains the record. Your request should be sent or delivered to the component's Privacy Act office at the address listed in appendix I to this part. In most cases, a component's central Privacy Act office is the place to send a Privacy Act request. For records held by a field office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) or the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), however, you must write directly to that FBI or INS field office address, which can be found in most telephone books or by calling the component's central Privacy Act office. (The functions of each component are summarized in Part 0 of this title and in the description of the Department and its components in the "United States Government Manual," which is issued annually and is available in most libraries, as well as for sale from the Government Printing Office's Superintendent of Documents. This manual also can be accessed electronically at the Government Printing Office's World Wide Web site (which can be found at). If you cannot determine where within the Department to send your request, you may send it to the FOIA/PA Mail Referral Unit, Justice Management Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20530-0001, and that office will forward it to the component(s) it believes most likely to have the records that you seek. For the quickest possible handling, you should mark both your request letter and the envelope "Privacy Act Request."
