
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 16 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMATION
#### Subpart E - Exemption of Records Systems Under the Privacy Act
##### ยง 16.76 Exemption of Justice Management Division.

(a) The following system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d):

(1) Controlled Substances Act Nonpublic Records (JUSTICE/JMD-002).

(b) Exemption from subsection (d) is justified for the following reasons:

(1) Access to and use of the nonpublic records maintained in this system are restricted by law. Section 3607(b) of Title 18 U.S.C. (enacted as part of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-473, Chapter II) provides that the sole purpose of these records shall be for use by the courts in determining whether a person found guilty of violating section 404 of the Controlled Substances Act qualifies:

(i) For the disposition available under 18 U.S.C. 3607(a) to persons with no prior conviction under a Federal or State law relating to controlled substances, or

(ii) For an order, under 18 U.S.C. 3607(c), expunging all official records (except the nonpublic records to be retained by the Department of Justice) of the arrest and any subsequent criminal proceedings relating to the offense.

(2) Information in this system consists of arrest records, including those of co-defendants. The records include reports of informants and investigations. Therefore, access could disclose investigative techniques, reveal the identity of confidential sources, and invade the privacy of third parties.

(c) The following system of records is exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8); and (g): Federal Bureau of Investigation Whistleblower Case Files (Justice/JMD-023). These exemptions apply only to the extent that information in a record contained within this system is subject to exemptions pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k).

(d) Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
