
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 16 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMATION
#### Subpart E - Exemption of Records Systems Under the Privacy Act
##### ยง 16.88 Exemption of Antitrust Division Systems - limited access.

(a) The following system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(4) (G) and (H), and (f):

(1) Antitrust Caseload Evaluation System (ACES)-Monthly Report (JUSTICE/ATR-006).

(b) Exemption from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:

(1) From subsection (c)(3) because information in this system is maintained in aid of ongoing antitrust enforcement investigations and proceedings. The release of the accounting of disclosures made under subsection (b) of the Act would permit the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal or civil violation to determine whether he is the subject of an investigation. Disclosure of the accounting would therefore present a serious impediment to antitrust law enforcement efforts.

(2) From subsection (d) because access to the information retrievable from this system and compiled for law enforcement purposes could result in the premature disclosure of the identity of the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal or civil violation and information concerning the nature of that investigation. This information could enable the subject to avoid detection or apprehension. This would present a serious impediment to effective law enforcement since the subject could hinder or prevent the successful completion of the investigation. Further, confidential business and financial information, the identities of confidential sources of information, third party privacy information, and statutorily confidential information such as grand jury information must be protected from disclosure.

(3) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f) because this system is exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d).

(c) The following system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f):

(1) Freedom of Information/Privacy-Requester/Subject Index File (JUSTICE/ATR-008).

(d) Because this system contains Department of Justice civil and criminal law enforcement, investigatory records, exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:

(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the accounting of disclosures made under subsection (b) of the Act would permit the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal or civil violation to determine whether he is the subject of an investigation. Disclosure of accounting would therefore present a serious impediment to antitrust law enforcement efforts.

(2) From subsection (d) because access to information in this system could result in the premature disclosure of the identity of the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal or civil violation and information concerning the nature of the investigation. This information could enable the subject to avoid detection or apprehension. This would present a serious impendiment to effective law enforcement since the subject could hinder or prevent the successful completion of the investigation. Further, confidential business and financial information, the identities of confidential sources of information, third party privacy information, and statutorily confidential information such as grand jury information must be protected from disclosure.

(3) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f) because this system is exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d).
