
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart O - Justice Management Division
##### § 0.76 Specific functions.

The functions delegated to the Assistant Attorney General for Administration by this subpart O shall also include the following specific policy functions:

(a) Directing the Department's financial management operations, including control of the accounting for appropriations and expenditures, employment limitations, voucher examination and audit, overtime pay, establishing per diem rates, promulgation of policies for travel, transportation, and relocation expenses, and issuance of necessary regulations pertaining thereto.

(b) Submission of requests to the Office of Management and Budget for apportionment or reapportionment of appropriations, including the determination, whenever required, that such apportionment or reapportionment indicates the necessity for the submission of a request for a deficiency or supplemental estimate, and to make allotments to organizational units of the Department of funds made available to the Department within the limits of such apportionments or reapportionments (31 U.S.C. 665).

(c) Approving per diem allowances for travel by airplane, train or boat outside the continental United States in accordance with paragraph 1-7.2 of the Federal Travel Regulations (FPMR 101-7).

(d) Exercising the claims settlement authority under the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 (31 U.S.C. 952).

(e) Authorizing payment of actual expense of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702(c)).

(f) Prescribing regulations providing for premium pay pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5541-5550a.

(g) Settling and authorizing payment of employee claims under the Military and Civilian Employees' Claims Act of 1964, as amended (31 U.S.C. 240-243).

(h) Submitting requests to the Comptroller General for decisions (31 U.S.C. 74, 82d) and deciding questions involving the payment of $25 or less (Comp. Gen. B-161457, July 14, 1976).

(i) Making determinations with respect to employment and wages under section 3122 of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (26 U.S.C. 3122).

(j) Excluding the Office of Justice Assistance, Research and Statistics, supervising and directing the Department's procurement and contracting functions and assuring that equal employment opportunity is practiced by the Department's contractors and subcontractors and in federally assisted programs under the Department's control.

(k) Designating Contracts Compliance Officers pursuant to Executive Order 11246, as amended.

(l) Making the certificate required with respect to the necessity for including illustrations in printing (44 U.S.C. 1104).

(m) Making the certificates with respect to the necessity of long distance telephone calls (31 U.S.C. 680a).

(n) Making certificates of need for space (68 Stat. 518, 519).

(o) Exercising, except for the authority conferred in §§ 0.15(b)(1), 0.19(a)(1), 0.137, and 0.138 of this part, the power and authority vested in the Attorney General to take final action on matters pertaining to the employment, separation, and general administration of personnel in General Schedule grade GS-1 through GS-15, and in wage board positions; classify positions in the Department under the General Schedule and wage board systems regardless of grade; postaudit and correct any personnel action within the Department; and inspect at any time any personnel operations of the various organizational units of the Department.

(p) Selecting and assigning employees for training by, in, or through non-Government facilities, paying the expenses of such training or reimbursing employees therefor, and preparing and submitting the required annual report to the Office of Personnel Management (5 U.S.C. 4103-4118).

(q) Exercising authority for the temporary employment of experts or consultants of organizations thereof, including stenographic reporting services (5 U.S.C. 3109(b)).

(r) Providing assistance in furnishing information to the public under the Public Information Section of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 552).

(s) Representing the Department in its contacts on matters relating to administration and management with the Congressional Appropriations Committees, Office of Management and Budget, the General Accounting Office, the Office of Personnel Management, the General Services Administration, the Joint Committee on Printing, the Government Printing Office and all other Federal departments and agencies.

(t) Taking final action, including making all required determinations and findings, in connection with the acquisition of real property for use by the Department of Justice.

(u) Perform functions with respect to the operation, maintenance, repair, preservation, alteration, furnishing, equipment and custody of buildings occupied by the Department of Justice as delegated by the Administrator of the General Services Administration.

(v) Implementing Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-76, "Performance of Commercial Activities".
