
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart O - Justice Management Division
##### ยง 0.77 Operational functions.

The Assistant Attorney General for Administration shall provide all direct administrative support services to the Offices, Boards and Divisions of the Department and to the U.S. Marshals Service, except where independent administrative authority has been conferred. These services shall include the following:

(a) Planning, directing and coordinating the personnel management program; providing personnel services including employment and staffing, employee relations, and classification, and including the employment, separation and general administration of employees, except attorneys, in General Schedule grades GS-15 and below, or equivalent pay levels.

(b) Formulating policies and plans for efficient administrative management and organization and developing and coordinating all management studies and reports on the operations of the Offices, Divisions and Boards.

(c) Planning, justifying, and compiling the annual and supplemental budget estimates of the Offices, Divisions and Boards.

(d) Planning, directing and executing accounting operations for the Offices, Divisions and Boards.

(e) Providing information systems analysis, design, computer programming, and systems implementation services consistent with Departmental information systems plans, policies and procedures.

(f) Implementing and administering management programs for the creation, organization, maintenance, use, and disposition of Federal records, and providing mail and messenger service.

(g) Implementing and administering programs for procurement, personal property, supply, motor vehicle, space management, and operations and management of buildings as delegated by the Administrator of the General Services Administration.

(h) Operating and maintaining the Department Library.

(i) Routing and controlling correspondence, maintaining indices of legal cases and matters, replying to correspondence not assignable to a division, safeguarding confidential information, attesting to the correctness of records, and related matters.

(j) Accepting service of summonses, complaints, or other papers, including, without limitation, subpoenas, directed to the Attorney General in his official capacity, as a representative of the Attorney General, under the Federal Rules of Civil and Criminal Procedure or in any suit within the purview of subsection (a) of section 208 of the Department of Justice Appropriation Act, 1953 (66 Stat. 560 (43 U.S.C. 666(a))).
