
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 16 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMATION
#### Subpart E - Exemption of Records Systems Under the Privacy Act
##### ยง 16.97 Exemption of Bureau of Prisons Systems - limited access.
###### e.g.

(m) These exemptions apply only to the extent that information in this system is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j). Where compliance would not appear to interfere with or adversely affect the law enforcement process, and/or where it may be appropriate to permit individuals to contest the accuracy of the information collected,public source materials, or those supplied by third parties, the applicable exemption may be waived, either partially or totally, by the Bureau. Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:

(1) From subsection (e)(1) to the extent that the Bureau may collect information that may be relevant to the law enforcement operations of other agencies. In the interests of overall, effective law enforcement, such information should be retained and made available to those agencies with relevant responsibilities.

(2) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection and maintenance of information for law enforcement purposes, it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely and complete. Data which may seem unrelated, irrelevant or incomplete when collected may take on added meaning or significance as an investigation progresses or with the passage of time, and could be relevant to future law enforcement decisions. In addition, amendment of the records may interfere with law enforcement operations and would impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring that law enforcement information be continuously reexamined, even where the information may have been collected from the record subject or other criminal justice agencies. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict and delay trained correctional managers from timely exercising their judgment in managing the inmate population and providing for the safety and security of the prisons and the public.

(n) The following system of records is exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) from subsections (e)(1) and (e)(5): Bureau of Prisons Inmate Physical and Mental Health Records System, (Justice/BOP-007).
