
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 16 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMATION
#### Subpart E - Exemption of Records Systems Under the Privacy Act
##### ยง 16.99 Exemption of the Immigration and Naturalization Service Systems-limited access.

(a) The following systems of records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c) (3) and (4), (d), (e) (1), (2) and (3), (e) (4)(G) and (H), (e) (5) and (8), and (g):

(1) The Immigration and Naturalization Service Alien File (A-File) and Central Index System (CIS), JUSTICE/INS-001A.

(2) The Immigration and Naturalization Service Index System, JUSTICE/INS-001 which consists of the following subsystems:

(i) Agency Information Control Record Index.

(ii) Alien Enemy Index.

(iii) Congressional Mail Unit Index.

(iv) Air Detail Office Index.

(v) Anti-smuggling Index (general).

(vi) Anti-smuggling Information Centers Systems for Canadian and Mexican Borders.

(vii) Border Patrol Sectors General Index System.

(viii) Contact Index.

(ix) Criminal, Narcotic, Racketeer and Subversive Indexes.

(x) Enforcement Correspondence Control Index System.

(xi) Document Vendors and Alterers Index.

(xii) Informant Index.

(xiii) Suspect Third Party Index.

(xiv) Examination Correspondence Control Index.

(xv) Extension Training Enrollee Index.

(xvi) Intelligence Index.

(xvii) Naturalization and Citizenship Indexes.

(xviii) Personnel Investigations Unit Indexes.

(xix) Service Look-Out Subsystem.

(xx) White House and Attorney General Correspondence Control Index.

(xxi) Fraudulent Document Center Index.

(xxii) Emergency Reassignment Index.

(xxiii) Alien Documentation, Identification, and Telecommunication (ADIT) System.

(3) The Immigration and Naturalization Service "National Automated Immigration Lookout System (NAILS) JUSTICE/INS-032." The exemptions apply only to the extent that records in the system are subject to exemptions pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(2).

(b) Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:

(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting for disclosure pursuant to the routine uses published for these subsystems would permit the subject of a criminal or civil investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation and present a serious impediment to law enforcement.

(2) From subsection (c)(4) since an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), this subsection will not be applicable.

(3) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in these subsystems would inform the subject of a criminal or civil investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and present a serious impediment to law enforcement.

(4) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal or civil investigations, the Immigration and Naturalization Service often obtains information concerning the violation of laws other than those relating to violations over which INS has investigative jurisdiction. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that INS retain this information since it can aid in establishing patterns of criminal activity and provide valuable leads for those law enforcement agencies that are charged with enforcing other segments of the criminal law.

(5) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal or civil investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection or apprehension.

(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life or physical safety of confidential informants.

(7) From subsections (e)(4) (G) and (H) because these subsystems of records are exempt from individual access pursuant to subsection (j) of the Privacy Act of 1974.

(8) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment in reporting on investigations and impede the development of criminal intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.

(9) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the Immigration and Naturalization Service's ability to issue administrative subpoenas and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.

(10) From subsection (g) because these subsystems of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).

(11) In addition, these systems of records are exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G) and (H) to the extent they are subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). To permit access to records classified pursuant to Executive Order would violate the Executive Order protecting classified information.

(c) The Border Patrol Academy Index Subsystem is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) and (f).

(d) Exemptions for the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons.

(1) From subsection (d) because exemption is claimed only for those testing and examination materials used to determine an individual's qualifications for retention and promotion in the Immigration and Naturalization Service. This is necessary to protect the integrity of testing materials and to insure fair and uniform examinations.

(2) From subsection (f) because the subsystem of records has been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).

(e) The Orphan Petitioner Index and Files (Justice/INS-007) system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d). This exemption applies only to the extent that information in this system is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).

(f) Exemption from paragraph (d) of this section is claimed solely because of the possibility of receipt of classified information during the course of INS investigation of prospective adoptive parents.

(g) The Office of Internal Audit Investigations Index and Records (Justice/INS-002) system of records is exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5) and (8); and (g), but only to the extent that this system contains records within the scope of subsection (j)(2), and to the extent that records in the system are subject to exemption therefrom. In addition, this system of records is also exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from subsections (c)(3); (d); and (e)(1), but only to the extent that this system contains records within the scope of subsection (k)(2), and to the extent that records in the system are subject to exemption therefrom.

(h) The following justification apply to the exemptions from particular subsections:

(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting for disclosure could permit the subject of an actual or potential criminal or civil investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the existence and nature of the investigation, the fact that individuals are subjects of the investigation, and present a serious impediment to law enforcement.

(2) From subsection (c)(4) to the extent that the exemption from subsection (d) is applicable. Subsection (c)(4) will not be applicable to the extent that records in the system are properly withholdable under subsection (d).

(3) From the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system of records could inform the subject of a criminal or civil investigation of the existence of that investigation; of the nature and scope of the information and evidence obtained as to their activities; of the identity of confidential sources, witnesses and law enforcement personnel; and of information that may enable the subject to avoid detection or apprehension. Such disclosures would present a serious impediment to effective law enforcement where they prevent the successful completion of the investigation; endanger the physical safety of confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel; and/or lead to the improper influencing of witnesses, the destruction of evidence, or the fabrication of testimony. In addition, granting access to these records could result in a disclosure that would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of third parties. Amendment of the records would interfere with ongoing investigations and law enforcement activities and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.

(4) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal or civil investigations, the Immigration and Naturalization Service often obtains information concerning the violation of laws other than those relating to violations over which INS has investigative jurisdiction, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that INS retain this information since it can aid in establishing patterns of criminal activity and provide valuable leads for those law enforcement agencies that are charged with enforcing other segments of the criminal law.

(5) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection or apprehension.

(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment of criminal law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identify of confidential sources of information and endanger the life or physical safety of confidential informants.

(7) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for criminal law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment in reporting on investigations and impede the development of criminal intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.

(8) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to criminal law enforcement as this could interfere with the Immigration and Naturalization Service's ability to issue administrative subpoenas and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.

(9) From subsection (g) for those portions of this system of records that were compiled for criminal law enforcement purposes and which are subject to exemption from the access provisions of subsections (d) pursuant to subsection (j)(2).

(i) The Law Enforcement Support Center Database (LESC) (Justice/INS-023) system of records is exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections (c) (3) and (4); (d); (e) (1), (2), (3), (5), (8) and (g); but only to the extent that this system contains records within the scope of subsection (j)(2), and to the extent that records in the system are subject to exemption therefrom. In addition, this system of records is also exempt in part under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from subsections (c)(3); (d); and (e)(1), but only to the extent that this system contains records within the scope of subsection (k)(2), and to the extent that records in the system are subject to exemption therefrom.

(j) The following justifications apply to the exemptions from particular subsections:

(1) From subsection (c)(3) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(2) From subsection (c)(4) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(3) From the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system of records could inform the subject of a criminal or civil investigation of the existence of that investigation; of the nature and scope of the information and evidence obtained as to their activities; and of information that may enable the subject to avoid detection or apprehension. Such disclosures would present a serious impediment to effective law enforcement where they prevent the successful completion of the investigation or other law enforcement operation such as deportation or exclusion. In addition, granting access to these records could result in a disclosure that would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of third parties. Amendment of the records would interfere with ongoing investigations and law enforcement activities and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.

(4) From subsection (e)(1) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.

(5) From subsection (e)(2) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(5) of this section.

(6) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to criminal law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation.

(7) From subsection (e)(5) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(7) of this section.

(8) From subsection (e)(8) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(8) of this section.

(9) From subsection (g) to the extent that this system is exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).

(k) The Attorney/Representative Complaint/Petition File (JUSTICE/INS-022) system of records is exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8); and (g); but only to the extent that this system contains records within the scope of subsection (j)(2), and to the extent that records in this system are subject to exemption therefrom. In addition, this system of records is also exempt in part under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(2) from subsections (c)(3); (d); and (e)(1), but only to the extent that this system contains records within the scope of subsection (k)(2), and to the extent that records in this system are subject to exemption therefrom.

(l) The following justifications apply to the exemptions from particular subsections:

(1) From subsection (c)(3) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(2) From subsection (c)(4) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(3) From the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.

(4) From subsection (e)(1) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.

(5) From subsection (e)(2) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(5) of this section.

(6) From subsection (e)(3) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(6) of this section.

(7) From subsection (e)(5) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(7) of this section.

(8) From subsection (e)(8) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(8) of this section.

(9) From subsection (g) to the extent that the system is exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).

(m) The Worksite Enforcement Activity and Records Index (LYNX) (JUSTICE/INS-025) system of records is exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8); and (g); but only to the extent that this system contains records within the scope of subsection (j)(2), and to the extent that records in this system are subject to exemption therefrom. In addition, this system of records is also exempt in part under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from subsections (c)(3); (d); and (e)(1), but only to the extent that this system contains records within the scope of subsection (k)(2), and to the extent that records in this system are subject to exemption therefrom.

(n) The following justifications apply to the exemptions from particular subsections:

(1) From subsection (c)(3) for reasons started in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(2) From subsection (c)(4) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(3) From the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.

(4) From subsection (e)(1) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.

(5) From subsection (e)(2) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(5) of this section.

(6) From subsection (e)(3) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(6) of this section.

(7) From subsection (e)(5) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(7) of this section.

(8) From subsection (e)(8) for reasons stated in paragraph (h)(8) of this section.

(9) From subsection (g) to the extent that the system is exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).
