
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 19 - USE OF PENALTY MAIL IN THE LOCATION AND RECOVERY OF MISSING CHILDREN
#### ยง 19.6 Responsibility of DOJ organizational units for program implementation and implementation procedures.

(a) The General Services Staff, Justice Management Division (JMD), will be the liaison between the National Center and the principal organizational units of the Department. The General Services Staff, JMD shall be responsible for:

(1) Developing and disseminating Departmentwide guidelines and monitoring the implementation of the Missing Children Penalty Mail Program.

(2) Ordering camera-ready copies and other photographic and biographical material from the National Center, using the format established by the Center, and distributing the material within the Department of Justice.

(3) Immediately notifying DOJ components, in writing, of the need to use or withdraw from circulation, within 90 days, penalty mail envelopes, inserts and other material related to a recovered child or child whose parent(s) or guardian has withdrawn consent to use the photograph and biographical information. See 28 CFR 0.1, Organizational Structure of the Department of Justice, for a listing of DOJ principal organizational units designated as components.

(4) Collecting, analyzing and consolidating cost, mail volume data and other program related information and reporting to OJJDP, by June 30, 1987, on DOJ's experience in implementing the program.

(5) Conducting biannual meetings with selected components contacts to discuss current plans and solicit suggestions and/or recommendations for innovative and cost effective techniques to enhance the success of the program.

(6) Providing guidance and assistance to components in internal program development and implementation.

(7) Maintaining a list of DOJ personnel assigned to serve as Missing Children Program Coordinators for the components.

(b) Bureau Mail Managers and components Executive/Administrative Officers shall be responsible for:

(1) Establishing and implementing internal procedures and guidelines for the dissemination and use of missing children photographs and biographical information on or in domestic penalty mail. For example, the Bureau Mail Manager will provide guidance to Bureau offices on the types of missing children information which are available for use on or in penalty mail and establish procedures for obtaining and using the information, as appropriate.

(2) Identifying and reviewing publications and other Bureau media for suitable use in disseminating missing children photographs and information and obtaining approval for its use from the originating office.

(3) Ensuring that all printed penalty mail envelopes, inserts, and other penalty mail material containing photographs and biographical information on a missing child are used or removed from circulation or other use within 90 days from the date of DOJ notification by the National Center to withdraw material for that child.

(4) Designating Missing Children Coordinator(s) at headquarters and in each component and field office participating in the program.

(5) Arranging for printing and/or acquisition through designated channels, adequate supplies of inserts or penalty mail envelopes and other materials containing photographs and biographical data related to missing children.

(6) Collecting and reporting to the General Services Staff, Justice Management Division, the information identified in ยง 19.5 of this part as required for inclusion in the DOJ's consolidated report to OJJDP.

(c) Component and Bureau Missing Children Program Coordinators shall be responsible for:

(1) Insuring that adequate supplies of envelopes or inserts are ordered, received or disseminated for use within the organizational unit or requesting camera-ready copy for printing from the DOJ contact person using a written form to be established by DOJ Guideline.

(2) Ensuring that the acquisition and use of missing children information through inserts or printing of these materials in publications or on envelopes is approved by appropriate authority within the organizational unit.

(3) Maintaining and disseminating supplies of inserts, envelopes, and camera-ready copy (for publications) to personnel who prepare domestic penalty mail for dispatch through the U.S. Postal Service.

(4) Notifying employees within their organizational unit to use or remove from circulation all printed penalty mail envelopes, inserts, and other material containing a photograph and biographical information on a missing child within 90 days from the date of DOJ notification by the National Center to withdraw material for that child.

(5) Serving as the central point of contact within their organizations for all matters relating to the Missing Children Penalty Mail Program.

(6) Collecting and reporting essential management information relating to the implemention of this program within their organizational unit and reporting this information to the appropriate Bureau Mail Manager or component Executive/Administrative Officer.

(d) Missing children pictures and biographical information shall not be:

(1) Printed on penalty mail envelopes, inserts, or other materials which are ordered and/or stocked in quantities which represent more than a 90 day supply.

(2) Printed on blank pages or covers of publications that may be included in the Superintendent of Documents' Sales Program or are to be distributed to depository Libraries.

(3) Inserted in any envelope and/or publication the contents of which may be construed to be inappropriate for association with the Missing Children Penalty Mail Program.

(e) Each component shall provide the General Services Staff, Justice Management Division, with the name(s), telephone number(s) and mailing address(es) of each designated Missing Children Program Coordinator within 30 days of the effective date of this regulation.

(f) Each component shall submit a quarterly report to the General Services Staff, Justice Management Division, within 5 days after the close of each Fiscal Year quarter providing the specific information identified in ยง 19.5 concerning implementation and participation in the program.
