
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart Q - Bureau of Prisons
##### ยง 0.95 General functions.

The Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall direct all activities of the Bureau of Prisons including:

(a) Management and regulation of all Federal penal and correctional institutions (except military or naval institutions), and prison commissaries.

(b) Provision of suitable quarters for, and safekeeping, care, and subsistence of, all persons charged with or convicted of offenses against the United States or held as witnesses or otherwise.

(c) Provision for the protection, instruction, and discipline of all persons charged with or convicted of offenses against the United States.

(d) Classification, commitment, control, or treatment of persons committed to the custody of the Attorney General.

(e) Payment of rewards with respect to escaped Federal prisoners (18 U.S.C. 3059).

(f) Certification with respect to the insanity or mental incompetence of a prisoner whose sentence is about to expire pursuant to section 4247 of title 18 of the U.S. Code.

(g) Entering into contracts with State or territorial officials for the custody, care, subsistence, education, treatment, and training of State or territorial prisoners, upon certification with respect to the availability of proper and adequate treatment facilities and personnel, pursuant to section 5003 of title 18 of the U.S. Code.

(h) Conduct of studies and the preparation and submission of reports and recommendations to committing courts respecting disposition of cases in which defendants have been committed for such purposes pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4205(c).

(i) Conduct and prepare, or cause to be conducted and prepared, studies and submit reports to the court and the attorneys with respect to disposition of cases in which juveniles have been committed, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 5037, and to contract with public or private agencies or individuals or community-based facilities for the observation and study and the custody and care of juveniles, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 5040.

(j) Observation, conduct of studies, and preparation of reports in cases in which youth offenders have been committed by the courts for such purposes pursuant to section 5010(e) of title 18 of the United States Code.

(k) Conduct of examinations to determine whether an offender is an addict and is likely to be rehabilitated through treatment, as well as the preparation and submission of reports to committing courts, pursuant to section 4252 of title 18 of the United States Code.

(l) Transmittal of reports of boards of examiners and certificates to clerks of the district courts pursuant to section 4245 of title 18 of the U.S. Code.

(m) Providing technical assistance to State and local governments in the improvement of their correctional systems (18 U.S.C. 4042).
