
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart Q - Bureau of Prisons
##### ยง 0.96c Cost of incarceration.

(a) The Attorney General is required to establish and collect a fee to cover the cost of one year of incarceration. These provisions apply to any person who is convicted in a United States District Court and committed to the custody of the Attorney General, and who begins service of sentence on or after December 27, 1994. For the purposes of this subpart, revocation of parole or supervised release shall be treated as a separate period of incarceration for which a fee may be imposed.

(b) The fee to cover the costs of incarceration shall be calculated by dividing the number representing the obligation encountered in Bureau of Prisons facilities (excluding activation costs) by the number of inmate-days incurred for the year, and by then multiplying the quotient by 365. The resulting figure represents the average cost to the Bureau for confining an inmate for one year.

(c) The Director of the Bureau of Prisons is delegated the authority to collect the fee to cover the cost of incarceration from inmates committed to the custody of the Attorney General and to promulgate all regulations concerning the collection of the fee.

(d) The Director shall review and determine the amount of the fee not less than annually in accordance with the formula set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. The Director shall publish each year's fee as a Notice in the
