
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 20 - CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION SYSTEMS
#### Subpart B - State and Local Criminal History Record Information Systems
##### ยง 20.23 Documentation: Approval by OJARS.

Within 90 days of the receipt of the plan, OJARS shall approve or disapprove the adequacy of the provisions of the plan and certification. Evaluation of the plan by OJARS will be based upon whether the procedures set forth will accomplish the required objectives. The evaluation of the certification(s) will be based upon whether a good faith effort has been shown to initiate and/or further compliance with the plan and regulations. All procedures in the approved plan must be fully operational and implemented by March 1, 1978. A final certification shall be submitted on March 1, 1978.

(a) July 31, 1978-Submission of certificate of compliance with:

(1) Individual access, challenge, and review requirements;

(2) Administrative security;

(3) Physical security to the maximum extent feasible.

(b) Thirty days after the end of a State's next legislative session-Submission to OJARS of a description of State policy on dissemination of criminal history record information.

(c) Six months after the end of a State's legislative session-Submission to OJARS of a brief and concise description of standards and operating procedures to be followed by all criminal justice agencies covered by OJARS regulations in complying with the State policy on dissemination.

(d) Eighteen months after the end of a State's legislative session-Submission to OJARS of a certificate attesting to the conduct of an audit of the State central repository and of a random number of other criminal justice agencies in compliance with OJARS regulations.
