
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 25 - DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE INFORMATION SYSTEMS
#### Subpart A - The National Instant Criminal Background Check System
##### ยง 25.6 Accessing records in the system.
###### POC Determination Messages.

(h)POCs shall transmit electronic NICS transaction determination messages to the FBI for the following transactions: open transactions that are not resolved before the end of the operational day on which the check is requested; denied transactions; transactions reported to the NICS as open and later changed to proceed; and denied transactions that have been overturned. The FBI shall provide POCs with an electronic capability to transmit this information. These electronic messages shall be provided to the NICS immediately upon communicating the POC determination to the FFL. For transactions where a determination has not been communicated to the FFL, the electronic messages shall be communicated no later than the end of the operational day on which the check was initiated. With the exception of permit checks, newly created POC NICS transactions that are not followed by a determination message (deny or open) before the end of the operational day on which they were initiated will be assumed to have resulted in a proceed notification to the FFL. The information provided in the POC determination messages will be maintained in the NICS Audit Log described in ยง 25.9(b). The NICS will destroy its records regarding POC determinations in accordance with the procedures detailed in ยง 25.9(b).
