
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart R - Drug Enforcement Administration
##### Appendix to Subpart R of Part 0 - Redelegation of Functions
###### Promulgation of regulations.

The Deputy Assistant Administrator of the DEA Office of Diversion Control is authorized to exercise all necessary functions with respect to the promulgation and implementation of the following regulations published in chapter II, title 21, Code of Federal Regulations:

(a) Part 1301, incident to the registration of manufacturers, distributors, and dispensers of controlled substances, except that final orders in connection with suspension, denial or revocation of registration shall be made by the Deputy Administrator of DEA.

(b) Part 1302 relating to labelling and packaging requirements for controlled substances.

(c) Part 1304 relating to records and reports of registrants.

(d) Part 1305 relating to order forms.

(e) Part 1306 relating to prescriptions, except provisions relating to dispensing of narcotic drugs for maintenance purposes.

(f) Part 1307, title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, relating to miscellaneous provisions, except § 1307.31 concerning special exempt persons.

(g) The following sections of part 1308: §§ 1308.21 and 1308.22 relating to excluded nonnarcotic substances; §§ 1308.23 and 1308.24 relating to exempt chemical preparations; §§ 1308.25 and 1308.26 relating to excluded veterinary anabolic steroid implant products; §§ 1308.31 and 1308.32 relating to exempted prescription products; and §§ 1308.33 and 1308.34 relating to exempt anabolic steroid products, except that any final order following a contested proposed rulemaking shall be issued by the Deputy Administrator of DEA.

(h) Part 1309, incident to the registration of manufacturers, distributors, importers and exporters of List I chemicals, except that final orders in connection with suspension, denial or revocation of registration shall be made by the Deputy Administrator of DEA.

(i) Part 1310, relating to records, reports and identification of parties to transactions in listed chemicals and certain machinery, but not including the authority to add and delete listed chemicals pursuant to 21 CFR 1310.02.

(j) Part 1311 relating to registration of importers and exporters of controlled substances, except that final orders in connection with suspension, denial or revocation of registration shall be made by the Deputy Administrator of DEA.

(k) Part 1312 relating to importation and exportation of controlled substances, except that all final orders following a contested proposed rulemaking regarding the denial of an application for an import, export or transshipment permit shall be made by the Deputy Administrator of DEA.

(l) Part 1313, relating to the importation and exportation of precursors and essential chemicals, but not including the authority to suspend shipments under 21 CFR 1313.41.

(m) Part 1314, incident to the retail sale of scheduled listed chemical products by regulated sellers and distributors required to submit reports under section 310(b)(3) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 830(b)(3)), except that final orders in connection with suspension or revocation of the regulated seller's or mail order distributor's right to sell scheduled listed chemical products shall be made by the Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration.
