
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 26 - DEATH SENTENCES PROCEDURES
#### Subpart A - Implementation of Death Sentences in Federal Cases
##### ยง 26.4 Other execution procedures.

Except to the extent a court orders otherwise:

(a) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or his designee shall notify the prisoner under sentence of death of the manner of execution and the date designated for execution at least 20 days in advance, except when the date follows a postponement of fewer than 20 days of a previously scheduled and noticed execution, in which case the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or his designee shall notify the prisoner as soon as possible. If applicable law provides that the prisoner may choose among multiple manners of execution, the Director or his designee shall notify the prisoner of that option.

(b) Beginning seven days before the designated date of execution, the prisoner shall have access only to his spiritual advisers (not to exceed two), his defense attorneys, members of his family, and the officers and employees of the institution designated in ยง 26.3(a)(2). Upon approval of the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or his designee, the prisoner may be granted access to such other persons as the prisoner may request.

(c) In addition to the Marshal, the following persons shall be present at the execution:

(1) Necessary personnel selected by the Marshal and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or his designee;

(2) Those attorneys of the Department of Justice whom the Deputy Attorney General determines are necessary;

(3) Not more than the following numbers of persons selected by the prisoner:

(i) One spiritual adviser;

(ii) Two defense attorneys; and

(iii) Three adult friends or relatives; and

(4) Not more than the following numbers of persons selected by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or his designee:

(i) Eight citizens; and

(ii) Ten representatives of the press.

(d) No other person shall be present at the execution, unless leave for such person's presence is granted by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. No person younger than 18 years of age shall witness the execution.

(e) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or his designee should notify those individuals described in paragraph (c) of this section as soon as practicable before the designated time of execution.

(f) No photographic or other visual or audio recording of the execution shall be permitted.

(g) After the execution has been carried out, qualified personnel selected by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or his designee shall conduct an examination of the body of the prisoner to determine that death has occurred and shall inform the Marshal and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons or his designee of his determination. Upon notification of the prisoner's death, the Marshal shall ensure that appropriate notice of the sentence's implementation is filed with the sentencing court.

(h) The remains of the prisoner shall be disposed of according to procedures established by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons.
