
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 31 - OJJDP GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart A - Formula Grants
##### Juvenile Justice Act Requirements
###### ยง 31.303 Substantive requirements.
####### Separation.

(d)(1) Pursuant to section 223(a)(12) of the JJDP Act the State shall:

(i) Describe its plan and procedure, covering the three-year planning cycle, for assuring that the requirements of this section are met. Separation must be accomplished architecturally or through policies and procedures in all secure areas of the facility which include, but are not limited to, such areas as admissions, sleeping, and shower and toilet areas. Brief and inadvertent sight or sound contact between juveniles alleged to be or found to be delinquent or those within the purview of 34 U.S.C. 11133(a)(11)(A) and adult inmates in secure areas of a facility that are not dedicated to use by juveniles and which are nonresidential, which may include dining, recreational, educational, vocational, health care, sally ports or other entry areas, and passageways (hallways), would not require a facility or the State to document or report such contact as a violation. However, any contact in a dedicated juvenile area, including any residential area of a secure facility, between juveniles in a secure custody status and adult inmates would be a reportable violation.

(ii) In those instances where accused juvenile criminal-type offenders are authorized to be temporarily detained in facilities where adults are confined, the State must set forth the procedures for assuring no sight or sound contact between such juveniles and adult inmates.

(iii) Describe the barriers which may hinder the separation of alleged or adjudicated criminal type offenders, status offenders and non-offenders from adult inmates in any particular jail, lockup, detention or correctional facility.

(iv) Those States which, based upon the most recently submitted monitoring report, have been found to be in compliance with section 223(a)(12) may, in lieu of addressing paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, provide an assurance that adequate plans and resources are available to maintain compliance.

(v) Assure that adjudicated delinquents are not reclassified administratively and transferred to an adult (criminal) correctional authority to avoid the intent of separating juveniles from adult criminals in jails or correctional facilities. A State is not prohibited from placing or transferring an alleged or adjudicated delinquent who reaches the State's age of full criminal responsibility to an adult facility when required or authorized by State law. However, the administrative transfer, without statutory direction or authorization, of a juvenile offender to an adult correctional authority, or a transfer within a mixed juvenile and adult facility for placement with adult criminals, either before or after a juvenile reaches the age of full criminal responsibility, is prohibited. A State is also precluded from transferring adult offenders to a juvenile correctional authority for placement in a juvenile facility. This neither prohibits nor restricts the waiver or transfer of a juvenile to criminal court for prosecution, in accordance with State law, for a criminal felony violation, nor the detention or confinement of a waived or transferred criminal felony violator in an adult facility.

(2) [Reserved]
