
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart T - United States Marshals Service
##### ยง 0.111 General functions.
###### et seq.

(c) Provisions for the health, safety, and welfare of Government witnesses and their families, including the psychological well-being and social adjustment of such persons, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3521,, and issuance of necessary regulations for this purpose on behalf of the Attorney General.

(d) Administration and implementation of courtroom security requirements for the Federal judiciary.

(e) Protection of Federal jurists, court officers, and other threatened persons in the interests of justice where criminal intimidation impedes the functioning of the Federal judicial process.

(f) Provision of assistance in the protection of Federal property and buildings.

(g) Direction and supervision of a training school for United States Marshals Service personnel.

(h) Disbursement of appropriated funds to satisfy Government obligations incurred in the administration of justice pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 571.

(i) Maintenance of custody, management control, and disposal of property and money seized or forfeited pursuant to any law enforced or administered by the Department of Justice, when the property is seized by the U.S. Marshals Service or delivered to the U.S. Marshals Service in accordance with regulations; and administer the Department of Justice Asset Forfeiture Fund.

(j) Receipt, processing and transportation of prisoners held in the custody of a marshal or transported by the U.S. Marshals Service under cooperative or intergovernmental agreements.

(k) Sustention of custody of Federal prisoners from the time of their arrest by a marshal or their remand to a marshal by the court, until the prisoner is committed by order of the court to the custody of the Attorney General for the service of sentence, otherwise released from custody by the court, or returned to the custody of the U.S. Parole Commission or the Bureau of Prisons.

(l) Coordination and direction of the relationship of the offices of U.S. Marshals with the other organizational units of the Department of Justice.

(m) Approval of staffing requirements of the offices of U.S. Marshals.

(n) Investigation of alleged improper conduct on the part of U.S. Marshals Service personnel.

(o) Acquisition of adequate and suitable detention space, health care and other services and materials required to support prisoners under the custody of the U.S. Marshal who are not housed in Federal facilities.

(p) Approval of "other necessary expenditures in the line of duty" of U.S. Marshals and Deputy U.S. Marshals under 28 U.S.C. 567(3).

(q) Exercising the power and authority vested in the Attorney General under 28 U.S.C. 510 to conduct and investigate fugitive matters, domestic and foreign, involving escaped federal prisoners, probation, parole, mandatory release, and bond default violators.
