
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 31 - OJJDP GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart B - Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grants
##### ยง 31.503 Notice of proposed use of funds.

The mechanism for a State to report on the proposed use of funds by the State or by a subgrantee unit of local government is by electronic submission of a "Follow Up Information Form" to be provided to each participating State. The purpose of this report is for the State to provide assurances to OJJDP that funds expended by the State and its subgrantee units of local government will be used for authorized program purpose areas. Although no actual program descriptions will be required, information about the distribution of funds among the authorized program purpose areas must be provided. Upon receipt and review of the "Follow Up Information Form" by OJJDP, States may obligate program funds retained for expenditure at the State level. Similarly, the State shall require that each recipient unit of local government submit its proposed use of non-administrative funds to the State prior to drawdown of subgrant funds to implement local programs and projects. Upon receipt and review of the local unit of government's proposed fund use, the State shall authorize the local unit of government to obligate local subgrant funds. The State shall electronically submit a copy of the local subgrant information to OJJDP, as provided in the award package, within 30 days of the date that the local unit of government is authorized to obligate program funds under its subgrant award.
