
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart U-3 - Office of the Federal Detention Trustee
##### ยง 0.123 Federal Detention Trustee.

(a) The Office of the Federal Detention Trustee shall be headed by a Detention Trustee appointed by the Attorney General. The Detention Trustee shall exercise all powers and functions authorized by law related to the detention of Federal prisoners in non-Federal institutions or otherwise in the custody of the United States Marshals Service in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 530C(b)(7).

(b) The Detention Trustee shall:

(1) Manage funds appropriated to the Department in the exercise of such detention functions.

(2) Oversee the construction of detention facilities or housing related to such detention.

(3) Set policy regarding such detention, and perform such functions as may be necessary for the effective policy-level coordination of detention operations.

(4) Oversee contracts for detention services, including, when the Detention Trustee deems appropriate, negotiating purchases and entering into contracts and intergovernmental agreements for detention services, and making required determinations and findings for the acquisition of services.

(5) Manage the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System.

(c) This regulation sets forth the general functions of the Detention Trustee solely for the purpose of internal Department of Justice guidance. It is not intended to, does not, and may not be relied upon to create any rights, substantive or procedural, that are enforceable at law by any party in any matter, civil or criminal.
