
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 32 - PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS' DEATH, DISABILITY, AND EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE BENEFIT CLAIMS
#### Subpart C - Disability Benefit Claims
##### ยง 32.28 Reconsideration of negative disability finding.
###### e.g.

(1) If or after such reconsideration is rendered moot (, by the final denial of the claim on other grounds, without possibility of further administrative or judicial recourse); or

(2) If a request for a Hearing Officer determination has been filed in timely fashion with respect to such finding.

(c) Unless, for good cause shown, the Director grants a waiver, upon the making of a motion under ยง 32.27, reconsideration of the negative disability finding described in that section shall be stayed for three years. Upon the conclusion of the stay, the claimant shall have not more than six years to file evidence with the PSOB Office in support of his claimed disability.

(d) Upon a claimant's failure (without reasonable justification or excuse) to file in timely fashion evidence pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the Director may, at his discretion, deem the motion for reconsideration to be abandoned, as though never filed. Not less than thirty-three days prior thereto, the PSOB Office shall serve the claimant with notice of the Director's intention to exercise such discretion.

(e) No negative disability finding described in ยง 32.27 shall be reversed unless a copy (which shall be necessary, but not sufficient, for such reversal) of each federal, State, and local income tax return filed by or on behalf of the claimant from the year before the date of the motion for reconsideration under that section to the date of reversal is filed with the PSOB Office.

(f) Upon its affirming or reversing a negative disability finding described in ยง 32.27, the PSOB Office shall serve notice of the same upon the claimant. In the event of an affirmance, such notice shall-

(1) Specify the factual findings and legal conclusions that support it; and

(2) Provide information as to requesting a Hearing Officer determination of the disability finding.
