
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 33 - BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart A - Criminal Justice Block Grants
##### Purposes of Block Grant Funds
###### ยง 33.31 Eligible purposes and programs.
####### Programs.,Certified Programs).,Program Briefs

(b)The Bureau of Justice Assistance has certified that specific programs meet these purposes, conform with the program criteria, and are eligible for block grant support. (See ยง 33.32 of the regulations,These programs are described inthat are available from the Bureau of Justice Assistance. The list of certified programs will be expanded in the future based on the statutory criteria to permit a more complete coverage of each of the purposes. This certification will be done in consultation with state and local governments and published in theStates and localities may use block funds to implement one or more of these certified programs, if they agree to comply with the critical elements set forth in ยง 33.32 of these regulations, and to provide data on the performance indicators listed. States and localities selecting these programs may identify the certified program in their application by name only, without further description. Programs other than those certified by the Bureau of Justice Assistance may be proposed by the state and/or units of local government and approved for funding by the Bureau. To obtain approval to fund a proposed program, the applicant must provide in its application a description of the program and evidence that it meets the statutory program criteria. The application requirements for program approval are contained in Subpart E-Application Requirements.
