
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 33 - BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart A - Criminal Justice Block Grants
##### Application Requirements
###### ยง 33.41 Application content.
####### Programs.

(b)Applications must set forth programs and projects covering a two-year period which meet the purposes and criteria of section 403(a) of the Justice Assistance Act and these regulations. Applications must be amended annually, if new programs or projects are to be added or if the programs or projects contained in the approved application are not implemented. The application must designate which statutory purpose the program or project is intended to achieve, identify the state agency or unit of local government that will implement the program or project, and provide the estimated funding level for the program or project including the amount and source of cash matching funds. Section 405 of the Act.

(1) Section 33.32 of the regulations identifies specific programs which have been certified by the Bureau to meet the requirements of the Act. Approval will be given for implementation of any of these programs, if the applicant agrees to include all the critical elements in the program design. An applicant need only identify the program, which purpose it is intended to achieve, the state agency or unit of local government which will implement it, the funding level (including amount and source of match).

(2) Applicants may request approval of programs other than one of those certified by the Bureau. The application must contain, in addition to the information in ยง 33.41(b), a description of the program (including its critical elements and performance indicators) and evidence that it meets the criteria of offering a high probability of improving the functions of the criminal justice system. Evidence may include, but is not necessarily limited to, the results of any evaluations of previous tests or demonstrations of the program concept.

(3) Applicants may also request approval to expend up to 10 per centum of their funds for programs which the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance has established as priorities for discretionary grants under section 503 of the Act, or which are innovative programs that are deemed by the Director as likely to prove successful. For a program the same as a discretionary program, the applicant may identify it by name only and provide the information required under ยง 33.41(b)(1) of the regulations. For an innovative program, the applicant must describe the program (including its critical elements and performance indicators) and provide evidence that it is likely to prove successful.
