
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart Y - Authority To Compromise and Close Civil Claims and Responsibility for Judgments, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures
##### Appendix to Subpart Y of Part 0 - Redelegations of Authority To Compromise and Close Civil Claims

By virtue of the authority vested in me by part 0 of title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations, particularly §§ 0.45, 0.160, 0.164, and 0.168, it is hereby ordered as follows:

(a) Delegation to Deputy Assistant Attorneys General. The Deputy Assistant Attorneys General are hereby delegated all the power and authority of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division, including with respect to the institution of suits, the acceptance or rejection of compromise offers, the administrative settlement of claims, and the closing of claims or cases, unless any such authority or power is required by law to be exercised by the Assistant Attorney General personally or has been specifically delegated to another Department official.

(b) Delegation to United States Attorneys; Branch, Office and Staff Directors; and Attorneys-in-Charge of Field Offices. Subject to the limitations imposed by 28 CFR 0.160(d) and 0.164, and sections 1(e) and 4(b) of this directive, and the authority of the Solicitor General set forth in 28 CFR 0.163, United States Attorneys; Branch, Office, and Staff Directors; and Attorneys-in-Charge of Field Offices, with respect to matters assigned or delegated to their respective components, are hereby delegated the authority to:

(1) Accept offers in compromise of claims asserted by the United States in all cases in which the gross amount of the original claim does not exceed $10,000,000;

(2) Accept offers in compromise of, or settle administratively, claims against the United States in all cases in which the principal amount of the proposed settlement does not exceed $1,000,000;

(3) Reject any offers in compromise; and

(4) Close any affirmative claim or case where the gross amount of the original claim does not exceed $10,000,000.

(c) Subject to the limitations imposed by sections 1(e), 4(b), and 5 of this directive, United States Attorneys, Directors, and Attorneys-in-Charge are hereby delegated the authority to:

(1) File suits, counterclaims, and cross-claims, or take any other action necessary to protect the interests of the United States in all routine nonmonetary cases, in all routine loan collection and foreclosure cases, and in other monetary claims or cases where the gross amount of the original claim does not exceed $10,000,000. Such actions in nonmonetary cases which are other than routine will be submitted for the approval of the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division; and,

(2) Issue subpoenas, civil investigative demands, and any other compulsory process.

(d) United States Attorneys may redelegate in writing the above-conferred compromise and suit authority to Assistant United States Attorneys who supervise other Assistant United States Attorneys who handle civil litigation.

(e) Limitations on delegations.

(1) The authority to compromise cases, settle claims administratively, file suits, counterclaims, and cross-claims, to close claims or cases, or take any other action necessary to protect the interests of the United States, delegated by paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, may not be exercised, and the matter shall be submitted for resolution to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, when:

(i) For any reason, the proposed action, as a practical matter, will control or adversely influence the disposition of other claims totaling more than the respective amounts designated in the above paragraphs.

(ii) Because a novel question of law or a question of policy is presented, or for any other reason, the proposed action should, in the opinion of the officer or employee concerned, receive the personal attention of the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division.

(iii) The agency or agencies involved are opposed to the proposed action. The views of an agency must be solicited with respect to any significant proposed action if it is a party, if it has asked to be consulted with respect to any such proposed action, or if such proposed action in a case would adversely affect any of its policies.

(iv) The United States Attorney involved is opposed to the proposed action and requests that the matter be submitted to the Assistant Attorney General for decision.

(v) The case is on appeal, except as determined by the Director of the Appellate Staff.

(2) In fraud or False Claims Act cases and matters, for reasons similar to those listed in sub-section l(e)(l)(i) through l(e)(l)(iii) above, the Director of the Fraud Section of the Commercial Litigation Branch, after consultation with the United States Attorney, may determine that a case or matter will not be delegated to the United States Attorney, but personally or jointly handled, or monitored, by the Civil Division.

(a) Whenever, pursuant to the authority delegated by this Directive, an official of the Civil Division or a United States Attorney accepts a compromise, closes a claim or files a suit or claim, a memorandum fully explaining the basis for the action taken shall be executed and placed in the file. In the case of matters compromised, closed, or filed by United States Attorneys, a copy of the memorandum must, upon request therefrom, be sent to the appropriate Branch or Office of the Civil Division.

(b) The compromising of cases or closing of claims or the filing of suits for claims, which a United States Attorney is not authorized to approve, shall be referred to the appropriate Branch or Office within the Civil Division, for decision by the Assistant Attorney General or the appropriate authorized person within the Civil Division. The referral memorandum should contain a detailed description of the matter, the United States Attorney's recommendation, the agency's recommendation where applicable, and a full statement of the reasons therefor.

Claims arising out of judgments in favor of the United States which cannot be permanently closed as uncollectible may be returned to the referring Federal agency for servicing and surveillance whenever all conditions set forth in USAM 4-3.230 have been met.

(a) Direct reference to United States Attorneys by agencies. The following civil actions under the jurisdiction of the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, may be referred by the agency concerned directly to the appropriate United States Attorney for handling in trial courts, subject to the limitations imposed by paragraph (b) of this section. United States Attorneys are hereby delegated the authority to take all necessary steps to protect the interests of the United States, without prior approval of the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, or his representatives, subject to the limitations set forth in section 1(e) of this directive. Agencies may, however, if special handling is desired, refer these cases to the Civil Division. Also, when constitutional questions or other significant issues arise in the course of such litigation, or when an appeal is taken by any party, the Civil Division should be consulted.

(1) Money claims by the United States where the gross amount of the original claim does not exceed $10,000,000.

(2) Single family dwelling house foreclosures arising out of loans made or insured by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Veterans Affairs, or the Farm Service Agency.
