
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart Y - Authority To Compromise and Close Civil Claims and Responsibility for Judgments, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures
##### Appendix to Subpart Y of Part 0 - Redelegations of Authority To Compromise and Close Civil Claims
###### et seq.

(13) Cases referred by the United States Postal Service for injunctive relief under the nonmailable matter laws, 39 U.S.C. 3001

(b) Cases not covered. Regardless of the amount in controversy (unless otherwise specified), the following matters normally will not be delegated to United States Attorneys for handling but will be personally or jointly handled or monitored by the appropriate Branch or Office within the Civil Division:

(1) Cases in the Court of Federal Claims.

(2) Cases within the jurisdiction of the Commercial Litigation Branch involving patents, trademarks, copyrights, etc.

(3) Cases before the United States Court of International Trade.

(4) Any case involving bribery, conflict of interest, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of employment contract, or exploitation of public office.

(5) Any case involving vessel-caused pollution in navigable waters.

(6) Cases on appeal, except as determined by the Director of the Appellate Staff.

(7) Any case involving litigation in a foreign court.

(8) Criminal proceedings arising under statutes enforced by the Food and Drug Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (relating to odometer tampering), except as determined by the Director of the Consumer Protection Branch.

(9) Nonmonetary civil cases, including injunction suits, declaratory judgment actions, and applications for inspection warrants, and cases seeking civil penalties where the gross amount of the original claim exceeds $10,000,000.

(10) Cases arising under the statutes listed in 28 CFR 0.45(j), except as determined by the Director of the Consumer Protection Branch.

(11) Administrative claims arising under the Federal Tort Claims Act.

Authority relating to Civil Investigative Demands issued under the False Claims Act is hereby delegated to United States Attorneys in cases that are delegated or assigned as monitored to their respective components. In accordance with guidelines provided by the Assistant Attorney General, each United States Attorney must provide notice and a report of Civil Investigative Demands issued by the United States Attorney. Authority relating to Civil Investigative Demands issued under the False Claims Act in cases that are jointly or personally handled by the Civil Division is hereby delegated to the Director of the Fraud Section of the Commercial Litigation Branch. When a case is jointly handled by the Civil Division and a United States Attorney's Office, the Director of the Fraud Section will issue a Civil Investigative Demand only after requesting the United States Attorney's recommendation.

All final judicial decisions adverse to the Government, other than bankruptcy court decisions except as provided herein, involving any direct reference or delegated case must be reported promptly to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, attention Director, Appellate Staff. Consult title 2 of the United States Attorney's Manual for procedures and time limitations. An appeal of such a decision, as well as an appeal of an adverse decision by a district court or bankruptcy appellate panel reviewing a bankruptcy court decision or a direct appeal of an adverse bankruptcy court decision to a court of appeals, cannot be taken without approval of the Solicitor General. Until the Solicitor General has made a decision whether an appeal will be taken, the Government attorney handling the case must take all necessary procedural actions to preserve the Government's right to take an appeal, including filing a protective notice of appeal when the time to file a notice of appeal is about to expire and the Solicitor General has not yet made a decision. Nothing in the foregoing directive affects this obligation.

(a) For purposes of this directive, in the case of claims involving only civil penalties, other than claims defined in 28 CFR 0.169(b), the phrase "gross amount of the original claim" shall mean the maximum amount of penalties sought.

(b) For purposes of this directive, in the case of claims asserted in bankruptcy proceedings, the phrase "gross amount of the original claim" shall mean liquidation value. Liquidation value is the forced sale value of the collateral, if any, securing the claim(s) plus the dividend likely to be paid for the unsecured portion of the claim(s) in an actual or hypothetical liquidation of the bankruptcy estate.

This directive supersedes Civil Division Directive No. 1-10 regarding redelegation of the Assistant Attorney General's authority in Civil Division cases to Branch Directors, heads of offices, and United States Attorneys.

This directive applies to all cases pending as of the date of this directive and is effective immediately.

This directive consists of rules of agency organization, procedure, and practice and does not create a private right of action for any private party to challenge the rules or actions taken pursuant to them.

By virtue of the authority vested in me by part 0 of title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations, particularly §§ 0.55, 0.160, 0.162, 0.164, 0.166, and 0.168, it is hereby ordered as follows:
