
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 35 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SERVICES
#### Appendix C to Part 35 - Guidance to Revisions to ADA Title II and Title III Regulations Revising the Meaning and Interpretation of the Definition of "Disability" and Other Provisions in Order To Incorporate the Requirements of the ADA Amendments Act
##### See

Many commenters supported inclusion of this information as reiterating the statutory language evincing Congress' intention "to restore a broad definition of `disability' under the ADA. . . ." Several commenters asked the Department to delete the last sentence in §§ 35.101(b) and 36.101(b), arguing that inclusion of this language is inconsistent with the individualized assessment required under the ADA. Some of these commenters acknowledged, however, that this language is drawn directly from the "Purposes" of the ADA Amendments Act.Public Law 110-325, sec. 2(b)(5). The Department declines to remove this sentence from the final rule. In addition to directly quoting the statute, the Department believes that this language neither precludes nor is inconsistent with conducting an individualized assessment of whether an individual is covered by the ADA.

Some commenters recommended that the Department add a third paragraph to these sections expressly stating that "not all impairments are covered disabilities." These commenters contended that "[t]here is a common misperception that having a diagnosed impairment automatically triggers coverage under the ADA." While the Department does not agree that such a misperception is common, it agrees that it would be appropriate to include such a statement in the final rule, and has added it to the rules of construction explaining the phrase "substantially limits" at §§ 35.108(d)(1)(v) and 36.105(d)(1)(v).

The current title II and title III regulations include the definition of "disability" in regulatory sections that contain all enumerated definitions in alphabetical order. Given the expanded length of the definition of "disability" and the number of additional subsections required in order to give effect to the requirements of the ADA Amendments Act, the Department, in the NPRM, proposed moving the definition of "disability" from the general definitional sections at §§ 35.104 and 36.104 to a new section in each regulation, §§ 35.108 and 36.105, respectively.

The Department received no public comments in response to this proposal and the definition of "disability" remains in its own sections in the final rule.

In the ADA, Congress originally defined "disability" as "(A) a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities of an individual; (B) a record of such an impairment; or (C) being regarded as having such an impairment." Public Law 101-336, sec. 3 (1990). This three-part definition-the "actual," "record of," and "regarded as" prongs-was modeled after the definition of "handicap" found in the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. H.R. Rep. No. 110-730, pt. 2, at 6 (2008). The Department's 1991 title II and title III ADA regulations reiterate this three-part basic definition as follows:

Disability means, with respect to an individual,

- a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of such individual;

- a record of such an impairment; or

- being regarded as having such an impairment.

While the ADA Amendments Act did not amend the basic structure or terminology of the original statutory definition of "disability," the Act revised the third prong to incorporate by reference two specific provisions construing this prong. 42 U.S.C. 12102(3)(A)-(B). The first statutory provision clarified the scope of the "regarded as" prong by explaining that "[a]n individual meets the requirement of `being regarded as having such an impairment' if the individual establishes that he or she has been subjected to an action prohibited under this chapter because of an actual or perceived physical or mental impairment whether or not the impairment limits or is perceived to limit a major life activity." 42 U.S.C. 12102(3)(A). The second statutory provision provides an exception to the "regarded as" prong for impairments that are both transitory and minor. A transitory impairment is defined as "an impairment with an actual or expected duration of 6 months or less." 42 U.S.C. 12102(3)(B). In the NPRM, the Department proposed revising the "regarded as" prong in §§ 35.108(a)(1)(iii) and 36.105(a)(1)(iii) to reference the regulatory provisions that implement 42 U.S.C. 12102(3). The NPRM proposed, at §§ 35.108(f) and 36.105(f), that "regarded as" having an impairment would mean that the individual has been subjected to an action prohibited by the ADA because of an actual or perceived impairment that is not both "transitory and minor."
