
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 35 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SERVICES
#### Appendix C to Part 35 - Guidance to Revisions to ADA Title II and Title III Regulations Revising the Meaning and Interpretation of the Definition of "Disability" and Other Provisions in Order To Incorporate the Requirements of the ADA Amendments Act
##### Id.

The ADA as amended provides that the "regarded as" prong of the definition of "disability" does "not apply to impairments that are [both] transitory and minor." 42 U.S.C. 12102(3)(B). "Transitory impairment" is defined as "an impairment with an actual or expected duration of six months or less."The statute does not define the term "minor." Whether an impairment is both "transitory and minor" is a question of fact that is dependent upon individual circumstances. The ADA as amended contains no such provision with respect to the first two prongs of the definition of "disability"-"actual disability," and "record of" disability. The application of the "transitory and minor" exception to the "regarded as" prong is addressed in §§ 35.108(f) and 36.105(f).

The Department received two comments on this proposed language. One commenter recommended that the Department delete this language and "replace it with language clarifying that if a condition cannot meet the lower threshold of impairment under the third prong, it cannot meet the higher threshold of a disability under the first and second prongs." The Department declines to modify these provisions because the determination of whether an individual satisfies the requirements of a particular prong is not a comparative determination between the three means of demonstrating disability under the ADA. The Department believes that the suggested language would create confusion because there are significant differences between the first two prongs and the third prong. In addition, the Department believes its proposed language is in keeping with the ADA Amendments Act and the supporting legislative history.
