
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 35 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SERVICES
#### Appendix C to Part 35 - Guidance to Revisions to ADA Title II and Title III Regulations Revising the Meaning and Interpretation of the Definition of "Disability" and Other Provisions in Order To Incorporate the Requirements of the ADA Amendments Act
##### See,School Board of Nassau County,Arline,,Arline,,Id.,Arline,See

The "regarded as having such an impairment" prong of the definition of "disability" was included in the ADA specifically to protect individuals who might not meet the first two prongs of the definition, but who were subject to adverse decisions by covered entities based upon unfounded concerns, mistaken beliefs, fears, myths, or prejudices about persons with disabilities.154 Cong. Rec. S8842 (daily ed. Sept. 16, 2008) (Statement of the Managers). The rationale for the "regarded as" part of the definition of "disability" was articulated by the Supreme Court in the context of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 inv.480 U.S. 273 (1987). Inthe Court noted that, although an individual may have an impairment that does not diminish his or her physical or mental capabilities, it could "nevertheless substantially limit that person's ability to work as a result of the negative reactions of others to the impairment."at 283. Thus, individuals seeking the protection of the ADA under the "regarded as" prong only had to show that a covered entity took some action prohibited by the statute because of an actual or perceived impairment. At the time of thedecision, there was no requirement that the individual demonstrate that he or she, in fact, had or was perceived to have an impairment that substantially limited a major life activity.154 Cong. Rec. S8842 (daily ed. Sept. 16, 2008) (Statement of the Managers). For example, if a daycare center refused to admit a child with burn scars because of the presence of the scars, then the daycare center regarded the child as an individual with a disability, regardless of whether the child's scars substantially limited a major life activity.
