
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart Y - Authority To Compromise and Close Civil Claims and Responsibility for Judgments, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures
##### Appendix to Subpart Y of Part 0 - Redelegations of Authority To Compromise and Close Civil Claims
###### Effective Date:

April 12, 1983.

This directive establishes the Division's policy of notice to appropriate state officials of action against states. The Chief of each section in the Environment and Natural Resources Division shall:

1. Insure that each attorney in his or her respective section reads, becomes familiar with, and complies with this directive.

2. In each suit or claim brought against state government, agencies, and entities;

(a) Satisfy the Deputy Assistant Attorney General to whom the section reports of compliance with this directive,

(b) Before such suit or claim is brought, advise the Attorney General and governor of any affected state as to the nature of the contemplated action and the terms of the remedy sought and

(c) Place a memorandum in the file of the case of matter, indicating compliance with this directive.

Such prior notice may:

(1) Result in settlement of the action in advance of its filing on terms acceptable to the United States,

(2) Permit the state to bring to our attention facts or issues that may change our outlook on the action, or

(3) Permit the State Attorney General and the Governor to respond knowledgeably to inquires from local officials and the media when the action is commenced.

Because the actual situation covered by this directive may vary from section to section, no single detailed procedure can be established but common sense should prevail. To that end, the state through its Attorney General and Governor should get fair warning and an opportunity to resolve the litigation. The notice should be given sufficiently in advance of the contemplated action to allow state officials to respond.

Where a Section Chief believes he has good cause to seek an exception from the terms of this directive he should discuss the matter with the Deputy Assistant Attorney General to whom he or she reports.
