
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 36 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY BY PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS AND IN COMMERCIAL FACILITIES
#### Appendix A to Part 36 - Guidance on Revisions to ADA Regulation on Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Disability by Public Accommodations and Commercial Facilities
##### Whether the definition of "wheelchair" includes the Segway&#xAE; PT.,See,Characteristics of Emerging Road and Trail Users and Their Safety,http://www.tfhrc.gov/safety/pubs/04103

As discussed above, because individuals with mobility disabilities are using the Segway&#xAE; PT as a mobility device, the Department asked whether it should be included in the definition of "wheelchair." The basic Segway&#xAE; PT model is a two-wheeled, gyroscopically-stabilized, battery-powered personal transportation device. The user stands on a platform suspended three inches off the ground by wheels on each side, grasps a T-shaped handle, and steers the device similarly to a bicycle. Most Segway&#xAE; PTs can travel up to 12miles per hour, compared to the average pedestrian walking speed of 3 to 4 miles per hour and the approximate maximum speed for power-operated wheelchairs of 6 miles per hour. In a study of trail and other non-motorized transportation users including EPAMDs, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) found that the eye height of individuals using EPAMDs ranged from approximately 69 to 80 inches.Federal Highway Administration,(Oct. 14, 2004), available at(last visited June 24, 2010). Thus, the Segway&#xAE; PT can operate at much greater speeds than wheelchairs, and the average user stands much taller than most wheelchair users.

The Segway&#xAE; PT has been the subject of debate among users, pedestrians, disability advocates, State and local governments, businesses, and bicyclists. The fact that the Segway&#xAE; PT is not designed primarily for use by individuals with disabilities, nor used primarily by persons with disabilities, complicates the question of to what extent individuals with disabilities should be allowed to operate them in areas and facilities where other power-driven mobility devices are not allowed. Those who question the use of the Segway&#xAE; PT in pedestrian areas argue that the speed, size, and operating features of the devices make them too dangerous to operate alongside pedestrians and wheelchair users.

Comments regarding whether to include the Segway&#xAE; PT in the definition of "wheelchair" were, by far, the most numerous received in the category of comments regarding wheelchairs and other power-driven mobility devices. Significant numbers of veterans with disabilities, individuals with multiple sclerosis, and those advocating on their behalf made concise statements of general support for the inclusion of the Segway&#xAE; PT in the definition of "wheelchair." Two veterans offered extensive comments on the topic, along with a few advocacy and nonprofit groups and individuals with disabilities for whom sitting is uncomfortable or impossible.
