
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.11 Application for parole; notice of hearing.

(a) A federal prisoner (including a committed youth offender or prisoner sentenced under the Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act) desiring to apply for parole shall execute an application form as prescribed by the Commission. Such forms shall be available at each federal institution and shall be provided to each prisoner who is eligible for an initial parole hearing pursuant to ยง 2.12. Prisoners committed under the Federal Juvenile Delinquency Act shall be considered for parole without application and may not waive parole consideration. A prisoner who receives an initial hearing need not apply for subsequent hearings.

(b) A prisoner may knowingly and intelligently waive any parole consideration on a form provided for that purpose. If a prisoner waives parole consideration, he may later apply for parole and may be heard during the next visit of the Commission to the institution at which he is confined, provided that he has applied at least 60 days prior to the first day of the month in which such visit of the Commission occurs.

(c) A prisoner who declines either to apply for or waive parole consideration is deemed to have waived parole consideration.

(d) In addition to the above procedures relating to parole application, all prisoners prior to initial hearing shall be provided with an inmate background statement by the Bureau of Prisons for completion by the prisoner.

(e) At least sixty days prior to the initial hearing (and prior to any hearing conducted pursuant to ยง 2.14), the prisoner shall be provided with written notice of the time and place of the hearing and of his right to review the documents to be considered by the Commission, as provided by ยง 2.55. A prisoner may waive such notice, except that if such notice is not waived, the case shall be continued to the time of the next regularly scheduled proceeding of the Commission at the institution in which the prisoner is confined.
