
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.13 Initial hearing; procedure.

(a) An initial hearing shall be conducted by a single hearing examiner unless the Regional Commissioner orders that the hearing be conducted by a panel of two examiners. The examiner shall discuss with the prisoner his offense severity rating and salient factor score as described in ยง 2.20, his institutional conduct and, in addition, any other matter the examiner may deem relevant.

(b) A prisoner may be represented at a hearing by a person of his or her choice. The function of the prisoner's representative shall be to offer a statement at the conclusion of the interview of the prisoner by the examiner, and to provide such additional information as the examiner shall request. Interested parties who oppose parole may select a representative to appear and offer a statement. The hearing examiner shall limit or exclude any irrelevant or repetitious statement.

(c) At the conclusion of the hearing, the examiner shall discuss the decision to be recommended by the examiner and the reasons therefor, except in the extraordinary circumstance of a complex issue that requires further deliberation before a recommendation can be made. Written notice of the decision shall be mailed or transmitted to the prisoner within 21 days of the date of the hearing, except in emergencies. Whenever the Commission initially establishes a release date (or modifies the release date thereafter), the prisoner shall also receive in writing the reasons therefor.

(d) In accordance with 18 U.S.C. 4206, the reasons for establishment of a release date shall include a guidelines evaluation statement containing the prisoner's offense severity rating and salient factor score (including the points credited on each item of such score) as described in ยง 2.20, as well as the specific factors and information relied upon for any decision outside the range indicated by the guidelines.

(e) No interviews with the Commission, or any representative thereof, shall be granted to a prisoner unless his name is docketed for a hearing in accordance with Commission procedures. Hearings shall not be open to the public.

(f) A full and complete record of every hearing shall be retained by the Commission. Upon a request, pursuant to ยง 2.56, the Commission shall make available to any eligible prisoner such record as the Commission has retained of the hearing.
