
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 41 - IMPLEMENTATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 12250, NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS
#### Appendix A to Part 41 - Leadership and Coordination of Nondiscrimination Laws
##### Implementation by the Attorney General.

1-3.

1-301. In consultation with the affected agencies, the Attorney General shall promptly prepare a plan for the implementation of this Order. This plan shall be submitted to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

1-302. The Attorney General shall periodically evaluate the implementation of the nondiscrimination provisions of the laws covered by this Order, and advise the heads of the agencies concerned on the results of such evaluations as to recommendations for needed improvement in implementation or enforcement.

1-303. The Attorney General shall carry out his functions under this Order, including the issuance of such regulations as he deems necessary, in consultation with affected agencies.

1-304. The Attorney General shall annually report to the President through the Director of the Office of Management and Budget on the progress in achieving the purposes of this Order. This report shall include any recommendations for changes in the implementation or enforcement of the nondiscrimination provisions of the laws covered by this Order.

1-305. The Attorney General shall chair the Interagency Coordinating Council established by section 507 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794c).
