
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 42 - NONDISCRIMINATION; EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY; POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart B [Reserved]
###### ยง 42.109 Hearings.
####### Opportunity for hearing.

(a)Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by ยง 42.108(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. That notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for that action. The notice shall (1) Fix a date, not less than 20 days after the date of such notice, within which the applicant or recipient may request that the responsible Department official schedule the matter for hearing, or (2) advise the applicant or recipient that a hearing concerning the matter in question has been scheduled and advise the applicant or recipient of the place and time of that hearing. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing under this paragraph or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing afforded by section 602 of the Act and ยง 42.108(c) and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as is available.
