
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 42 - NONDISCRIMINATION; EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY; POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart B [Reserved]
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 42 - Federal Financial Assistance Administered by the Department of Justice to Which This Subpart Applies

1. Assistance provided by the Office of Justice Programs (OJP), the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), the National Institute of Justice (NIJ), the Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS), and the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP), including block, formula, and discretionary grants, victim compensation payments, and victim assistance grants (title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 3701-3796, as amended (Pub. L. 90-351, as amended by Pub. L. 93-83, Pub. L. 93-415, Pub. L. 94-430, Pub. L. 94-503, Pub. L. 95-115, Pub. L. 96-157, and Pub. L. 98-473); the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5601-5751, as amended (Pub. L. 93-415, as amended by Pub. L. 94-503, Pub. L. 95-115, Pub. L. 96-509, and Pub. L. 98-473); the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, 42 U.S.C. 10601-10604, (Pub. L. 98-473)).

2. Assistance provided by the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) including technical assistance to State and local governments for improvement of correctional systems; training of law enforcement personnel, and assistance to legal services programs (18 U.S.C. 4042).

3. Assistance provided by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) including training, grants, and technical assistance to State and local governments, public and private agencies, educational institutions, organizations and individuals, in the area of corrections (18 U.S.C. 4351-4353).

4. Assistance provided by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) including training, joint task forces, information sharing agreements, cooperative agreements, and logistical support, primarily to State and local government agencies (21 U.S.C. 871-886).

5. Assistance provided by the Community Relations Service (CRS) in the form of discretionary grants to public and private agencies under the Cuban-Haitian Entrant Program (title V of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-422).

6. Assistance provided by the U.S. Parole Commission in the form of workshops and training programs for State and local agencies and public and private organizations (18 U.S.C. 4204).

7. Assistance provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) including field training, training through its National Academy, National Crime Information Center, and laboratory facilities, primarily to State and local criminal justice agencies (Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended 42 U.S.C. 3701-3796).

8. Assistance provided by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) including training and services primarily to State and local governments under the Alien Status Verification Index (ASVI); and citizenship textbooks and training primarily to schools and public and private service agencies (8 U.S.C. 1360, 8 U.S.C. 1457).

9. Assistance provided by the United States Marshals Service through its Cooperative Agreement Program for improvement of State and local correctional facilities (Pub. L. 99-180, 99 Stat. 1142).

10. Assistance provided by the Attorney General through the Equitable Transfer of Forfeited Property Program (Equitable Sharing) primarily to State and local law enforcement agencies (21 U.S.C. 881(e)).

11. Assistance provided by the Department of Justice participating agencies that conduct specialized training through the National Center for State and Local Law Enforcement Training, a component of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), Glenco, Georgia (Pursuant to Memorandum Agreement with the Department of Treasury).
