
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 42 - NONDISCRIMINATION; EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY; POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Equal Employment Opportunity Program Guidelines
##### ยง 42.304 Written equal employment opportunity program.

Each recipient's equal employment opportunity program shall be in writing and shall include:

(a) A job classification table or chart which clearly indicates for each job classification or assignment the number of employees within each respective job category classified by race, sex and national origin (include for example Hispanic, Asian or Pacific Islander, and American Indian or Alaskan Native). Also, principal duties and rates of pay should be clearly indicated for each job classification. Where auxiliary duties are assigned or more than one rate of pay applies because of length of time in the job or other factors, a special notation should be made. Where the recipient operates more than one shift or assigns employees within each shift to varying locations, as in law enforcement agencies, the number by race, sex and national origin on each shift and in each location should be identified. When relevant, the recipient should indicate the racial/ethnic mix of the geographic area of assignments by the inclusion of minority population and percentage statistics.

(b) The number of disciplinary actions taken against employees by race, sex and national origin within the preceding fiscal year, the number and types of sanctions imposed (suspension indefinitely, suspension for a term, loss of pay, written reprimand, oral reprimand, other) against individuals by race, sex and national origin.

(c) The number of individuals by race, sex and national origin (if available) applying for employment within the preceding fiscal year and the number by race, sex and national origin (if available) of those applicants who were offered employment and those who were actually hired. If such data is unavailable, the recipient should institute a system for the collection of such data.

(d) The number of employees in each job category by race, sex and national origin who made application for promotion or transfer within the preceding fiscal year and the number in each job category by race, sex, and national origin who were promoted or transferred.

(e) The number of employees by race, sex, and national origin who were terminated within the preceding fiscal year, identifying by race, sex, and national origin which were voluntary and involuntary terminations.

(f) Available community and area labor characteristics within the relevant geographical area including total population, workforce and existing unemployment by race, sex and national origin. Such data may be obtained from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Washington, DC, State and local employment services, or other reliable sources. Recipient should identify the sources of the data used.

(g) A detailed narrative statement setting forth the recipient's existing employment policies and practices as defined in ยง 42.202(c). Thus, for example, where testing is used in the employment selection process, it is not sufficient for the recipient to simply note the fact. The recipient should identify the test, describe the procedures followed in administering and scoring the test, state what weight is given to test scores, how a cut-off score is established and whether the test has been validated to predict or measure job performance and, if so, a detailed description of the validation study. Similarly detailed responses are required with respect to other employment policies, procedures, and practices used by the applicant.

(1) The statement should include the recipient's detailed analysis of existing employment policies, procedures, and practices as they relate to employment of minorities and women (see ยง 42.303) and, where improvements are necessary, the statement should set forth in detail the specific steps the recipient will take for the achievement of full and equal employment opportunity. The Department of Justice Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures, 28 CFR part 50, set out the appropriate standards for nondiscriminatory selection procedures. Recipients of LEAA assistance using selection procedures which are not in conformity with the Department of Justice guidelines shall set forth the specific areas of nonconformity, the reasons which may explain any such nonconformity, and if necessary, the steps the recipient agency will take to correct any existing deficiency.

(2) The recipient should also set forth a program for recruitment of minority persons based on an informed judgment of what is necessary to attract minority applications including, but not necessarily limited to, dissemination of posters, use of advertising media patronized by minorities, minority group contacts and community relations programs. As appropriate, recipients may wish to refer to recruitment techniques suggested in revised order No. 4 of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, U.S. Department of Labor, found at 41 CFR 60-2.24(e).

(h) Plan for dissemination of the applicant's Equal Employment Opportunity Program to all personnel, applicants and the general public. As appropriate, recipients may wish to refer to the recommendations for dissemination of policy suggested in revised order No. 4 of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, U.S. Department of Labor, found at 41 CFR 60-2.21.

(i) Designation of specified personnel to implement and maintain adherence to the equal employment opportunity program and a description of their specific responsibilities suggested in revised order No. 4 of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, U.S. Department of Labor, found at 41 CFR 60-2.22.
