
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 42 - NONDISCRIMINATION; EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY; POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart G - Nondiscrimination Based on Handicap in Federally Assisted Programs or Activities - Implementation of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 42.505 Administrative requirements for recipients.
####### Notice.

(f)(1) A recipient employing fifty or more persons and receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department of more than $25,000 shall, on a continuing basis, notify participants, beneficiaries, applicants, employees and unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in violation of section 504 and this subpart. The notification shall state, where appropriate, that the recipient does not discriminate in its programs or activities with respect to access, treatment or employment. The notification shall also include identification of the person responsible for coordinating compliance with this subpart and where to file section 504 complaints with the Department and, where applicable, with the recipient. A recipient shall make the initial notification required by this paragraph within 90 days of the effective date of this subpart. Methods of initial and continuing notification may include the posting of notices, publication in newspapers and magazines, placement of notices in recipients' publication, and distribution of memoranda or other written communications.

(2) Recruitment materials or publications containing general information that a recipient makes available to participants, beneficiaries, applicants, or employees shall include a policy statement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap.

(g) The Department may require any recipient with fewer than fifty employees and receiving less than $25,000 in Federal financial assistance to comply with paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) through (f) of this section.

(h) The obligation to comply with this subpart is not affected by any State or local law or requirement or limited employment opportunities for handicapped persons in any occupation or profession.
