
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 42 - NONDISCRIMINATION; EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY; POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart I - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in Federally Assisted Programs or Activities; Implementation of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975
##### Compliance Procedures
###### ยง 42.731 Complaints.
####### Receipt of complaints.

(b)(1) Any aggrieved person, individually or as a member of a class, may file with the Department a written complaint alleging a violation of this subpart. A complaint may be filed by a representative of an aggrieved person. A complaint must be filed within 180 days of the date the complaint first knew of the alleged violation. However, this time limit may, for good cause shown, be extended by the Department.

(2) The Department shall promptly review each such complaint for sufficiency. A complaint will be deemed sufficient if it-

(i) Describes an action that may constitute a violation of this subpart; and

(ii) Contains information necessary for further processing (i.e., identifies the parties involved, states the date when the complainant first learned of the alleged violation, and is signed by the complainant).

(3) When a complaint is deemed sufficient, the Department shall promptly refer it to the FMCS for mediation.

(4) When a complaint is deemed insufficient, the Department shall advise the complainant of the reasons for that determination. A complainant shall be freely permitted to add information necessary for further processing.
