
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 42 - NONDISCRIMINATION; EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY; POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
#### Subpart I - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in Federally Assisted Programs or Activities; Implementation of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975
##### Compliance Procedures
###### ยง 42.733 Enforcement procedures.
####### Deferral.

(c)When a proceeding for the termination or refusal or federal financial assistance is initiated pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the Department may defer granting new federal financial assistance to the recipient.

(1) New federal financial assistance includes any assistance for which, during the deferral period, the Department requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities or authorization of new activities. New federal financial assistance does not include assistance approved prior to initiation of the administrative proceeding or increases in funding as a result of a change in the manner of computing formula awards.

(2) A deferral may not begin until the recipient has received a notice of opportunity for a hearing. A deferral may not continue for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the Department. A deferral may not continue for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.
