
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 45 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES
#### ยง 45.10 Procedures to promote compliance with crime victims' rights obligations.
##### Complaint process.

(c)(1) Complaints must be submitted in writing to the POC of the relevant office or offices of the Department of Justice. If a complaint alleges a violation that would create a conflict of interest for the POC to investigate, the complaint shall be forwarded by the POC immediately to the VRO.

(2) Complaints shall contain, to the extent known to, or reasonably available to, the victim, the following information:

(i) The name and personal contact information of the crime victim who allegedly was denied one or more crime victims' rights;

(ii) The name and contact information of the Department of Justice employee who is the subject of the complaint, or other identifying information if the complainant is not able to provide the name and contact information;

(iii) The district court case number;

(iv) The name of the defendant in the case;

(v) The right or rights listed in 18 U.S.C. 3771 that the Department of Justice employee is alleged to have violated; and

(vi) Specific information regarding the circumstances of the alleged violation sufficient to enable the POC to conduct an investigation, including, but not limited to: The date of the alleged violation; an explanation of how the alleged violation occurred; whether the complainant notified the Department of Justice employee of the alleged violation; how and when such notification was provided to the Department of Justice employee; and actions taken by the Department of Justice employee in response to the notification.

(3) Complaints must be submitted within 60 days of the victim's knowledge of a violation, but not more than one year after the actual violation.

(4)(i) In response to a complaint that provides the information required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and that contains specific and credible information that demonstrates that one or more crime victims' rights listed in 18 U.S.C. 3771 may have been violated by a Department of Justice employee or office, the POC shall investigate the allegation(s) in the complaint within a reasonable period of time.

(ii) The POC shall report the results of the investigation to the VRO.

(5) Upon receipt of the POC's report of the investigation, the VRO shall determine whether to close the complaint without further action, whether further investigation is warranted, or whether action in accordance with paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section is necessary.

(6) Where the VRO concludes that further investigation is warranted, he may conduct such further investigation. Upon conclusion of the investigation, the VRO may close the complaint if he determines that no further action is warranted or may take action under paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.

(7) The VRO shall be the final arbiter of the complaint.

(8) A complainant may not seek judicial review of the VRO's determination regarding the complaint.

(9) To the extent permissible in accordance with the Privacy Act and other relevant statutes and regulations regarding release of information by the Federal government, the VRO, in his discretion, may notify the complainant of the result of the investigation.

(10) The POC and the VRO shall refer to the Office of the Inspector General and to the Office of Professional Responsibility any matters that fall under those offices' respective jurisdictions that come to light in an investigation.

(d) If the VRO finds that an employee or office of the Department of Justice has failed to provide a victim with a right to which the victim is entitled under 18 U.S.C. 3771, but not in a willful or wanton manner, he shall require such employee or office of the Department of Justice to undergo training on victims' rights.
