
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.44 Summons to appear or warrant for retaking of parolee.

(a) If a parolee is alleged to have violated the conditions of his release, and satisfactory evidence thereof is presented, the Commission or a member thereof may:

(1) Issue a summons requiring the offender to appear for a preliminary interview or local revocation hearing.

(2) Issue a warrant for the apprehension and return of the offender to custody.

(b) Any summons or warrant under this section shall be issued as soon as practicable after the alleged violation is reported to the Commission, except when delay is deemed necessary. Issuance of a summons or warrant may be withheld until the frequency or seriousness of violations, in the opinion of the Commission, requires such issuance. In the case of any parolee charged with a criminal offense and awaiting disposition of the charge, issuance of a summons or warrant may be withheld, a warrant may be issued and held in abeyance, or a warrant may be issued and a detainer may be placed.

(c) A summons or warrant may be issued only within the prisoner's maximum term or terms except that in the case of a prisoner released as if on parole pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4164, such summons or warrant may be issued only within the maximum term or terms, less one hundred eighty days. A summons or warrant shall be considered issued when signed and either-

(1) Placed in the mail or

(2) Sent by electronic transmission to the intended authorities.

(d) The issuance of a warrant under this section operates to bar the expiration of the parolee's sentence. Such warrant maintains the Commission's jurisdiction to retake the parolee either before or after the normal expiration date of the sentence and to reach a final decision as to revocation of parole and forfeiture of time pursuant to ยง 2.52(c).

(e) A summons or warrant issued pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by a statement of the charges against the parolee, the applicable procedural rights under the Commission's regulations and the possible actions which may be taken by the Commission. A summons shall specify the time and place the parolee shall appear for a revocation hearing. Failure to appear in response to a summons shall be grounds for issuance of a warrant.
