
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 48 - NEWSPAPER PRESERVATION ACT
#### ยง 48.5 Requests that information not be made public.

(a) Any applicant may file a request that commercial or financial data required to be filed and made public under these regulations, which is privileged and confidential within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 552(b), be withheld from public disclosure. Each such request shall be accompanied by a statement of the reasons why nondisclosure is required. The request shall be determined by the Attorney General who shall consider the extent to which (1) disclosure may cause substantial harm to the applicant submitting the information, and (2) nondisclosure may impair the ability of persons who may be adversely affected by the proposed arrangement to present their views in proceedings under these regulations. Information relevant to the financial conditions of the newspaper or newspapers represented to be failing ordinarily shall not be ordered withheld from public disclosure.

(b) Upon ordering that any documents be withheld from public disclosure, the Attorney General shall file a statement setting forth the subject matter of the documents withheld. Any person desiring to inspect the documents may file a request for inspection, identifying with as much particularity as possible the materials to be inspected and setting forth the reasons for inspection and the facts in support thereof. The request for disclosure shall be considered by the Attorney General, who shall give the applicant that submitted the documents an opportunity to be heard in opposition to disclosure. Orders granting inspection shall specify the terms and conditions thereof, including restrictions on disclosure to third parties.

(c) Documents ordered withheld from public disclosure shall be made available to the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division. If a hearing is held, the documents may be offered as evidence by any party to whom they have been disclosed. The administrative law judge may restrict further disclosure as he deems appropriate, taking into account the considerations set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) Requests for access to materials within the scope of this section that may be filed after the conclusion of proceedings under these regulations shall be processed in accordance with the Department's regulations under 5 U.S.C. 552 (part 16 of this chapter).
