
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 50 - STATEMENTS OF POLICY
#### ยง 50.10 Policy regarding obtaining information from or records of members of the news media; and regarding questioning, arresting, or charging members of the news media.
##### Statement of principles.

(a)(1) A free and independent press is vital to the functioning of our democracy. Because freedom of the press can be no broader than the freedom of members of the news media to investigate and report the news, the Department's policy is intended to provide protection to members of the news media from certain law enforcement tools and actions, whether criminal or civil, that might unreasonably impair newsgathering. The policy is not intended to shield from accountability members of the news media who are subjects or targets of a criminal investigation for conduct outside the scope of newsgathering.

(2) The Department recognizes the important national interest in protecting journalists from compelled disclosure of information revealing their sources, sources they need to apprise the American people of the workings of their Government. For this reason, with the exception of certain circumstances set out in this section, the Department of Justice will not use compulsory legal process for the purpose of obtaining information from or records of members of the news media acting within the scope of newsgathering.

(3) In determining whether to seek, when permitted by this policy, information from or records of members of the news media, the Department must consider several vital interests: protecting national security, ensuring public safety, promoting effective law enforcement and the fair administration of justice, and safeguarding the essential role of a free press in fostering Government accountability and an open society, including by protecting members of the news media from compelled disclosure of information revealing their sources. These interests have long informed the Department's view that the use of compulsory legal process to seek information from or records of non-consenting members of the news media constitutes an extraordinary measure, not a standard investigatory practice.
