
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 50 - STATEMENTS OF POLICY
#### ยง 50.10 Policy regarding obtaining information from or records of members of the news media; and regarding questioning, arresting, or charging members of the news media.
##### Exhaustion.

(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the official authorizing the compulsory legal process must find the following exhaustion conditions are met:

(i) The Government has exhausted all reasonable avenues to obtain the information from alternative, non-news-media sources.

(ii) The Government has pursued negotiations with the member of the news media in an attempt to secure the member of the news media's consent to the production of the information or records to be sought through compulsory legal process, unless the authorizing official determines that, for compelling reasons, such negotiations would pose a clear and substantial threat to the integrity of the investigation or pose the risks described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Where the nature of the investigation permits, the Government must have explained to the member of the news media the Government's need for the information sought in a particular investigation or prosecution, as well as its willingness or ability to address the concerns of the member of the news media.

(iii) The proposed compulsory legal process is narrowly drawn. It must be directed at material and relevant information regarding a limited subject matter, avoid interference with unrelated newsgathering, cover a reasonably limited period of time, avoid requiring production of a large volume of material, and give reasonable and timely notice of the demand as required by paragraph (j) of this section.

(2) When the process is sought pursuant to paragraph (d)(1), (i), or (l) of this section, the authorizing official is not required to find that the exhaustion conditions in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section have been satisfied, but should consider requiring those conditions as appropriate.
