
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.48 Revocation: Preliminary interview.
###### Review of the charges.

(c)At the preliminary interview, the interviewing officer shall review the violation charges with the parolee, apprise the parolee of the evidence which has been presented to the Commission, receive the statements of witnesses and documentary evidence on behalf of the parolee, and allow cross-examination of those witnesses in attendance. Disclosure of the evidence presented to the Commission shall be made pursuant to ยง 2.50(d).

(d) At the conclusion of the preliminary interview, the interviewing officer shall inform the parolee of his recommended decision as to whether there is probable cause to believe that the parolee has violated the conditions of his release, and shall submit to the Commission a digest of the interview together with his recommended decision.

(1) If the interviewing officer's recommended decision is that no probable cause may be found to believe that the parolee has violated the conditions of his release, the responsible Regional Commissioner shall review such recommended decision and notify the parolee of his final decision concerning probable cause as expeditiously as possible following receipt of the interviewing officer's digest. A decision to release the parolee shall be implemented without delay.

(2) If the interviewing officer's recommended decision is that probable cause may be found to believe that the parolee has violated a condition (or conditions) of his release, the responsible Regional Commissioner shall notify the parolee of his final decision concerning probable cause within 21 days of the date of the preliminary interview.

(3) Notice to the parolee of any final decision of a Regional Commissioner finding probable cause and ordering a revocation hearing shall state the charges upon which probable cause has been found and the evidence relied upon.
