
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 50 - STATEMENTS OF POLICY
#### ยง 50.10 Policy regarding obtaining information from or records of members of the news media; and regarding questioning, arresting, or charging members of the news media.
##### Standards for authorizing compulsory legal process.

(h)(1) In all matters covered by this section, the official authorizing the compulsory legal process must take into account the principles set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, when the member of the news media is not the subject or target of an investigation and suspected of having committed an offense, the official authorizing the compulsory legal process must take into account the following considerations:

(i) In criminal matters, there must be reasonable grounds to believe, based on public information or information from non-news-media sources, that a crime has occurred, and that the information sought is essential to a successful investigation or prosecution. The compulsory legal process may not be used to obtain peripheral, nonessential, or speculative information.

(ii) In civil matters, there must be reasonable grounds to believe, based on public information or information from non-news-media sources, that the information sought is essential to the successful completion of the investigation or litigation in a case of substantial importance. The compulsory legal process may not be used to obtain peripheral, nonessential, cumulative, or speculative information.

(3) When paragraph (h)(2) of this section would otherwise apply, but the compulsory legal process is sought pursuant to paragraph (i) or (l) of this section, the authorizing official is not required to, but should, take into account whether the information sought is essential to a successful investigation, prosecution, or litigation as described in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(4) When the member of the news media is the subject or target of an investigation and suspected of having committed an offense, before authorizing compulsory legal process, the authorizing official is not required to, but should, take into account the considerations set forth in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section as appropriate.
