
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 50 - STATEMENTS OF POLICY
#### ยง 50.10 Policy regarding obtaining information from or records of members of the news media; and regarding questioning, arresting, or charging members of the news media.
##### Notice of compulsory legal process to the affected member of the news media.

(j)(1) Members of the Department must provide notice to the affected member of the news media prior to the execution of authorized compulsory legal process under paragraph (c) of this section unless the authorizing official determines that, for compelling reasons, such notice would pose the risks described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(2) Members of the Department must provide notice prior to the execution of compulsory legal process authorized under paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) through (vi) of this section to a member of the news media that is not the subject or target of an investigation and suspected of having committed an offense, unless the authorizing official determines that, for compelling reasons, such notice would pose a clear and substantial threat to the integrity of the investigation or would pose the risks described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and so informs the Deputy Attorney General in advance.

(3) If the member of the news media has not been given notice under paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section, the United States Attorney or Assistant Attorney General responsible for the matter must provide notice to the member of the news media as soon as it is determined that such notice would no longer pose the concerns described in paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.

(4) In any event, such notice must be given to the affected member of the news media within 45 days of the Government's receipt of a complete return made pursuant to all forms of compulsory legal process included in the same authorizing official's authorization under paragraph (c) or (d)(1)(ii) through (vi) of this section, except that the authorizing official may authorize delay of notice for one additional 45-day period if the official determines that, for compelling reasons, such notice continues to pose the same concerns described in paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.

(5) Members of the Department are not required to provide notice to the affected member of the news media of compulsory legal process that was authorized under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section if the affected member of the news media is the subject or target of an investigation and suspected of having committed an offense.

(i) The authorizing official may nevertheless direct that notice be provided to the affected member of the news media.

(ii) If the authorizing official does not direct that such notice be provided, the official must so inform the Deputy Attorney General, and members of the Department who are responsible for the matter must provide the authorizing official with an update every 90 days regarding the status of the investigation. That update must include an assessment of any harm to the investigation that would be caused by providing notice to the member of the news media. The authorizing official will consider such update in determining whether to direct that notice be provided.

(6) Notice under the policy in this section may be given to the affected member of the news media or a current employer of that member if that employer is also a member of the news media.

(7) A copy of any notice to be provided to a member of the news media shall be provided to the Director of the Office of Public Affairs and to the Director of the Criminal Division's Office of Enforcement Operations at least 10 business days before such notice is provided, and immediately after such notice is provided to the member of the news media.
