
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.55 Disclosure of file prior to parole hearing.
###### Processing disclosure requests.

(a)At least 60 days prior to a hearing scheduled pursuant to 28 CFR 2.12 or 2.14 each prisoner shall be given notice of his right to request disclosure of the reports and other documents to be used by the Commission in making its determination.

(1) The Commission's file consists mainly of documents provided by the Bureau of Prisons. Therefore, disclosure of documents used by the Commission can normally be accomplished by disclosure of documents in a prisoner's institutional file. Requests for disclosure of a prisoner's institutional file will be handled under the Bureau of Prison's disclosure regulations. The Bureau of Prisons has 15 days from date of receipt of a disclosure request to respond to that request.

(2) A prisoner may also request disclosure of documents used by the Commission which are contained in the Commission's regional office file but not in the prisoner's institutional file.

(3) Upon the prisoner's request, a representative shall be given access to the presentence investigation report reasonably in advance of the initial hearing, interim hearing, and a 15-year reconsideration hearing, pursuant and subject to the regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons. Disclosure shall not be permitted with respect to confidential material withheld by the sentencing court under Rule 32(c)(3)(A), F.R.Crim.P.
