
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.57 Special parole terms.

(a) The Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act, 21 U.S.C. sections 801 to 966, provides that, on conviction of certain offenses, mandatory "special parole terms" must be imposed by the court as part of the sentence. This term is an additional period of supervision which commences upon completion of any period on parole or mandatory release supervision from the regular sentence; or if the prisoner is released without supervision, commences upon such release.

(b) At the time of release under the regular sentence, whether under full term expiration or under a mandatory release certificate or a parole certificate, a separate Special Parole Term certificate will be issued to the prisoner by the Bureau of Prisons.

(c) Should a parolee be found to have violated conditions of release during supervision under his regular sentence, i.e., before commencement of the Special Parole Term, he may be returned as a violator under his regular sentence; the Special Parole Term will follow unaffected, as in paragraph (a) of this section. Should a parolee violate conditions of release during the Special Parole Term he will be subject to revocation on the Special Parole Term as provided in ยง 2.52, and subject to reparole or mandatory release under the Special Parole Term. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 2.52(c), a special parole term violator whose parole is revoked shall receive no credit for time spent on parole pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 841(c).

(d) If a prisoner is reparoled under the revoked Special Parole Term a certificate of parole to Special Parole Term is issued by the Commission. If the prisoner is mandatorily released under the revoked "special parole term" a certificate of mandatory release to Special Parole Term will be issued by the Bureau of Prisons.

(e) If regular parole or mandatory release supervision is terminated under ยง 2.43, the Special Parole Term commences to run at that point in time. Early termination from supervision from a Special Parole Term may occur as in the case of a regular parole term, except that the time periods considered shall commence from the beginning of the Special Parole Term.
