
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.62 Rewarding assistance in the prosecution of other offenders; criteria and guidelines.

(a) The Commission may consider as a factor in the parole release decision-making a prisoner's assistance to law enforcement authorities in the prosecution of other offenders.

(1) The assistance must have been an important factor in the investigation and/or prosecution of an offender other than the prisoner. Other significant assistance (e.g., providing information critical to prison security) may also be considered.

(2) The assistance must be reported to the Commission in sufficient detail to permit a full evaluation. However, no promises, express or implied, as to a Parole Commission reward shall be given any weight in evaluating a recommendation for leniency.

(3) The release of the prisoner must not threaten the public safety.

(4) The assistance must not have been adequately rewarded by other official action.

(b) If the assistance meets the above criteria, the Commission may consider providing a reduction of up to one year from the presumptive parole date that the Commission would have deemed warranted had such assistance not occurred. If the prisoner would have been continued to the expiration of sentence, any reduction will be taken from the actual date of the expiration of the sentence. Reductions exceeding the one year limit specified above may be considered only in exceptional circumstances.

(c) In the case of an eligible DC Code prisoner whose assistance meets the criteria of this section, the Commission may consider deducting a point under Category V of the Point Assignment Table at ยง 2.80, in addition to any other deduction for positive program achievement, when considering such prisoner for parole. In the case of a DC Code prisoner with an unserved minimum term, the Commission may consider filing an application under ยง 2.76 for a reduction of up to one-third of such term less applicable good time.
