
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.64 Youth Corrections Act.
###### Approval of program plans.

(b)(1) The criteria outlined in paragraph (d) of this section (on determining successful response to treatment) shall be considered in determining whether a proposed program plan will effectively reduce the risk to the public welfare presented by the YCA prisoner's release.

(2) If the prisoner's program plan has not already been approved by the Commission, the examiner panel shall be given the plan at a hearing for review and approval. The examiners shall indicate their approval or disapproval of the program plan (with relevant comments and recommendations) in the hearing summary.

(3) If the examiners consider the plan inadequate, they will discuss their concerns with institutional staff. If there is still a disagreement on the plan, the case will be referred to the Bureau's regional correctional programs administrator with the recommended changes. Unresolved disputes concerning the adequacy of the program plan shall be decided by the Regional Commissioner and the Regional Director of the Bureau of Prisons. The Regional Commissioner shall render the final decision on approving or disapproving each program plan on behalf of the Commission. Once the program plan has been approved, subsequent approvals are not necessary, unless significant modifications are made by institutional staff.
