
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### § 2.64 Youth Corrections Act.
###### Parole hearings and progress reports.

(c)(1) Initial hearings shall be conducted in accordance with §§ 2.12 and 2.13. The examiner panel will discuss with the prisoner and a staff member who is knowledgeable about the case the program plan and the importance of good conduct and program participation is setting the release date.

(2) An interim hearing must be scheduled for an inmate every nine months if the inmate is serving a sentence of less than seven years. If the inmate is serving a sentence of seven years or more, the interim hearing must be scheduled every twelve months. If the inmate has been continued to the expiration of his sentence, and he has less than twelve months remaining to be served prior to his release or his transfer to a community corrections center, no further hearing is required. In addition, within 60 days of receipt of any special progress report from the warden recommending parole, the prisoner shall be scheduled for a special interim hearing, unless the recommendation can be timely considered at a regularly scheduled interim hearing. An institutional staff member who has personal knowledge of the case shall be present to assist the examiners in their evaluation of the prisoner's conduct, program performance, and response to treatment.

(3) After any interim hearing or review on the record, the Commission may advance the presumptive release date, let the date stand, or retard/rescind the date if the prisoner has committed disciplinary infractions or new criminal conduct.

(4) An interim hearing will not be scheduled after receipt of a progress report, if the Commission decides on the record to parole the prisoner as soon as a release plan is approved (normally within 60 days of the decision).

(5) The institution shall send a progress report to the Commission:

(i) No more than 60 days before each interim hearing;

(ii) Upon determining that a prisoner should be recommended for parole; and

(iii) Before presumptive parole date to allow for the pre-release record review under § 2.14(b).
