
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 56 - INTERNATIONAL ENERGY PROGRAM
#### ยง 56.2 Maintenance of records with respect to meetings held to develop voluntary agreements or plans of action pursuant to the Agreement on an International Energy Program.

(a) The Administrator of the Department of Energy shall keep a verbatim transcript of any meeting held pursuant to this subpart.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) (2) through (4) of this section, potential participants shall keep a full and complete record of any communications (other than in a meeting held pursuant to this subpart) between or among themselves for the purpose of developing a voluntary agreement under this part. When two or more potential participants are involved in such a communication, they may agree among themselves who shall keep such record. Such record shall include the names of the parties to the communication and the organizations, if any, which they represent; the date of the communication; the means of communication; and a description of the communication in sufficient detail to convey adequately its substance.

(2) Where any communication is written (including, but not limited to, telex, telegraphic, telecopied, microfilmed and computer printout material), and where such communication demonstrates on its face that the originator or some other source furnished a copy of the communication to the Office of International Affairs, Department of Energy with the notation "Voluntary Agreement" marked on the first page of the document, no participant need record such a communication or send a further copy to the Department of Energy. The Department of Energy may, upon written notice to potential participants, from time to time, or with reference to particular types of documents, require deposit with other offices or officials of the Department of Energy. Where such communication demonstrates that it was sent to the Office of International Affairs, Department of Energy with the notation "Voluntary Agreement" marked on the first page of the document, or such other offices or officials in the Department of Energy has designated pursuant to this section it shall satisfy paragraph (c) of this section, for the purpose of deposit with the Department of Energy.

(3) To the extent that any communication is procedural, administrative or ministerial (for example, if it involves the location of a record, the place of a meeting, travel arrangements, or similar matters,) only a brief notation of the date, time, persons involved and description of the communication need be recorded.

(4) To the extent that any communication involves matters which recapitulate matters already contained in a full and complete record, the substance of such matters shall be identified, but need not be recorded in detail, provided that reference is made to the record and the portion thereof in which the substance is fully set out.

(c) Except where the Department of Energy otherwise provides, all records and transcripts prepared pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, shall be deposited within fifteen (15) days after the close of the month of their preparation together with any agreement resulting therefrom, with the Department of Energy, and shall be available to the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Department of State. Such records and transcripts shall be available for public inspection and copying at the Department of Energy. Any person depositing material with the Department of Energy pursuant to this section shall indicate with particularity what portions, if any, the person believes are subject to disclosure to the public pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552 and the reasons for such belief.
