
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.64 Youth Corrections Act.
###### Criteria for finding successful response to treatment programs.

(d)(1) In determining whether a prisoner has successfully "responded to treatment" the Commission shall examine whether the prisoner has shown that he has received sufficient corrective training, counseling, education, and therapy that the public would not be endangered by his release. See former 18 U.S.C. 5006(f) (definition of "treatment" under the YCA). The Bureau of Prisons shall assist the Commission in this determination by informing the Commission when the prisoner has completed his program plan and by advising the Commission of the quality of effort demonstrated by the prisoner in completing the plan.

(2) In determining the extent of a prisoner's positive response to treatment, the Commission shall examine the degree by which the prisoner has increased the likelihood that his release would not jeopardize public welfare through his program performance and conduct record. See 18 U.S.C. 4206(a)(2). The starting report for the analysis of a prisoner's response to treatment will be the original parole prognosis reached by the use of the salient factor score, and an evaluation of the nature of the prisoner's prior criminal history and other characteristics of the prisoner. The nature of the current offense may also be considered in determining the risk to the public welfare presented by the prisoner's release. The Commission will then proceed to evaluate whether the prisoner's program participation and institutional conduct has improved the original risk prognosis and evidences an alteration of his valued system, including an understanding of the wrongfulness of his past criminal conduct. For those prisoners who have exhibited serious or violent criminal behavior, the Commission will exercise more caution in making a finding that the prisoner has responded to treatment to the degree that he should be released.

(3) With regard to program performance, significant weight will be given to the following factors in determining a prisoner's response to treatment. This is not intended as an exhaustive list.
