
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart A - United States Code Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.64 Youth Corrections Act.
###### deny

(2) A YCA parolee shall not be continued on supervision beyond the time periods specified in the early termination guidelines (ยง 2.43), unless case-specific factors indicate further supervision is warranted. The guidelines at ยง 2.43 shall not be routinely used toearly discharge to a YCA parolee who has yet to complete two (or three) years of clean supervision.

(3) The Commission shall consider the facts and circumstances of each YCA parolee's case, focusing on the risk he poses to the public and the benefit he may obtain from further supervision. The nature of the offense and parolee's past criminal record shall be taken into account only to evaluate the risk that the parolee may still pose to the public.

(4) In denying early discharge, the Commission shall inform the probation office by letter (with a copy to the YCA parolee) of the reasons for continued supervision. The reasons should pertain, whenever possible, to the facts and circumstances of the YCA parolee's case. If there are no case-specific factors which indicate that discharge should be either granted to denied and further supervision appears warranted, the Commission may inform the YCA parolee that he is continued on supervision because of its experience with similarly situated offenders.
