
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 61 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Appendix A to Part 61 - Bureau of Prisons Procedures Relating to the Implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act
##### Reference: ยง 1501.2(d)(1)-CEQ Regulations,Reference: ยง 1501.2(d)(2)-CEQ Regulations

4. () The Bureau of Prisons shall make available the necessary technical staff to review proposals and prepare feasibility studies for facilities under consideration for possible use as Federal correctional institutions. () At the appropriate time after project funding approval, the Bureau of Prisons, having identified a preferred general area for a new facility, will inform the members of Congress representing the affected locale of the intent to pursue the establishment of a Federal correctional institution in the area. This activation might include but not be limited to: (1) The construction of a new facility; (2) or Surplus Federal, state, or local facility to the Bureau of Prisons for prior use. The Bureau of Prisons shall advise and inform interested parties concerning proposed plans which might result in implementation of the NEPA regulations. After initial informal contacts have been made, the Bureau of Prisons will with the aid of local area officials, begin to identify desired locations for the proposed new facility. In the event of proposed activation of an existing facility for prison use, the Bureau of Prisons shall seek initial involvement among local officials and advice on alternative courses of action.

In either case, if the issues appear significantly controversial, an informal public hearing will be held to present the issues to the community and seek their involvement in the planning process. Upon completion of the preliminary groundwork described above, the Bureau of Prisons will issue an A-95 letter of intent to (1) either file an EIS; (2) file an EIA; or (3) discontinue the efforts of locating a facility in the proposed area.
