
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 61 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Appendix A to Part 61 - Bureau of Prisons Procedures Relating to the Implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act
##### Bureau of Prisons Decisionmaking Procedures: (Reference: Part 1501.1 (a) through (e)-CEQ Regulations)

7.Major decision points likely to involve the NEPA process:

(1) Construction of a new Federal correctional institution.

(2) Closing of an existing Federal correctional institution.

(3) Activation of a surplus facility for conversion to a Federal correctional institution.

(4) Significant change from the original mission of a Federal correctional institution.

(5) New construction at an existing Federal correctional institution which might significantly impact upon the existing community environment.

When the inclusion of certain voluminous data in environmental documents would prove impractical, the Bureau of Prisons will summarize the data and retain the original material as a part of its administrative record for the project. This material will be made available to the public in a central place to be designated in Environmental Impact Statements, and upon written request or court order copies of specified material will be provided. A charge may be made for copying, in accordance with current Department of Justice guidelines for reproduction of records.

Decisionmakers shall verify the consideration of all available options in the EIS with a comparative analysis of the alternatives to be considered in the decisionmaking process.
