
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 61 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Appendix A to Part 61 - Bureau of Prisons Procedures Relating to the Implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act
##### Emergency Actions: (Reference: Part 1506.11-CEQ Regulations).

11.After consultation with the Council on Environmental Quality regarding alternative courses of action, the Bureau of Prisons may take action without observing the provisions of the CEQ Regulations and these Bureau of Prisons Procedures in the following cases:

(1) When the replacement of suddenly unavailable local utilities services, and/or resources, due to circumstances beyond the control of the Bureau of Prisons, is vital to the lives and safety of inmates and staff or protection of U.S. Government property.

(2) When unforeseen circumstances, such as greatly increased judicial commitments, suddenly dictate the activation of facilities to house increased numbers of Federal offenders and detainees significantly above the physical capacity of the combined Bureau of Prisons facilities in order to insure the lives and safety of inmates and staff or protection of U.S. Government property.

(3) When the sudden destruction of or damage to institutions dictates immediate replacement in order to protect the lives and safety of inmates and staff and protection of U.S. Government property.

12. Review.

(1) If a proposed action is not covered by Sections 8 through 10 of this appendix, the Bureau of Prisons will independently determine whether to prepare either an environmental impact statement or an environmental assessment.

(2) When a proposed action that could be classified as a categorical exclusion under Section 9 of this appendix involves extraordinary circumstances that may affect the environment, the Bureau shall conduct appropriate environmental studies to determine if the categorical exclusion classification is proper for that proposed action.
