
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 61 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Appendix C to Part 61 - Immigration and Naturalization Service Procedures Relating to the Implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act
##### Preparation of the environmental impact statements.

(b)(1) Situations where Environmental Impact Statements (EIS) are required are described in section 102(2)(C) of NEPA. EIS constitute an integral of the plan formulation process and serve as a summation and evaluation of the effects, both beneficial and adverse, that each alternative action would have on the environment, and as an explanation and objective evaluation of the plan which is finally recommended.

(2) Should the Chief Engineer determine in assessing the impact of a minor action that an environmental statement is not required, the determination to that effect will be placed in the project file. This negative determination shall be made available to the public as required in ยง 1506.6 of the CEQ regulations and shall include a statement of the facts and the basis for the decision.

(3) When inclusion of certain voluminous data in an EIS would prove to be impractical, INS will summarize the data and retain the original material as a part of its administrative record for the project. This material will be made available to the public in a central place to be designated in the EIS, and upon written request or court order, copies of specified material will be provided. A charge for the reproduction of records may be made in accordance with current Department of Justice guidelines. (Reference: Part 1505 CEQ Regulations.)
