
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 61 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Appendix D to Part 61 - Office of Justice Assistance, Research, and Statistics Procedures Relating to the Implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act
##### et seq.,,et seq.,,et seq.,

These procedures are issued pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4321,Regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality, 40 CFR part 1500,the Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4371,Section 309 of the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7609, and Executive Order 11514, "Protection and Enhancement of Environmental Quality," March 5, 1970, as amended by Executive Order 11991, March 24, 1977.

It is the purpose of these procedures to supplement the procedures of the Department of Justice so as to insure compliance with NEPA. These procedures supersede the regulations contained in 28 CFR part 19.

The Office of Justice Assistance, Research, and Statistics (OJARS) assists State and local units of government in strengthening and improving law enforcement and criminal justice by providing financial assistance and funding research and statistical programs. OJARS will coordinate the activities and provide the staff support for three Department of Justice Federal financial assistance offices: the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, the National Institute of Justice, and the Bureau of Justice Statistics. Each of the assistance offices has the authority to award grants, contracts and cooperative agreements pursuant to the Justice System Improvement Act of 1979, Public Law 96-157 (December 27, 1979).

(a) Actions which normally require an environmental impact statement.

(1) None.

(b) Actions which normally do not require either an environmental impact statement or an environmental assessment.

(1) The bulk of the funded efforts; training programs, court improvement projects, research, and gathering statistical data.

(2) Minor renovation projects or remodeling.

(c) Actions which normally require environmental assessments but not necessarily environmental impact statements.

(1) Renovations which change the basic prior use of a facility or significantly change the size.

(2) New construction.

(3) Research and technology whose anticipated and future application could be expected to have an effect on the environment.

(4) Implementation of programs involving the use of chemicals.

(5) Other actions in which it is determined by the Administrator, Law Enforcement Assistance Administration; the Director, Bureau of Justice Statistics; or the Director, National Institute of Justice, to be necessary and appropriate.

An environmental coordinator shall be designated in the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, and in the National Institute of Justice. Duties of the environmental coordinator shall include:

(a) Insuring that adequate environmental assessments are prepared at the earliest possible time by applicants on all programs or projects that may have a significant impact on the environment. The assessments shall contain documentation from independent parties with expertise in the particular environmental matter when deemed appropriate. The coordinator shall return assessments that are found to be inadequate.

(b) Reviewing the environmental assessments and determining whether an Environmental Impact Statement is required or preparing a "Finding of No Significant Impact."

(c) Coordinating the efforts for the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement consistent with the requirements of 40 CFR part 1502.

(d) Cooperating and coordinating efforts with other Federal agencies.

(e) Providing for agency training on environmental matters.

To the extent possible an environmental assessment, as well as an environmental impact statement, shall include information necessary to assure compliance with the following:
