
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 61 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Appendix F to Part 61 - Federal Bureau of Investigation Procedures Relating to the Implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act
##### Responsibility for NEPA Analysis.

(b)(1) The FBI's responsibility for NEPA review of actions shall be determined on a case-by-case basis depending on the extent to which the entire project is within the FBI's jurisdiction and on other factors. For example, factors relevant to whether construction of a facility is within FBI's jurisdiction include the following: The extent of FBI control and funding in the construction or use of the facility, whether the facility is being built solely for FBI requirements, and whether the project would proceed without FBI action.

(2) The extent of the FBI's responsibility for NEPA review of joint Federal actions, where the FBI and another Federal agency are cooperating on a project, shall be determined on a case-by-case basis depending on which agency is designated as the lead agency and which is the cooperating agency.

(3) In cases where FBI actions are a component of a larger project involving a private action or an action by a local or state government, the FBI's proposed action analyzed in the NEPA document shall include only the portions of the project over which the FBI has sufficient control and responsibility to warrant Federal review. However, the cumulative impacts analysis shall account for past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future activities affecting the same natural resources as the FBI project. When actions are planned by private or other non-Federal entities, the FBI shall provide the potential applicant reasonably foreseeable requirements for studies or other information for subsequent FBI action. In addition, the FBI shall consult early with appropriate state and local agencies, tribal entities, interested private persons, and organizations when its own involvement is reasonably foreseeable.

(4) Whenever appropriate and practicable, the FBI shall incorporate by reference and rely upon the environmental analyses and reviews of other Federal, tribal, state, and local agencies.
