
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 61 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Appendix F to Part 61 - Federal Bureau of Investigation Procedures Relating to the Implementation of the National Environmental Policy Act
##### List of No REC Determination Form Required (NR) FBI CATEXs.

(c)(NR1) Reductions, realignments, or relocation of personnel, equipment, or mobile assets that does not result in changing the use of the space in such a way that could cause environmental effects or exceed the infrastructure capacity outside of FBI-managed property. An example of exceeding the infrastructure capacity would be an increase in vehicular traffic beyond the capacity of the supporting road network to accommodate such an increase.

(NR2) Personnel, fiscal, management, and administrative activities, including recruiting, processing, paying, contract administration, recordkeeping, budgeting, personnel actions, and travel.

(NR3) Decisions to close facilities, decommission equipment, or temporarily discontinue use of facilities or equipment, where the facility or equipment is not used to prevent or control environmental impacts. This requirement excludes demolition actions.

(NR4) Preparation of policies, procedures, manuals, and other guidance documents for which the environmental effects are too broad, speculative, or conjectural to lend themselves to meaningful analysis and for which the applicability of the NEPA process will be evaluated upon implementation, either collectively or case by case.

(NR5) Grants of licenses, easements, or similar arrangements for use by vehicles (not to include substantial increases in the number of vehicles loaded); electrical, telephone, and other transmission and communication lines; and pipelines, pumping stations, and facilities for water, wastewater, stormwater, and irrigation; and for similar utility and transportation uses. Construction or acquisition of new facilities is not included.

(NR6) Acquisition, installation, operation, and maintenance of temporary equipment, devices, or controls necessary to mitigate effects of the FBI's missions on health and the environment. This CATEX is not intended to cover facility construction or related activities. Examples include:

(i) Temporary sediment and erosion control measures required to meet applicable Federal, tribal, state, or local requirements;

(ii) Installation of temporary diversion fencing to prevent earth disturbances within sensitive areas during construction activities; and

(iii) Installation of temporary markers to delineate limits of earth disturbances in forested areas to prevent unnecessary tree removal.

(NR7) Routine flying operations and infrequent, temporary (fewer than 30 days) increases in aircraft operations up to 50 percent of the typical FBI aircraft operation rate.

(NR8) Proposed new activities and operations to be conducted in an existing structure that would be consistent with previously established safety levels and would not result in a change in use of the facility. Examples include new types of research, development, testing, and evaluation activities, and laboratory operations conducted within existing enclosed facilities designed to support research and development activities.

(NR9) Conducting audits and surveys; data collection; data analysis; and processing, permitting, information dissemination, review, interpretation, and development of documents. If any of these activities results in proposals for further action, those proposals must be covered by an appropriate CATEX or other NEPA analysis. Examples include:

(i) Document mailings, publication, and distribution, training and information programs, historical and cultural demonstrations, and public affairs actions;

(ii) Studies, reports, proposals, analyses, literature reviews, computer modeling, and intelligence gathering and sharing;

(iii) Activities designed to support improvement or upgrade management of natural resources, such as surveys for threatened and endangered species or cultural resources; wetland delineations; and minimal water, air, waste, and soil sampling;

(iv) Minimally intrusive geological, geophysical, and geo-technical activities, including mapping and engineering surveys;

(v) Conducting facility audits, Environmental Site Assessments, and environmental baseline surveys; and

(vi) Vulnerability, risk, and structural integrity assessments of infrastructure.

(NR10) Routine procurement, use, storage, and disposal of non-hazardous goods and services in support of administrative, operational, or maintenance activities in accordance with executive orders and Federal procurement guidelines. Examples include:

(i) Office supplies and furniture;

(ii) Equipment;
