
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart B - Transfer Treaty Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.68 Prisoners transferred pursuant to treaty.
###### Applicability, jurisdiction and statutory interpretation.

(a)(1) Prisoners transferred pursuant to treaty (transferees) who committed their offenses on or after November 1, 1987, shall receive a special transferee hearing pursuant to the procedures found in this section and 18 U.S.C. 4106A. Transferees who committed their offenses prior to November 1, 1987, are immediately eligible for parole and shall receive a parole hearing pursuant to procedures found at 28 CFR 2.13. The Parole Commission shall treat the foreign conviction as though it were a lawful conviction in a United States District Court.

(2) The jurisdiction of the Commission to set a release date and periods and conditions of supervised release extends until the transferee is released from prison or the transferee's case is otherwise transferred to a district court pursuant to an order of the Commission.

(3) It is the Commission's interpretation of 18 U.S.C. 4106A that every transferee is entitled to a release date determination by the Commission after considering the applicable sentencing guidelines in effect at the time of the hearing. Upon release from imprisonment the transferee may be required to serve a period of supervised release pursuant to section 5D1.2 of the sentencing guidelines. The combination of the period of imprisonment that results from the release date set by the Commission and the period of supervised release shall not exceed the full term of the sentence imposed by the foreign court. The combined periods of imprisonment and supervised release may be less than the full term of the sentence imposed by the foreign court unless the applicable treaty is found to require otherwise.

(4) The applicable offense guideline provision is determined by selecting the offense in the U.S. Code that is most similar to the offense for which the transferee was convicted in the foreign court. In so doing, the Commission considers itself required by law and treaty to respect the offense definitions contained in the foreign criminal code under which the prisoner was convicted, as well as the official documents supplied by the foreign court.

(5) The release date that is determined by the Commission under 18 U.S.C. 4106A(b)(1)(A) is a prison release determination and does not represent the imposition of a new sentence for the transferee. However, the release date shall be treated by the Bureau of Prisons as if it were the full term date of a sentence for the purpose of establishing a release date pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4105(c)(1). The Bureau of Prisons release date shall supersede the release date established by the Parole Commission under 18 U.S.C. 4106A and shall be the date upon which the transferee's period of supervised release commences. If the Commission has ordered "continue to expiration," the 4106A release date is the same as the full term date of the foreign sentence. It is the Commission's interpretation of 18 U.S.C. 4105(c)(1) that the deduction of service credits in either case does not operate to reduce the foreign sentence or otherwise limit the Parole Commission's authority to establish a period of supervised release extending from the date of actual release from prison to the full term date of the foreign sentence.

(6) If the Commission sets a release date under 18 U.S.C. 4106A(b)(1)(A) that is earlier than the mandatory release date established by the Bureau of Prisons under 18 U.S.C. 4105(c)(1), then the release date set by the Commission controls. If the release date set by the Commission under 18 U.S.C. 4106A(b)(1)(A) is equal to or later than the mandatory release date established by the Bureau of Prisons under 18 U.S.C. 4105(c)(1), then the mandatory release date established by the Bureau of Prisons controls.
