
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 68 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES IN CASES INVOLVING ALLEGATIONS OF UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS, UNFAIR IMMIGRATION-RELATED EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, AND DOCUMENT FRAUD
#### ยง 68.7 Form of pleadings.

(a) Every pleading shall contain a caption setting forth the statutory provision under which the proceeding is instituted, the title of the proceeding, the docket number assigned by the Office of the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, the names of all parties (or, after the complaint, at least the first party named as a complainant or respondent), and a designation of the type of pleading (e.g., complaint, motion to dismiss). The pleading shall be signed, dated, and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or person representing the party. The pleading shall be on standard size (8x 11) paper and should also be typewritten when possible.

(b) A complaint filed pursuant to section 274A, 274B, or 274C of the INA shall contain the following:

(1) A clear and concise statement of facts, upon which an assertion of jurisdiction is predicated;

(2) The names and addresses of the respondents, agents, and/or their representatives who have been alleged to have committed the violation;

(3) The alleged violations of law, with a clear and concise statement of facts for each violation alleged to have occurred; and,

(4) A short statement containing the remedies and/or sanctions sought to be imposed against the respondent.

(5) The complaint must be accompanied by a statement identifying the party or parties to be served by the Office of the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer with notice of the complaint pursuant to ยง 68.3.

(c) Complaints filed pursuant to sections 274A and 274C of the INA shall be signed by an attorney and shall be accompanied by a copy of the Notice of Intent to Fine and Request for Hearing. Complaints filed pursuant to section 274B of the INA shall be accompanied by a copy of the charge, previously filed with the Special Counsel pursuant to section 274B(b)(1), and a copy of the Special Counsel's letter of determination regarding the charges.

(d) Illegible documents, whether handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, or otherwise, will not be accepted. Papers may be reproduced by any duplicating process, provided that all copies are clear and legible.

(e) All documents presented by a party in a proceeding must be in the English language or, if in a foreign language, accompanied by a certified translation.
