
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart B - Transfer Treaty Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.68 Prisoners transferred pursuant to treaty.
###### Hearing procedures.

(h)Special transferee hearings shall be conducted by a hearing examiner. Each special transferee hearing shall be recorded by the hearing examiner. The following procedures shall apply at a special transferee proceeding, unless waived by the transferee:

(1) The examiner shall inquire whether the transferee and his counsel have had an opportunity to read and discuss the postsentence investigation report and whether the transferee is prepared to go forward with the hearing. If not, the transferee shall be given the opportunity to continue the hearing.

(2) The transferee shall have an opportunity to present documentary evidence and to testify on his own behalf.

(3) Oral testimony of interested parties may be taken with prior advance permission of the Regional Commissioner.

(4) The transferee and his counsel shall be afforded the opportunity to comment upon the guideline estimate contained in the postsentence investigation report (and the addendum, if any), and to present arguments and information relating to the Commission's final guideline determination and decision.

(5) Disputes of material fact shall be resolved by a preponderance of the evidence, with written recommended findings by the examiner unless the examiner determines, on the record, not to take the controverted matter into account.

(6) The transferee shall be notified of the examiner's recommended findings of fact, and the examiner's recommended determination and reasons therefore, at the conclusion of the hearing. The case shall thereafter be reviewed by a second hearing examiner, and the Commission shall make its determination upon a panel recommendation.
