
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart B - Transfer Treaty Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.68 Prisoners transferred pursuant to treaty.
###### Final decision.

(i)(1) The Commission shall render a decision as soon as practicable and without unnecessary delay. Upon review of the examiner panel recommendation, the Commissioner may make the decision by concurring with the panel recommendation. If the Commissioner does not concur, the Commissioner shall refer the case to another Commissioner and the decision shall be made on the concurring votes of two Commissioners. The decision shall set a release date and a period and conditions of supervised release. If the Commission determines that the appropriate release date under 18 U.S.C. 4106A is the full term date of the foreign sentence, the Commission will order the transferee to "continue to expiration."

(2) Whenever the Bureau of Prisons applies service credits under 18 U.S.C. 4105 to a release date established by the Commission, the release date used by the Bureau of Prisons shall be the date established by the Parole Commission pursuant to the sentencing guidelines and not a date that resulted from any adjustment made to achieve comparable punishment with a similarly-situated U.S. Code offender. The application of service credits under 18 U.S.C. 4105 shall supersede any previous release date set by the Commission. The Commission may, for the purpose of facilitating the application of service credits by the Bureau of Prisons, reopen any case on the record to clarify the correct release date to be used, and the period of supervised release to be served.

(3) The Commission may, in its discretion, defer a decision and order a rehearing, provided that a statement of the reason for ordering a rehearing is issued to the transferee and the transferee's counsel (if any).

(4) The Commission's final decision shall be supported by a statement of reasons explaining:

(i) The similar offense selected as the basis for the Commission's decision;

(ii) The basis for the guideline range applied; and

(iii) The reason for making a release determination above or below the guideline range. If the release date is within a guideline range that exceeds twenty-four months, the Commission shall identify the reason for the release date selected.
