
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 68 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES IN CASES INVOLVING ALLEGATIONS OF UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS, UNFAIR IMMIGRATION-RELATED EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, AND DOCUMENT FRAUD
#### ยง 68.22 Depositions.
##### When, how, and by whom taken.

(b)The following procedures shall apply to depositions:

(1) Depositions may be taken by oral examination or upon written interrogatories before any person having power to administer oaths. The party taking a deposition upon oral examination shall state in the notice the method by which the testimony shall be recorded. Unless the Administrative Law Judge orders otherwise, it may be recorded by sound, sound-and-visual, or stenographic means, and the party taking the deposition shall bear the cost of the recording. Any party may arrange for a transcription to be made from the recording of a deposition taken by non-stenographic means.

(2) Each witness testifying upon deposition shall testify under oath and any other party shall have the right to cross-examine. The questions asked and the answers thereto, together with all objections made, shall be recorded as provided by paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The person administering the oath shall certify in writing that the transcript or recording is a true record of the testimony given by the witness. The witness shall review the transcript or recording within thirty (30) days of notification that it is available and subscribe in writing to the deposition, indicating in writing any changes in form or substance, unless such review is waived by the witness and the parties by stipulation.
