
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart B - Transfer Treaty Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.68 Prisoners transferred pursuant to treaty.
###### Reopening or modification of a determination prior to transfer of jurisdiction.

(k)(1) A hearing and assistance of counsel will be provided to the transferee whenever a case is reopened under subparagraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5) below unless:

(i) Waived by the transferee; or

(ii) The action to be taken is favorable and no factual issue must be resolved.

(2) The Commission may reopen and modify a determination based upon information which was not previously considered. Such information must, however, be contained in the record of the foreign sentencing court.

(3) The Commission may reopen and modify a determination of the terms and conditions of supervised release. Modifications may include approval or disapproval of the transferee's release plan.

(4) The Commission shall reopen and modify a determination that has been found on appeal to have been imposed in violation of the law, to have been imposed as a result of an incorrect application of the sentencing guidelines, or to have been unreasonable.

(5) The Commission may reopen and modify a determination upon consideration of the factors listed in section 5K1.1 of the sentencing guidelines if the transferee provides substantial assistance to law enforcement authorities, and that assistance was not previously considered by the Commission. The Commission will treat a request from a foreign or a domestic law enforcement authority as the equivalent of a "motion of the government."

(6) The Commission may modify a determination based upon a clerical mistake or other error in accordance with Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure Rule 36.

(7) The Commission may reopen and modify the release date if it determines that a circumstance set forth in 18 U.S.C. 3582(c) is satisfied.
