
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 68 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES IN CASES INVOLVING ALLEGATIONS OF UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS, UNFAIR IMMIGRATION-RELATED EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, AND DOCUMENT FRAUD
#### ยง 68.33 Participation of parties and representation.
##### Representation for parties other than the Department of Justice.

(c)Persons who may appear before the Administrative Law Judges on behalf of parties other than the Department of Justice include:

(1) An attorney at law who is admitted to practice before the federal courts or before the highest court of any state, the District of Columbia, or any territory or commonwealth of the United States, may practice before the Administrative Law Judges. An attorney's own representation that the attorney is in good standing before any of such courts shall be sufficient proof thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge.

(2) A law student, enrolled in an accredited law school, may practice before an Administrative Law Judge. The law student must seek advance approval by filing a statement with the Administrative Law Judge proving current participation in a legal assistance program or clinic conducted by the law school. Practice before the Administrative Law Judge shall be under direct supervision of a faculty member or an attorney. An appearance by a law student shall be without direct or indirect remuneration. The Administrative Law Judge may determine the amount of supervision required of the supervising faculty member or attorney.

(3) An individual who is neither an attorney nor a law student may be allowed to provide representation to a party upon a written order from the Administrative Law Judge assigned to the case granting approval of the representation. The individual must file a written application with the Administrative Law Judge demonstrating that the individual possesses the knowledge of administrative procedures, technical expertise, or other qualifications necessary to render valuable service in the proceedings and is otherwise competent to advise and assist in the presentation of matters in the proceedings.
