
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 68 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES IN CASES INVOLVING ALLEGATIONS OF UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS, UNFAIR IMMIGRATION-RELATED EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, AND DOCUMENT FRAUD
#### ยง 68.38 Motion for summary decision.

(a) A complainant, not fewer than thirty (30) days after receipt by respondent of the complaint, may move with or without supporting affidavits for summary decision on all or any part of the complaint. Motions by any party for summary decision on all or any part of the complaint will not be entertained within the twenty (20) days prior to any hearing, unless the Administrative Law Judge decides otherwise. Any other party, within ten (10) days after service of a motion for summary decision, may respond to the motion by serving supporting or opposing papers with affidavits, if appropriate, or countermove for summary decision. The Administrative Law Judge may set the matter for argument and/or call for submission of briefs.

(b) Any affidavits submitted with the motion shall set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence in a proceeding subject to 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557 and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein. When a motion for summary decision is made and supported as provided in this section, a party opposing the motion may not rest upon the mere allegations or denials of such pleading. Such response must set forth specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue of fact for the hearing.

(c) The Administrative Law Judge shall enter a summary decision for either party if the pleadings, affidavits, material obtained by discovery or otherwise, or matters officially noticed show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that a party is entitled to summary decision.
