
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 68 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES IN CASES INVOLVING ALLEGATIONS OF UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS, UNFAIR IMMIGRATION-RELATED EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, AND DOCUMENT FRAUD
#### ยง 68.40 Evidence.
##### Admissibility.

(b)All relevant material and reliable evidence is admissible, but may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by unfair prejudice or confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, immateriality, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence. Stipulations of fact may be introduced in evidence with respect to any issue. Every party shall have the right to present his/her case or defense by oral or documentary evidence, depositions, and duly authenticated copies of records and documents; to submit rebuttal evidence; and to conduct such reasonable cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts. The Administrative Law Judge shall have the right in his/her discretion to limit the number of witnesses whose testimony may be merely cumulative and shall, as a matter of policy, not only exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence but shall also limit the cross-examination of witnesses to reasonable bounds so as not to prolong the hearing unnecessarily, and unduly burden the record. Material and relevant evidence shall not be excluded because it is not the best evidence, unless its authenticity is challenged, in which case reasonable time shall be given to establish its authenticity. When only portions of a document are to be relied upon, the offering party shall prepare the pertinent excerpts, adequately identified, and shall supply copies of such excerpts, together with a statement indicating the purpose for which such materials will be offered, to the Administrative Law Judge and to the other parties. Only the excerpts, so prepared and submitted, shall be received in the record. However, the original document should be made available for examination and for use by opposing counsel for purposes of cross-examination. Compilations, charts, summaries of data, and photostatic copies of documents may be admitted in evidence if the proceedings will thereby be expedited, and if the material upon which they are based is available for examination by the parties.
