
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 68 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES IN CASES INVOLVING ALLEGATIONS OF UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS, UNFAIR IMMIGRATION-RELATED EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, AND DOCUMENT FRAUD
#### ยง 68.52 Final order of the Administrative Law Judge.
##### Contents of final order with respect to unlawful employment of unauthorized aliens.

(c)(1) If, upon the preponderance of the evidence, the Administrative Law Judge determines that a person or entity named in the complaint has violated section 274A(a)(1)(A) or (a)(2) of the INA, the final order shall require the person or entity to cease and desist from such violations and to pay a civil penalty in an amount of:

(i) Not less than $275 and not more than $2,200 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom there was a violation of either such paragraph occurring before March 27, 2008; not less than $375 and not more than $3,200 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom there was a violation of either such paragraph occurring on or after March 27, 2008;

(ii) In the case of a person or entity previously subject to one final order under this paragraph (c)(1), not less than $2,200 and not more than $5,500 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom there was a violation of either such paragraph occurring before March 27, 2008, and not less than $3,200 and not more than $6,500 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom there was a violation of either such paragraph occurring on or after March 27, 2008; or

(iii) In the case of a person or entity previously subject to more than one final order under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, not less than $3,300 and not more than $11,000 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom there was a violation of each such paragraph occurring before March 27, 2008, and not less than $4,300 and not more than $16,000 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom there was a violation of each such paragraph occurring on or after March 27, 2008.

(2) The final order may also require the respondent to participate in, and comply with the terms of, one of the pilot programs set forth in Pub. L. 104-208, Div. C, sections 401-05, 110 Stat. 3009, 3009-655 to 3009-665 (1996) (codified at 8 U.S.C. 1324a (note)), with respect to the respondent's hiring or recruitment or referral of individuals in a state (as defined in section 101(a)(36) of the INA) covered by such a program.

(3) The final order may also require the respondent to comply with the requirements of section 274A(b) of the INA with respect to individuals hired (or recruited or referred for employment for a fee) during a period of up to three years; and to take such other remedial action as is appropriate.

(4) In the case of a person or entity composed of distinct, physically separate subdivisions, each of which provides separately for the hiring, recruiting, or referring for employment, without reference to the practices of, and under the control of, or common control with, another subdivision, each such subdivision shall be considered a separate person or entity.

(5) If, upon a preponderance of the evidence, the Administrative Law Judge determines that a person or entity named in the complaint has violated section 274A(a)(1)(B) of the INA, except as set forth in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, the final order under this paragraph shall require the person or entity to pay a civil penalty in an amount of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000 for each individual with respect to whom such violation occurred before March 15, 1999, and not less than $110 and not more than $1,100 for each individual with respect to whom such violation occurred on or after March 15, 1999. In determining the amount of the penalty, due consideration shall be given to the size of the business of the employer being charged, the good faith of the employer, the seriousness of the violation, whether or not the individual was an unauthorized alien, and the history of previous violations.

(6) With respect to a violation of section 274A(a)(1)(B) of the INA where a person or entity participating in a pilot program has failed to provide notice of final nonconfirmation of employment eligibility of an individual to the Attorney General as required by Pub. L. 104-208, Div. C, section 403(a)(4)(C), 110 Stat. 3009, 3009-661 (1996) (codified at 8 U.S.C. 1324a (note)), the final order under this paragraph shall require the person or entity to pay a civil penalty in an amount of not less than $500 and not more than $1,000 for each individual with respect to whom such violation occurred before March 27, 2008, and not less than $550 and not more than $1,100 for each individual with respect to whom such violation occurred on or after March 27, 2008.
