
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 68 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES IN CASES INVOLVING ALLEGATIONS OF UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS, UNFAIR IMMIGRATION-RELATED EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, AND DOCUMENT FRAUD
#### ยง 68.52 Final order of the Administrative Law Judge.
##### Civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016.

(2)For civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, whose associated violations described in paragraph (d) of this section occurred after November 2, 2015, the applicable civil penalty amounts are set forth in 28 CFR 85.5.

(3) Back pay liability shall not accrue from a date more than two years prior to the date of the filing of a charge with the Special Counsel. In no event shall back pay accrue from before November 6, 1986. Interim earnings or amounts earnable with reasonable diligence by the individual or individuals discriminated against shall operate to reduce the back pay otherwise allowable. No order shall require the hiring of an individual as an employee, or the payment to an individual of any back pay, if the individual was refused employment for any reason other than discrimination on account of national origin or citizenship status unless it is determined that an unfair immigration-related employment practice exists under section 274B(a)(5) of the INA.

(4) In applying paragraph (d) of this section in the case of a person or entity composed of distinct, physically separate subdivisions, each of which provides separately for the hiring, recruiting, or referring for employment, without reference to the practices of, and not under the control of or common control with another subdivision, each such subdivision shall be considered a separate person or entity.

(5) If, upon the preponderance of the evidence, the Administrative Law Judge determines that a person or entity named in the complaint has not engaged in and is not engaging in an unfair immigration-related employment practice, then the final order shall dismiss the complaint.
