
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 68 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES IN CASES INVOLVING ALLEGATIONS OF UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS, UNFAIR IMMIGRATION-RELATED EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, AND DOCUMENT FRAUD
#### ยง 68.55 Referral of cases arising under sections 274A or 274C to the Attorney General for review.
##### Request by Secretary of Homeland Security for review by the Attorney General.

(b)The Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall promptly refer to the Attorney General for review any final order in cases arising under sections 274A or 274C of the INA at the request of the Secretary of Homeland Security within thirty (30) days of the entry of a final order modifying or vacating the Administrative Law Judge's final order or within sixty (60) days of the entry of an Administrative Law Judge's final order, if the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer does not modify or vacate the Administrative Law Judge's final order.

(1) The Department of Homeland Security must first seek review of an Administrative Law Judge's final order by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, in accordance with ยง 68.54 before the Secretary of Homeland Security may request that an Administrative Law Judge's final order be referred to the Attorney General for review.

(2) To request referral of a final order to the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security must submit a written request to the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer and transmit copies of the request to all other parties to the case and to the Administrative Law Judge at the time the request is made. The written statement shall contain a succinct statement of the reasons the case should be reviewed by the Attorney General and the grounds for appeal.

(3) The Attorney General, in the exercise of the Attorney General's discretion, may accept the Secretary of Homeland Security's request for referral of the case for review by issuing a written notice of acceptance within sixty (60) days of the date of the request. Copies of such written notice shall be transmitted to all parties in the case and to the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer.
