
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 68 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES IN CASES INVOLVING ALLEGATIONS OF UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS, UNFAIR IMMIGRATION-RELATED EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, AND DOCUMENT FRAUD
#### ยง 68.55 Referral of cases arising under sections 274A or 274C to the Attorney General for review.
##### Review by the Attorney General.

(c)When a final order of an Administrative Law Judge or the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer is referred to the Attorney General pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or a referral is accepted in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Attorney General shall review the final order pursuant to section 274A(e)(7) or 274C(d)(4) of the INA and 5 U.S.C. 557. No specific time limit is established for the Attorney General's review.

(1) All parties shall be given the opportunity to submit briefs or other written statements pursuant to a schedule established by the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer or the Attorney General.

(2) The Attorney General shall enter an order that adopts, modifies, vacates, or remands the final order under review. The Attorney General's order shall be stated in writing and shall be transmitted to all parties in the case and to the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer.

(3) If the Attorney General remands the case for further administrative proceedings, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer or the Administrative Law Judge shall conduct further proceedings consistent with the Attorney General's order. Any subsequent final order of the Administrative Law Judge or the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer shall be subject to administrative review in accordance with ยง 68.54 and this section.
