
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart C - District of Columbia Code: Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.76 Reduction in minimum sentence.

(a) A prisoner who has served three or more years of the minimum term of his or her sentence may request the Commission to file an application with the sentencing court for a reduction in the minimum term pursuant to D.C. Code 24-401c. The prisoner's request to the Commission shall be in writing and shall state the reasons that the prisoner believes such request should be granted. The Commission shall require the submission of a special progress report before approving such a request.

(b) A prisoner's request under this section may be approved on the vote of one Commissioner.

(c) Pursuant to D.C. Code 24-401c, the Commission may file an application to the sentencing court for a reduction of a prisoner's minimum term if the Commission finds that:

(1) The prisoner has completed three years of the minimum term imposed by the court;

(2) The prisoner has shown, by report of the responsible prison authorities, an outstanding response to the rehabilitative program(s) of the institution;

(3) The prisoner has fully observed the rules of each institution in which the prisoner has been confined;

(4) The prisoner appears to be an acceptable risk for parole based on both the prisoner's pre- and post-incarceration record; and

(5) Service of the minimum term imposed by the court does not appear necessary to achieve appropriate punishment and deterrence.

(d) If the Commission approves a prisoner's request under this section, an application for a reduction in the prisoner's minimum term shall be forwarded to the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia for filing with the sentencing court. If the U.S. Attorney objects to the Commission's recommendation, the U.S. Attorney shall provide the government's objections in writing for consideration by the Commission. If, after consideration of the material submitted, the Commission declines to reconsider its previous decision, the U.S. Attorney shall file the application with the sentencing court.

(e) If a prisoner's request under this section is denied by the Commission, there shall be a waiting period of two years before the Commission will again consider the prisoner's request, absent exceptional circumstances.
