
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart C - District of Columbia Code: Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.78 Geriatric parole.

(a) Upon receipt of a report from the institution in which the prisoner is confined that a prisoner who is at least 65 years of age has a chronic infirmity, illness, or disease related to aging, the Commission shall determine whether or not to release the prisoner on geriatric parole. Release on geriatric parole may be ordered by the Commission at any time, whether or not the prisoner has completed his or her minimum sentence. Consideration for geriatric parole shall be in addition to any other parole for which a prisoner may be eligible.

(b) A prisoner may be granted a geriatric parole if the Commission finds that:

(1) There is a low risk that the prisoner will commit new crimes; and

(2) The prisoner's release would not be incompatible with the welfare of society.

(c) The seriousness of the prisoner's crime, and the age at which it was committed, shall be considered in determining whether or not a geriatric parole should be granted prior to completion of the prisoner's minimum sentence.

(d) A prisoner, or a prisoner's representative, may apply for a geriatric parole by submitting an application to the institution case management staff, who shall forward the application, accompanied by a medical report and any recommendations, within 30 days. The Commission shall render a decision within 30 days of receiving the application and report.

(e) In determining whether or not to grant a geriatric parole, the Commission shall consider the following factors (D.C. Code 24-465(c)(1)-(7)):

(1) Age of the prisoner;

(2) Severity of illness, disease, or infirmities;

(3) Comprehensive health evaluation;

(4) Institutional behavior;

(5) Level of risk for violence;

(6) Criminal history; and

(7) Alternatives to maintaining geriatric long-term prisoners in traditional prison settings.

(f) A prisoner, the prisoner's representative, or the institution, may request the Commission to reconsider its decision on the basis of changed circumstances.

(g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section:

(1) A prisoner who has been convicted of first degree murder or who has been sentenced for a crime committed while armed under D.C. Code 22-4502, 22-4504(b), or 22-2803, shall not be eligible for geriatric parole (D.C. Code 24-467); and

(2) A prisoner shall not be eligible for geriatric parole on the basis of a physical or medical condition that existed at the time the prisoner was sentenced (D.C. Code 24-462).
