
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 74 - CIVIL LIBERTIES ACT REDRESS PROVISION
#### Appendix A to Part 74 - Declarations of Eligibility by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration and Requests for Documentation

This declaration shall be executed by the identified eligible person or such person's designated representative.

Complete the following information:

Read the following carefully before signing this document. A False Statement may be grounds for punishment by fine (U.S. Code, title 31, section 3729), and fine or imprisonment or both (U.S. Code, title 18, section 287 and section 1001).

I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.

Privacy Act Statement: The authority for collecting this information is contained in 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b. The information that you provide will be used principally for verifying eligible persons for payment under the restitution provision of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988.

Required Documentation: The following documentation must be submitted with the above Declaration to complete your verification.

A document with your current legal name and address. For example, you might send a bank or financial statement, or a monthly utility bill. Submit either a notarized copy of the record or an original that you do not need back.

A certified copy of a birth certificate or a copy of another record of birth that has been certified by the custodian of the records. For example, you might send a religious record which shows your date of birth, or a hospital birth record. If you do not have any record of your birth the Administrator will accept affidavits of two or more persons attesting to the date of your birth.
