
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 74 - CIVIL LIBERTIES ACT REDRESS PROVISION
#### Appendix A to Part 74 - Declarations of Eligibility by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration and Requests for Documentation
##### do not

If your notification letter says that the Social Security Administration has confirmed your date of birth, youhave to send us any further evidence of your birth date.

If your current legal name is the same as your name when evacuated or interned, this section does not apply.

This section is only required for persons whose current legal name is different from the name used when evacuated or interned.

1. A certified copy of the public record of marriage.

2. A certified copy of the divorce decree.

3. A certified copy of the court order of a name change.

4. Affidavits or sworn statements of two or more persons attesting to the name change.

If you are executing this document for the person identified as eligible, you must submit evidence of your authority.

If you are the legally-appointed guardian, committee, or other legally-designated representative of such an individual, the evidence shall be a certificate executed by the proper official of the court appointment.

If you are not such a legally-designated representative, the evidence shall be an affidavit describing your relationship to the recipient or the extent to which you have the care of the recipient or your position as an officer of the institution in which the recipient is institutionalized.

This declaration shall be executed by the spouse of a deceased eligible individual as statutory heir in accordance with section 105(a)(7) of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b.

Complete the following information:

Read the following carefully before signing this document.

A False Statement may be grounds for punishment by fine (U.S. Code, title 31, section 3729), and fine or imprisonment or both (U.S. Code, title 18, sections 287 and section 1001).

I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.

Privacy Act Statement: The authority for collecting this information is contained in 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b. The information that you provide will be used principally for verifying eligible persons for payment under the restitution provision of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988.

Required Documentation: The following documentation must be submitted with the above Declaration to complete your verification.

1. A certified copy or extract from the public records of death, coroner's report of death, or verdict of a coroner's jury.

2. A certificate by the custodian of the public record of death.

3. A statement of the funeral director or attending physician, or intern of the institution where death occurred.

4. A certified copy, or extract from an official report or finding of death made by an agency or department of the United States.

5. If death occurred outside the United States, an official report of death by a United States Consul or other employee of the State Department, or a copy of public record of death in the foreign country.

6. If you cannot obtain any of the above evidence of your spouse's death, you must submit other convincing evidence to ORA such as the signed statements of two or more people with personal knowledge of the death, giving the place, date, and cause of death.

1. A copy of the public records of marriage, certified or attested, or an abstract of the public records, containing sufficient data to identify the parties, the date and place of marriage, and the number of prior marriages by either party if shown on the official record, issued by the officer having custody of the record or other public official authorized to certify the record, or a certified copy of the religious record of marriage.

2. An offical report from a public agency as to a marriage which occurred while the deceased eligible individual who was employed by such agency.

3. The affidavit of the clergyman or magistrate who officiated.

4. The certified copy of a certificate of marriage attested to by the custodian of the records.

5. The affidavits or sworn statements of two or more eyewitnesses to the ceremony.

6. In jurisdictions where "Common Law" marriages are recognized, the affidavits or certified statements of the spouse setting forth all of the facts and circumstances concerning the alleged marriage, such as the agreement between the parties at the beginning of their cohabitation, places and dates of residences, and whether children were born as the result of the relationship. This evidence should be supplemented by affidavits or certified statements from two or more persons who know as the result of personal observation the reputed relationship which existed between the parties to the alleged marriage, including the period of cohabitation, places of residences, whether the parties held themselves out as husband and wife and whether they were generally accepted as such in the communities in which they lived.

7. Any other evidence which would reasonably support a belief by the Administrator that a valid marriage actually existed.

A document with your current legal name and address. For example, you might send a bank or financial statement or a monthly utility bill. Submit either a notarized copy of the record or an original that you do not need back.

A certified copy of a birth certificate or a copy of another record of birth that has been certified by the custodian of the records. For example, you might send a copy of a religious record which shows your date of birth, or a hospital birth record. If you do not have any record of your birth, the Administrator will accept affidavits of two or more persons attesting to the date of your birth.
