
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 74 - CIVIL LIBERTIES ACT REDRESS PROVISION
#### Appendix A to Part 74 - Declarations of Eligibility by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration and Requests for Documentation
##### do not

If your notification letter says that the Social Security Administration has confirmed your date of brith, youhave to send us any further evidence of your birth date.

If your current legal last name is the same as the last name of the deceased eligible individual or the same as at the time of marriage this section does not apply.

This section is only required for persons whose current legal last name is different from the last name of the deceased eligible.

1. A certified copy of the public record of marriage.

2. A certified copy of the divorce decree.

3. A certified copy of the court order of a name change.

4. Affidavits or sworn statements of two or more persons attesting to the name change.

If you are executing this document for the person identified as eligible, you must submit evidence of your authority.

If you are the legally-appointed guardian, committee, or other legally-designated representative of such an individual, the evidence shall be a certificate executed by the proper official of the court appointment.

If you are not such a legally-designated representative, the evidence shall be an affidavit describing your relationship to the recipient or the extent to which you have the care of the recipient or your position as an officer of the institution in which the recipient is institutionalized.

This declaration shall be executed by the child of a deceased eligible individual as a statutory heir in accordance with section 105(a)(7) of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, 50 U.S.C. app. 1988b.

Complete the following information:

Read the following carefully before signing this document. A False Statement may be grounds for punishment by fine (U.S. Code, title 31, section 3729), and fine or imprisonment or both (U.S. Code, title 18, section 287 and section 1001).

I declare under penalty or perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.

Privacy Act Statement: The authority for collecting this information is contained in 50 U.S.C. app. 1989b. The information that you provide will be used principally for verifying eligible persons for payment under the restitution provision of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988.

The following documentation must be submitted with the above Declaration to complete your verification.

1. A certified copy or extract from the public records of death, coroner's report of death, or verdict of a coroner's jury.

2. A certificate by the custodian of the public record of death.

3. A statement of the funeral director or attending physician, or intern of the institution where death occurred.

4. A certified copy, or extract from an official report or finding of death made by an agency or department of the United States.

5. If death occurred outside the United States, an official report of death by a United States Consul or other employee of the State Department, or a copy of public record of death in the foreign country.

6. If you cannot obtain any of the above evidence of your parent's death, you must submit other convincing evidence to ORA such as the signed statements of two or more people with personal knowledge of the death, giving the place, date, and cause of death.

1. A certified copy of a birth certificate showing that the deceased eligible individual was your parent.

2. If the birth certificate does not show the deceased eligible individual as your parent, other proof would be a certified copy of:

(a) An acknowledgment in writing signed by the deceased eligible individual.

(b) A judicial decree ordering the deceased eligible individual to contribute to your support or for other purposes.

(c) A certified copy of the public record of birth or a religious record showing that the deceased eligible individual was the informant and was named as your parent.

(d) Affidavits or sworn statements of a person who knows that the deceased eligible individual accepted the child as his or hers.

(e) A record obtained from a public agency or public records, such as school or welfare agencies, which shows that with the deceased eligible individual's knowledge, the deceased eligible individual was named as the parent of the child.

Evidence of the relationship by an adopted child must be shown by a certified copy of the decree of adoption. In jurisdictions where petition must be made to the court for release of adoption documents or information, or where the release of such documents or information is prohibited, a revised birth certificate will be sufficient to establish the fact of adoption.
