
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 74 - CIVIL LIBERTIES ACT REDRESS PROVISION
#### Appendix A to Part 74 - Declarations of Eligibility by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration and Requests for Documentation
##### three

Submit allas evidence of the step-child relationship.

1. One document as evidence of birth to the spouse of the deceased eligible individual as listed under the "natural child" and "adoptive child" sections to show that you were born to or adopted by the deceased individual's spouse, or other evidence which reasonably supports the existence of a parent-child relationship between you and the spouse of the deceased eligible person.

2. One document as evidence that you were either living with or in a parent-child relationship with the deceased eligible individual at the time of the eligible individual's death.

3. One document as evidence of the marriage of the deceased eligible individual and the spouse, such as a copy of the record of marriage, certified or attested, or by an abstract of the public records, containing sufficient data to identify the parties and the date and place of marriage issued by the officer having custody of the record, or a certified copy of a religious record of marriage.

A document with your current legal name and address. For example, you might send a bank or financial statement, or a monthly utility bill. Submit either a notarized copy of the record or an original that you do not want back.

A certified copy of a birth certificate or a copy of another record of birth that has been certified by the custodian of the records. For example, you might send a copy of a religious record which shows your date of birth, or a hospital birth record. If you do not have any record of your birth, the Administrator will accept affidavits of two or more persons attesting to the date of your birth.
