
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 74 - CIVIL LIBERTIES ACT REDRESS PROVISION
#### Appendix A to Part 74 - Declarations of Eligibility by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration and Requests for Documentation
##### one

Submitof the following as evidence of the change of legal name.

1. A certified copy of the public record of marriage.

2. A certified copy of the divorce decree.

3. A certified copy of the court order of a name change.

4. Affidavits or sworn statements of two or more persons attesting to the name change.

If your are executing this document for the person identified as an eligible beneficiary, you must submit evidence of your authority.

If you are a legally-appointed guardian, committee, or other legally-designated representative of such an individual, the evidence shall be a certificate executed by the proper official of the court appointment.

If you are not such a legally-designated representative, the evidence shall be an affidavit describing your relationship to the recipient or the extent to which you have the care of the recipient or your position as an officer of the institution in which the recipient is institutionalized.

Declaration of Verification by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration as Statutory Heirs

U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division Office of Redress Administration

This declaration shall be executed by the identified parent of a deceased eligible individual as statutory heir in accordance with

Read the following carefully before signing this document. A False Statement may be grounds for punishment by fine (U.S. Code, title 31, section 3729), and fine or imprisonment or both (U.S. Code, title 18, section 287 and section 1001).

The following documentation must be submitted with the above Declaration to complete your verification.

1. A certified copy or extract from the public records of death, coroner's report of death, or verdict of a coroner's jury.

2. A certificate by the custodian of the public record of death.

3. A statement of the funeral director or attending physician, or intern of the institution where death occurred.

4. A certified copy, or extract from an official report or finding of death made by an agency or department of the United States.

5. If death occurred outside the United States, an official report of death by a United States Consul or othe employee of the State Department, or a copy of public record of death in the foreign country.

6. If you cannot obtain any of the above evidence, you must submit other convincing evidence to ORA such as the signed statements of two or more people with personal knowledge of the death, giving the place, date, and cause of death.

1. A certified copy of a birth certificate that shows you to be the deceased eligible individual's parent.

2. A certified acknowledgment in writing signed by you before the eligible individual's death.

3. Any other evidence which reasonably supports a finding of such a parent-child relationship, such as a certified copy of the public record of birth or a religious record showing that you were the informant and were named as the parent of the deceased eligible individual.

4. Affidavits or sworn statements of persons who know that you had accepted the deceased eligible individual as his or her child.

5. Information obtained from a public agency or public records, such as school or welfare agencies, which shows that with the deceased eligible individual's knowledge, you were named as parent.

1. A certified copy of the decree of adoption and such other evidence as may be necessary.

2. In jurisdictions where petition must be made to the court for release of such documents or information, or where release of such documents or information is prohibited, a revised birth certificate showing the person as the deceased eligible individual's parent will suffice.

A document with your current legal name and address. For example, you might send a bank or financial statement, or a monthly utility bill. Submit either a notarized copy or an original that you do not need back.

A certified copy of a birth certificate or a copy of another record of birth that has been certified by the custodian of the records. For example, you might send a copy of a religious record which shows your date of birth, or a hospital birth record. If you do not have any record of your birth, the Administrator will accept affidavits of two or more persons attesting to the date of your birth.
