
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 74 - CIVIL LIBERTIES ACT REDRESS PROVISION
#### Appendix A to Part 74 - Declarations of Eligibility by Persons Identified by the Office of Redress Administration and Requests for Documentation
##### do not

If your notification letter says that the Social Security Administration has confirmed your date of birth, youhave to send any further evidence of your birth date.

If your current legal last name is the same as the last name of the deceased eligible individual this section does not apply.

This section is only required for persons whose current legal last name is different from the last name of the deceased eligible.

1. A certified copy of the public record of marriage.

2. A certified copy of the divorce decree.

3. A certified copy of the court order of a name change.

4. Affidavits or sworn statements of two or more persons attesting to the name change.

If you are executing this document for the person identified as eligible, you must submit evidence of your authority.

If you are the legally-appointed guardian, committee, or other legally-designated representative of such an individual, the evidence shall be a certificate executed by the proper official of the court appointment.

If you are not such a legally-designated representative, the evidence shall be an affidavit describing your relationship to the recipient or the extent to which you have the care of the recipient or your position as an officer of the institution in which the recipient is institutionalized.
