
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 75 - CHILD PROTECTION RESTORATION AND PENALTIES ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 1990; PROTECT ACT; ADAM WALSH CHILD PROTECTION AND SAFETY ACT OF 2006; RECORDKEEPING AND RECORD-INSPECTION PROVISIONS
#### ยง 75.5 Inspection of records.
##### Conduct of inspections.

(c)(1) Inspections shall take place during normal business hours and at such places as specified in ยง 75.4. For the purpose of this part, "normal business hours" are from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., local time, Monday through Friday, or, for inspections to be held at the place of business of a producer, any other time during which the producer is actually conducting business relating to producing a depiction of actual sexually explicit conduct. To the extent that the producer does not maintain at least 20 normal business hours per week, the producer must provide notice to the inspecting agency of the hours during which records will be available for inspection, which in no case may be less than 20 hours per week.

(2) Upon commencing an inspection, the investigator shall:

(i) Present his or her credentials to the owner, operator, or agent in charge of the establishment;

(ii) Explain the nature and purpose of the inspection, including the limited nature of the records inspection, and the records required to be kept by the Act and this part; and

(iii) Indicate the scope of the specific inspection and the records that he or she wishes to inspect.

(3) The inspections shall be conducted so as not to unreasonably disrupt the operations of the establishment.

(4) At the conclusion of an inspection, the investigator may informally advise the producer or his non-employee custodian of records of any apparent violations disclosed by the inspection. The producer or non-employee custodian or records may bring to the attention of the investigator any pertinent information regarding the records inspected or any other relevant matter.
