
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 76 - RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES FOR POSSESSION OF CERTAIN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### ยง 76.21 Discovery.
##### Discovery motions.

(3)(i) A party shall answer a discovery request within the time provided by 28 CFR 76.21(c)(4), either by furnishing to the requesting party the information or testimony requested, agreeing to make deponents available to testify within a reasonable time, or by stating an objection to the particular request and the reasons for objection. Upon the failure of a party to respond in full to a discovery request, the requesting party may file with the Judge a motion to compel. A copy of the motion shall be served on the other party. The motion shall be accompanied by:

(A) A copy of the original request and a statement showing the relevance and materiality of the information sought; and

(B) A copy of the objections to discovery or, where appropriate, a statement with accompanying affidavit that no response has been received.

(ii) If a nonparty will not voluntarily respond to a discovery request in full, the requesting party may file with the Judge a written motion seeking a subpoena. A copy of the motion shall be served on the other party in accordance with 28 CFR 76.23. The motion shall be accompanied by:

(A) A copy of the original request and a statement showing the relevance, materiality and reasonable scope of the information sought;

(B) A copy of the objections to discovery or, where appropriate, a statement with accompanying affidavit that no response has been received; and

(C) In the case of a deposition, the date, time, and place of the proposed deposition.

(iii) The other party may respond to a motion to compel discovery or for issuance of a subpoena requiring a deposition or production of documents under this section by filing an opposition and/or a motion for a protective order in accordance with 28 CFR 76.24 within the time limits set forth in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section.
