
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 79 - CLAIMS UNDER THE RADIATION EXPOSURE COMPENSATION ACT
#### Subpart C - Eligibility Criteria for Claims Relating to Certain Specified Diseases Contracted After Exposure in an Affected Area ("Downwinders")
##### § 79.26 Proof of medical condition.

(a) Medical documentation is required in all cases to prove that the claimant suffered from or suffers from any specified compensable disease. Proof that the claimant contracted a specified compensable disease must be made either by using the procedure outlined in paragraph (b) of this section or by submitting the documentation required in paragraph (c) of this section. (For claims relating to primary cancer of the liver, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary must also submit the additional medical documentation prescribed in § 79.27.)

(b) If a claimant was diagnosed as having one of the specified compensable diseases in Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah or Wyoming, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary need not submit any medical documentation of disease at the time the claim is filed (although medical documentation subsequently may be required). Instead, the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary may submit with the claim an Authorization to Release Medical and Other Information, valid in the state of diagnosis, that authorizes the Program to contact the appropriate state cancer or tumor registry. The Program will accept as proof of medical condition verification from the state cancer or tumor registry that it possesses medical records or abstracts of medical records of the claimant that contain a verified diagnosis of one of the specified compensable diseases. If the designated state does not possess medical records or abstracts of medical records that contain a verified diagnosis of one of the specified compensable diseases, the Program will notify the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary and afford that individual the opportunity to submit the written medical documentation required in paragraph (c) of this section, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(b).

(c) Proof that the claimant contracted a specified compensable disease may be made by the submission of one or more of the contemporaneous medical records listed in this paragraph, provided that the specified document contains an explicit statement of diagnosis and such other information or data from which the appropriate authorities with the National Cancer Institute can make a diagnosis to a reasonable degree of medical certainty. If the medical record submitted does not contain sufficient information or data to make such a diagnosis, the Program will notify the claimant or eligible surviving beneficiary and afford that individual the opportunity to submit additional medical records identified in this paragraph, in accordance with the provisions of § 79.72(b). The medical documentation submitted under this section to establish that the claimant contracted leukemia or a lymphoma must also contain sufficient information from which the appropriate authorities with the National Cancer Institute can determine the type of leukemia or lymphoma contracted by the claimant. Proof of leukemia shall be made by submitting one or more of the documents listed in § 79.16(c).
