
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 90 - VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
#### Subpart C - Reimbursement to Tribal Governments for Expenses Incurred Exercising Special Tribal Criminal Jurisdiction
##### ยง 90.36 Categories of expenses eligible for reimbursement.

Participating Tribes may apply for the maximum allowable reimbursement and waiver funds for the following expenses associated with the exercise of STCJ for each calendar year. For an expense to be eligible, the cost must be incurred in response to a report of a covered crime committed by a non-Indian, but there does not need to be an arrest or a prosecution for the offense. The summary of eligible expenses submitted each year must demonstrate how costs were calculated. Following are examples of types of eligible costs that participating Tribes may include and basis for calculations.

(a) Law enforcement expenses such as officer time (including response, interviews, follow-up, report writing, and court time); sexual assault kits or other evidentiary supplies; and testing, analysis, and storage of evidence. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to SCTJ cases.

(b) Incarceration expenses such as prison and jail costs and prisoner transportation costs, whether through contract or Tribally owned facilities. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases and may be based on per diem costs for housing non-Indian offenders.

(c) Offender medical and dental expenses not otherwise covered by insurance policies or federal sources such as Medicaid, including costs for insurance for offenders. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases.

(d) Prosecution expenses such as staff time (including meetings, interviews, filings, research, preparation, court, and other time that can be demonstrated as allocable to prosecuting a covered crime); expert witness fees; exhibits; witness costs; and copying costs. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases.

(e) Defense counsel expenses such as staff time (including meetings, interviews, filings, research, preparation, court, and other time that can be demonstrated as allocable to defending one or more non-Indian offenders charged with one or more covered crimes); competency evaluations; expert witness fees; exhibits; witness costs; and copying costs. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual cost. If the defense counsel is provided by contract, then the reimbursement amount can be based on the invoiced cost to the participating Tribe.

(f) Court expenses such as judge and court staff time; postage for summoning jurors; jury fees; witness costs; and competency evaluation or other mental health evaluations ordered by the court. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases.

(g) Community supervision/re-entry expenses such as probation, parole, or other staff time; electronic or other monitoring fees; chemical dependency testing; batterer or sex offender evaluation and treatment; and pre-sentence investigation costs. Requests for reimbursement must be based on actual costs attributed to STCJ cases.

(h) Indirect costs based on a current federally approved indirect cost rate agreement.

(i) Other costs incurred in, relating to, or associated with exercising STCJ. Participating Tribes requesting reimbursement for costs in this category must demonstrate that the cost is incurred in, relating to, or associated with exercise of STCJ.
