
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 91 - GRANTS FOR CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES
#### Subpart B - FY 95 Correctional Boot Camp Initiative
##### ยง 91.10 General.
###### Eligibility.

(d)(1) Funding is available for both adult and juvenile boot camps. To be eligible for the funding of boot camps, states must comply with the general assurances in ยง 91.3(b) or demonstrate steps taken toward compliance. While the majority of assurances are applicable to the adult correctional system, those states applying for grants for juvenile boot camps must include the juvenile system in the state comprehensive correctional plan and demonstrate how construction of the boot camp will make secure space available to house violent juvenile offenders.

(2) For purposes of the FY '95 boot camp program, a "violent felony" means any crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year, or an act of juvenile delinquency that would be punishable by imprisonment for such term if committed by an adult, that:

(i) Involves the use or attempted use of a firearm or other dangerous weapon against another person, or

(ii) Results in death or serious bodily injury to another person.

(3) States must document that the boot camp program does not involve more than six-months confinement (not including confinement prior to assignment to the boot camp) and includes:

(i) Assignment for participation in the program, in conformity with state law, by prisoners other than prisoners who have been convicted at any time of a violent felony;

(ii) Adherence by inmates to a highly regimented schedule that involves strict discipline, physical training and work;

(iii) Participation by inmates in appropriate education, job training, and substance abuse counseling or treatment; and

(iv) Post-incarceration aftercare services for participants that are coordinated with the program carried out during the period of imprisonment.

(4) States must provide assurances that boot camp construction will free up secure institutional bed space for violent offenders.
