
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 91 - GRANTS FOR CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES
#### Subpart D - Environmental Impact Review Procedures for VOI/TIS Grant Program
##### Environmental Review Procedures
###### ยง 91.63 Preparing an Environmental Impact Statement
####### EIS preparation team.

(c)(1) Once OJP determines that an EIS is needed, the grantee shall notify OJP in writing about the contracting method that the grantee will use to complete the EIS. The grantee shall establish an EIS preparation team or entity that meets the requirements for an interdisciplinary approach. The team must not have any interest, financial or otherwise, in the outcome of the proposed projected or any related projects.

(2) If the grantee decides to use an alternate method to contracting out for preparation of the EIS (such as using a team of experts from various state agencies or a university), the grantee must submit a written proposal to OJP demonstrating that the team has the necessary interdisciplinary skills and experience in preparing EISs for similar projects. The proposal must include a completion schedule demonstrating that the alternate method will not result in significant delay. The proposal must also document that all members of the team, other than the grantee's employees, do not have any interest, financial or otherwise, in the outcome of the proposed project or any related projects.

(3) The grantee must use an OJP-approved statement of work (SOW) in conducting the EIS.

(4) Any consultant or contractor hired by OJP or the grantee to prepare an EIS must execute a disclosure statement specifying that it has no financial or other interest in the outcome of the project or any related projects.
