
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart C - District of Columbia Code: Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.106 Youth Rehabilitation Act.
###### Unconditional discharge from supervision.

(f)(1) A YRA parolee may be unconditionally discharged from supervision after service of one year on parole supervision if the Commission finds that supervision is no longer needed to protect the public safety. A review of the parolee's file shall be conducted after the conclusion of each year of supervision upon receipt of an annual progress report, and upon receipt of a final report to be submitted by the supervision officer six months prior to the sentence expiration date.

(2) In making a decision concerning unconditional discharge, the Commission shall consider the facts and circumstances of each case, focusing on the risk the parolee poses to the public and the benefit he may obtain from further supervision. The decision shall be made after an analysis of case-specific factors, including, but not limited to, the parolee's prior criminal history, the offense behavior that led to his conviction, record of drug or alcohol dependence, employment history, stability of residence and family relationships, and the number and nature of any incidents while under supervision (including new arrests, alleged parole violations, and criminal investigations).

(3) An order of unconditional discharge from supervision terminates the YRA offender's sentence. Whenever a YRA offender is unconditionally discharged from supervision, the Commission shall issue a certificate setting aside the offender's conviction. If the YRA offender is not unconditionally discharged from supervision prior to the expiration of his sentence, a certificate setting aside the conviction may be issued nunc pro tunc if the Commission finds that the failure to issue the decision on time was due to administrative delay or error, or that the Supervision Officer failed to present the Commission with a progress report before the end of the supervision term, and the offender's own actions did not contribute to the absence of the final report. However, the offender must have deserved to be unconditionally discharged from supervision before the end of his supervision term for a nunc pro tunc certificate to issue.
