
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart C - District of Columbia Code: Prisoners and Parolees
##### ยง 2.107 Interstate Compact.

(a) Pursuant to D.C. Code 24-133(b)(2)(G), the Director of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency (CSOSA), or his designee, shall be the Compact Administrator with regard to the following individuals on parole supervision pursuant to the Interstate Parole and Probation Compact authorized by D.C. Code 24-451:

(1) All D.C. Code parolees who are under the supervision of agencies in jurisdictions outside the District of Columbia; and

(2) All parolees from other jurisdictions who are under the supervision of CSOSA within the District of Columbia.

(b) Transfers of supervision pursuant to the Interstate Compact, where appropriate, may be arranged by the Compact Administrator, or his designee, and carried out with the approval of the Parole Commission. A D.C. Code parolee who is under the Parole Commission's jurisdiction will ordinarily be released or transferred to the supervision of a U.S. Probation Office outside the District of Columbia.

(c) Upon receipt of a report that a D.C. Code parolee, who is under supervision pursuant to the Interstate Compact in a jurisdiction outside the District of Columbia, has violated his or her parole, the Commission may issue a warrant pursuant to the procedures of ยง 2.98. The warrant may be executed as provided as in ยง 2.99. A parolee who is arrested on such a warrant shall be considered to be a prisoner in federal custody, and may be returned to the District of Columbia or designated to a facility of the Bureau of Prisons at the request of the Commission.

(d) If a parolee from another jurisdiction, who is under the supervision of CSOSA pursuant to the Interstate Compact, is alleged to have violated his or her parole, the Compact Administrator or his designee may issue a temporary warrant to secure the arrest of the parolee pending issuance of a warrant by the original paroling agency. If so requested, the Commission will conduct a courtesy revocation hearing on behalf of the original paroling agency whenever a revocation hearing within the District of Columbia is required.

(e) The term "D.C. Code parolee" shall include any felony offender who is serving a period of parole or mandatory release supervision pursuant to a sentence of imprisonment imposed under the District of Columbia Code.
