
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 100 - COST RECOVERY REGULATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1994
#### ยง 100.14 Directly allocable costs.

(a) A cost is directly allocable to the CALEA compliance effort:

(1) If it is a plant cost incurred specifically to meet the requirements of CALEA sections 103 and 104; or

(2) If it benefits both the CALEA compliance effort and other work, and can be distributed to them in reasonable proportion to the benefits received.

(b) The burden of proof shall be upon the carrier to justify that such cost is an allocable cost under this part.

(c) An allocable cost shall not be assigned to the CALEA compliance effort if other costs incurred for the same purpose in like circumstances have been included as a direct cost of that, or any other, cost objective.

(d) The accumulation of allocable costs shall be as follows:

(1) Allocable costs shall be accumulated by logical cost groupings with due consideration of the reasons for incurring such costs.

(i) Each grouping should be determined so as to permit distribution of the grouping on the basis of the benefits accruing to the multiple cost objectives.

(ii) Similarly, the particular case may require subdivision of these groupings (e.g., building occupancy costs might be separable from those of personnel administration within the engineering group).

(2) Such allocation necessitates selecting a distribution base common to all cost objectives to which the grouping is to be allocated. The base should be selected so as to permit allocation of the grouping on the basis of the benefits accruing to the multiple cost objectives.

(3) When substantially the same results can be achieved through less precise methods, the number and composition of cost groupings should be governed by practical considerations and should not unduly complicate the allocation.

(4) Once a methodology for determining an appropriate base for distributing allocable costs has been agreed to, it shall not be modified without written approval of the FBI, if that modification affects the level of reimbursement from the government. All items properly includable in an allocable cost base should bear a pro rata share of allocable costs irrespective of their acceptance as reimbursable under this part.

(5) The carrier's method of allocating allocable costs shall be in accordance with the accounting principles used by the carrier in the preparation of their externally audited financial statements and consistently applied, to the extent that the expenses are allowable under there regulations. The method may require further examination when:

(i) Substantial differences occur between the cost patterns of work under CALEA compliance effort and the carrier's other work;

(ii) Significant changes occur in the nature of the business, the extent of subcontracting, fixed-asset improvement programs, inventories, the volume of sales and production, manufacturing processes, the carrier's products, or other relevant circumstances; or

(iii) Allocable cost groupings developed for a carrier's primary location are applied to off-site locations. Separate cost groupings for costs allocable to off-site locations may be necessary to permit equitable distribution of costs on the basis of the benefits accruing to the multiple cost objectives.

(6) The base period for allocating allocable costs is the cost accounting period during which such costs are incurred and accumulated for distribution to work performed in that period. The base period for allocating allocable costs will normally be the carrier's fiscal year. A shorter period may be appropriate when performance involves only a minor portion of the fiscal year, or when it is general practice to use a shorter period. When the compliance effort is performed over an extended period, as many base periods shall be used as are required to accurately represent the period of performance.
