
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 100 - COST RECOVERY REGULATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1994
#### ยง 100.15 Disallowed costs.

(a) General and Administrative (G&A) costs are disallowed. G&A costs include, but are not limited to, any management, financial, and other expenditures which are incurred by or allocated to a business unit as a whole. These include, but are not limited to:

(1) Accounting and Finance, External Relations, Human Resources, Information Management, Legal, Procurement; and

(2) Other general administrative activities such as library services, food services, archives, and general security investigation services.

(b) Customer Service costs are disallowed. These costs include, but are not limited to, any Marketing, Sales, Product Management, and Advertising expenses.

(c) Plant costs that are not directly associated with the modifications identified in ยง 100.11 are disallowed. These include, but are not limited to, repairing materials for reuse, performing routine work to prevent trouble; expenses related to property held for future telecommunications use; provisioning costs; network operations costs; and depreciation and amortization expenses.

(d) Costs that have already been recovered from any governmental or nongovernmental entity are disallowed.

(e) Costs that cannot be either directly assigned or directly allocated are disallowed.

(f) Additional costs that are incurred due to the carrier's failure to complete the CALEA compliance effort in the time frame agreed to by the government and the carrier are disallowed.

(g) Costs associated with modifications of any equipment, facility or service installed or deployed after January 1, 1995 which are deemed reasonably achievable by the Federal Communications Commission under section 109(b) of CALEA are disallowed.

(h) To ensure that the Government does not reimburse carriers for disallowed costs, the following provisions are included:

(1) Costs that are expressly disallowed or mutually agreed to be disallowed, including mutually agreed to be disallowed directly associated costs, shall be excluded from any billing, claim, or proposal applicable to reimbursement under CALEA. When a disallowed cost is incurred, its directly associated costs are also disallowed.

(2) Disallowed costs involved in determining rates used for standard costs, or for allocable cost proposals or billing, need be identified only at the time rates are proposed, established, revised, or adjusted. These requirements may be satisfied by any form of cost identification which is adequate for purposes of cost determination and verification.
