
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 100 - COST RECOVERY REGULATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1994
#### ยง 100.16 Cost estimate submission.

(a) The carrier shall provide sufficient cost data at the time of proposal submission to allow adequate analysis and evaluation of the estimated costs. The FBI reserves the right to request additional cost data from carriers in order to ensure compliance with this part.

(b) The requirement for submission of cost data is met if, as determined by the FBI, all cost data reasonably available to the carrier are either submitted or identified in writing by the date of agreement on the costs.

(c) If cost data and information to explain the estimating process are required by the FBI and the carrier refuses to provide necessary data, or the FBI determines that the data provided are so deficient as to preclude adequate analysis and evaluation, the FBI will attempt to obtain the data and/or elicit corrective action.

(d) Instructions for submission of the cost data for the estimate are as follows:

(1) The carrier shall submit to the FBI estimated costs by line item with supporting information.

(2) A cost element breakdown as described in ยง 100.16(h) shall be attached for each proposed line item.

(3) Supporting breakdowns shall be furnished for each cost element, consistent with the carrier's cost accounting system.

(4) When more than one line item is proposed, summary total amounts covering all line items shall be furnished for each cost element.

(5) Depending on the carrier's accounting system, the carrier shall provide breakdowns for the following categories of cost elements, as applicable:
