
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 100 - COST RECOVERY REGULATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1994
#### ยง 100.16 Cost estimate submission.
##### Other costs.

(v)List all other costs not otherwise included in the categories described above (e.g., special tooling, travel, computer and consultant services) and provide bases for costs.

(e) As part of the specific information required, the carrier shall submit with its cost estimate and clearly identify as such, costs that are verifiable and factual. In addition, the carrier shall submit information reasonably required to explain its estimating process, including:

(1) The judgmental factors applied, such as trends or budgetary data, and the mathematical or other methods used in the estimate, including those used in projecting from known data; and

(2) The nature and amount of any contingencies included in the proposed estimate.

(f) There is a clear distinction between submitting cost data and merely making available books, records, and other documents without identification. The requirement for submission of cost data is met when all accurate cost data reasonably available to the carrier have been submitted, either actually or by specific identification, to the FBI.

(g) In submitting its estimate, the carrier must include an index, appropriately referenced, of all the cost data and information accompanying or identified in the estimate. In addition, any future additions and/or revisions, up to the date of agreement on the costs, must be annotated in a supplemental index.

(h) Headings for submission are as follows:

(1) Total Project Cost: Summary.

(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)

(ii) Proposed Cost Estimate-Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that in the carrier's judgment will properly be incurred in efficient completion of CALEA requirements. When any of the costs in this have already been incurred (e.g., under a letter contract), describe them on an attached supporting schedule.)

(iii) Proposed Cost Estimate-Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)

(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)

(2) Total Project Costs: Detail (at Switch Level or Project Level, as appropriate).

(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)

(ii) Proposed Cost Estimate-Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that in the carrier's judgment will properly be incurred in efficient completion of CALEA requirements. When any of the costs in this have already been incurred (e.g., under a letter contract), describe them on an attached supporting schedule.)

(iii) Proposed Cost Estimate-Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)

(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)
