
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 100 - COST RECOVERY REGULATIONS, COMMUNICATIONS ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1994
#### ยง 100.17 Request for payment.
##### Other costs.

(5)List all other costs not otherwise included in the categories described above (e.g., special tooling, travel, computer and consultant services) and have available for audit in accordance with ยง 100.18, documentation that costs incurred are just and reasonable.

(d) There is a clear distinction between submitting cost data and merely making available books, records, and other documents without identification.

(1) The requirement for submission of cost data is met when all accurate cost data reasonably available to the carrier have been submitted, either actually or by specific identification of the data that are available for review in the carrier's files, to the FBI.

(2) Should later information which affects the level of reimbursement come into the carrier's possession, it must be promptly submitted to the FBI.

(3) The requirement for submission of cost data continues up to the time of final reimbursement.

(e) In submitting its invoice, the carrier must include an index, which cross references the actual cost data submitted with the cost estimate.

(f) Headings for submission are as follows:

(1) Total Project Cost: Summary.

(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)

(ii) Actual Costs Incurred-Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that were incurred in the efficient completion of CALEA requirements.)

(iii) Actual Costs Incurred-Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)

(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)

(2) Total Project Costs: Detail (at Switch Level or Project Level, as appropriate.)

(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)

(ii) Actual Costs Incurred-Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that were incurred in the efficient completion of CALEA requirements.)

(iii) Actual Costs Incurred-Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)

(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)
