
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 104 - SEPTEMBER 11TH VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND
#### Subpart B - Filing for Compensation
##### ยง 104.22 Filing for compensation.
###### Personal Injury Compensation Form and Death Compensation Form.

(c)The Special Master shall develop a Personal Injury Compensation Form, which may be a portion of a complete claim form, that each injured claimant must submit. The Special Master shall also develop a Death Compensation Form, which may be a portion of a complete claim form, that each Personal Representative must submit. These forms shall require the claimant to provide certain information that the Special Master deems necessary to determining the amount of any award, including information concerning income, collateral sources, benefits, settlements and attorneys' fees relating to civil actions described in section 405(c)(3)(C)(iii) of the Act, and other financial information, and shall require the claimant to state the factual basis for the amount of compensation sought. It shall also allow the claimant to submit certain other information that may be relevant, but not necessary, to the determination of the amount of any award.

(1) The Special Master may ask claimants to submit certain tax returns or tax transcripts for returns that the Special Master deems appropriate for determination of an award. The Special Master may also require waivers, consents, or authorizations from claimants to obtain directly from third parties medical information, employment information, or other information that the Special Master deems relevant to determining the amount of any award.

(2) Claimants may attach to the `Personal Injury Compensation Form" or "Death Compensation Form" any additional statements, documents or analyses by physicians, experts, advisors, or any other person or entity that the claimant believes may be relevant to a determination of compensation.
