
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 104 - SEPTEMBER 11TH VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND
#### Subpart D - Amount of Compensation for Eligible Claimants
##### ยง 104.43 Determination of presumed economic loss for decedents.
###### Loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment.

(a)The Special Master, as part of the process of reaching a "determination" pursuant to section 405(b) of the Act, has developed a methodology and may publish updated schedules, tables, or charts that will permit prospective claimants to estimate determinations of loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment based upon individual circumstances of the deceased victim, including: The age of the decedent as of the date of death; the number of dependents who survive the decedent; whether the decedent is survived by a spouse; and the amount and nature of the decedent's income for recent years. The decedent's salary/income in the three years preceding the year of death (or for other years the Special Master deems relevant) shall be evaluated in a manner that the Special Master deems appropriate. The Special Master may, if she deems appropriate, take an average of income figures for the three years preceding the year of death, and may also consider income for other periods that she deems appropriate, including published pay scales for victims who were government or military employees. In computing any loss of earnings due to physical harm as defined herein the Special Master shall, for each year for which any loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment is computed, limit the annual past or projected future gross income of the decedent to an amount that is not greater than $200,000. For purposes of the computation of loss of earnings, annual gross income shall have the meaning given such term in section 61 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. In cases where the victim was a minor child, the Special Master may assume an average income for the child commensurate with the average income of all wage earners in the United States. For victims who were members of the armed services or government employees such as firefighters or police officers, the Special Master may consider all forms of compensation (or pay) to which the victim was entitled. For example, military service members' and uniformed service members' compensation includes all of the various components of compensation, including, but not limited to, basic pay (BPY), basic allowance for housing (BAH), basic allowance for subsistence (BAS), federal income tax advantage (TAD), overtime bonuses, differential pay, and longevity pay.
