
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart D - District of Columbia Supervised Releasees
##### ยง 2.206 Travel approval and transfers of supervision.

(a) A releasee's supervision officer may approve travel outside the district of supervision without approval of the Commission in the following situations:

(1) Trips not to exceed thirty days for family emergencies, vacations, and similar personal reasons;

(2) Trips, not to exceed thirty days, to investigate reasonably certain employment possibilities; and

(3) Recurring travel across a district boundary, not to exceed fifty miles outside the district, for purpose of employment, shopping, or recreation.

(b) Specific advance approval by the Commission is required for all foreign travel, employment requiring recurring travel more than fifty miles outside the district, and vacation travel outside the district of supervision exceeding thirty days. A request for such permission shall be in writing and must demonstrate a substantial need for such travel.

(c) A special condition imposed by the Commission prohibiting certain travel shall apply instead of any general rules relating to travel as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) The district of supervision for a releasee under the supervision of CSOSA shall be the District of Columbia, except that for the purpose of travel permission under this section, the district of supervision shall include the D.C. metropolitan area as defined in the certificate of supervised release.

(e) A supervised releasee who is under the jurisdiction of the Commission, and who is released or transferred to a district outside the District of Columbia, shall be supervised by a U.S. Probation Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3655.

(f) A supervised releasee may be transferred to a new district of supervision with the permission of the supervision offices of both the transferring and receiving district, provided such transfer is not contrary to instructions from the Commission.
