
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart D - District of Columbia Supervised Releasees
##### ยง 2.208 Termination of a term of supervised release.
###### nunc pro tunc

(2) Upon terminating supervision of a committed youth offender before the sentence expires, the Commission shall set aside the offender's conviction and issue a certificate setting aside the conviction instead of a certificate of discharge. The Commission may issue a set-aside certificatefor a youth offender previously under supervised release on the sentence and who was not considered for early termination from supervision, using the criteria stated at ยง 2.106(f)(3). If the youth offender was sentenced only to a term of incarceration without any supervision to follow release, the Commission may issue a set-aside certificate after the expiration of the sentence. In such cases, the Commission shall determine whether to grant the set-aside certificate after considering factors such as the offender's crime, criminal history, social and employment history, record of institutional conduct, efforts at rehabilitation, and any other relevant and available information.

(b) Two years after a prisoner is released on supervision, and at least annually thereafter, the Commission shall review the status of the releasee to determine the need for continued supervision. The Commission shall also conduct a status review whenever the supervision officer recommends termination of the supervised release term. If the term of supervised release imposed by the court is two years or less, the Commission shall consider termination of supervision only if recommended by the releasee's supervision officer.

(c) In calculating the two-year period provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Commission shall not include any period of release before the most recent release, or any period served in confinement on any other sentence.

(d)(1) In deciding whether to terminate supervised release, the Commission shall consider the guidelines of this paragraph (d). The guidelines are advisory and the Commission may disregard the outcome indicated by the guidelines based on case-specific factors. Termination of supervision is indicated if the releasee:

(i) Has a salient factor score in the very good risk category and has completed two continuous years of supervision free from an incident of new criminal behavior or serious release violation; or

(ii) Has a salient factor score in a risk category other than very good and has completed three continuous years of supervision free from an incident of new criminal behavior or serious release violation.

(2) As used in this paragraph (d), the term "an incident of new criminal behavior or serious release violation" includes a new arrest or report of a release violation if supported by substantial evidence of guilt, even if no conviction or release revocation results. The Commission shall not terminate supervision of a releasee until it determines the disposition of a pending criminal charge.

(3) Case-specific factors that may justify a departure either above or below the early termination guidelines may relate to the current behavior of the releasee, or to the releasee's background and criminal history.
