
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart D - District of Columbia Supervised Releasees
##### § 2.213 Warrant placed as detainer and dispositional review.

(a) When a releasee is a prisoner in the custody of other law enforcement authorities, or is serving a new sentence of imprisonment imposed for a crime (or for a violation of some other form of community supervision) committed while on supervised release, a violation warrant may be lodged against him as a detainer.

(b) The Commission shall review the detainer upon the request of the prisoner pursuant to the procedure set forth in § 2.47(a)(2). Following such review, the Commission may:

(1) Withdraw the detainer and order reinstatement of the prisoner to supervision upon release from custody;

(2) Order a dispositional revocation hearing to be conducted at the institution in which the prisoner is confined; or

(3) Let the detainer stand until the new sentence is completed. Following the execution of the Commission's warrant, and the transfer of the prisoner to an appropriate federal facility, an institutional revocation hearing shall be conducted.

(c) Dispositional revocation hearings pursuant to this section shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions at § 2.216 governing institutional revocation hearings. A hearing conducted at a state or local facility may be conducted either by a hearing examiner or by any federal, state, or local official designated by a Commissioner. Following a revocation hearing conducted pursuant to this section, the Commission may take any action authorized by §§ 2.218 and 2.219.
