
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 201 - DATA PROTECTION REVIEW COURT
#### ยง 201.6 Applications for review.

(a) A complainant may apply for review by the DPRC of a determination made by the ODNI CLPO in response to a qualifying complaint submitted by the complainant by filing an application for review with the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state, for forwarding to OPCL, no later than sixty (60) days after the date, as reported to OPCL by the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state, on which the complainant receives notification that the ODNI CLPO has completed its review.

(b) The complainant shall submit with the application for review, through the appropriate authority in a qualifying state, any information, including argument on questions of law or the application of law to the facts, that the complainant wishes to provide to the DPRC. The complainant may be represented by counsel in submitting this information. OPCL shall maintain the confidentiality of such information.

(c) An element of the Intelligence Community may apply for review by the DPRC of a determination made by the ODNI CLPO by filing an application for review with OPCL no later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the element of the Intelligence Community receives notification from the ODNI CPLO that the ODNI CLPO has completed its review of the qualifying complaint. An application for review filed by an element of the Intelligence Community may include any information that the element of the Intelligence Community wishes to provide to the DPRC, including argument on questions of law or the application of law to the facts. To prevent the disclosure of classified or otherwise privileged or protected information, the DPRC, Special Advocates, and OPCL shall not provide to the complainant any information relating to the existence, review, or outcome of any application for review filed by an element of the Intelligence Community.
