
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 201 - DATA PROTECTION REVIEW COURT
#### ยง 201.8 Special Advocates.

(a) After a DPRC panel is convened under ยง 201.7(a), the presiding judge shall select a Special Advocate to assist the panel in the consideration of the application for review.

(b) The Special Advocate shall upon selection receive from OPCL the application for review and any information that the complainant provided under ยง 201.6(b). The Special Advocate shall not be the agent of the complainant, consistent with the rules of professional responsibility, and there shall be no attorney-client relationship between the Special Advocate and the complainant.

(c) The Special Advocate shall also have access to the record of the ODNI CLPO's review and any information or submissions provided to the DPRC panel by an element of the Intelligence Community.

(d) To prevent the disclosure of classified or otherwise privileged or protected information, the Special Advocate shall adhere to the following rules on communications with the complainant or the complainant's counsel:

(1) If the complainant did not file an application for review, the Special Advocate shall not communicate with the complainant or the complainant's counsel.

(2) If the complainant did file an application for review, the Special Advocate may at any stage submit to OPCL written questions for the complainant or the complainant's counsel. OPCL shall, in consultation with relevant elements of the Intelligence Community, review any such questions to ensure they do not disclose any classified or otherwise privileged or protected information and, subject to that limitation, shall convey the questions through the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state to the complainant or the complainant's counsel, with an invitation to provide written responses to the Special Advocate through the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state.

(e) The Special Advocate shall assist the DPRC panel in its consideration of the application for review, including by advocating regarding the complainant's interest in the matter and by ensuring that the DPRC panel is well informed of the issues and the law with respect to the matter. Where the complainant has filed an application for review, the submissions of the Special Advocate to the DPRC shall include the complainant's application for review and the information and responses to questions submitted to the Special Advocate by the complainant.

(f) Affected elements of the Intelligence Community shall be provided an opportunity to respond to submissions made by the Special Advocate.
