
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter III - Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice
### PART 301 - INMATE ACCIDENT COMPENSATION
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 301.105 Investigation and report of injury.

(a) After initiating necessary action for medical attention, the work detail supervisor shall immediately secure a record of the cause, nature, and exact extent of the injury. The work detail supervisor shall complete a BP-140, Injury Report (Inmate), on all injuries reported by the inmate, as well as injuries observed by staff. In the case of injuries on work details for other federal entities, the work supervisor shall also immediately inform community corrections or institution staff, as appropriate, of the injury. The injury report shall contain a signed statement from the inmate on how the accident occurred. The names and statements of all witnesses (e.g., staff, inmates, or others) shall be included in the report. If the injury resulted from the operation of mechanical equipment, an identifying description or photograph of the machine or instrument causing the injury shall be obtained, to include a description of all safety equipment used by the injured inmate at the time of the injury. Staff shall provide the inmate with a copy of the injury report. Staff shall then forward the original and remaining copies of the injury report to the Institutional Safety Manager for review. In the case of inmates based at community corrections centers, the work detail supervisor shall provide the inmate with a copy of the injury report and shall forward the original and remaining copies of the injury report to the Community Corrections Manager responsible for the particular community corrections center where the inmate is housed.

(b) The Institution Safety Manager or Community Corrections Manager shall ensure that a medical description of the injury is included on the BP-140 whenever the injury requires medical attention. The Institution Safety Manager or Community Corrections Manager shall also ensure that the appropriate sections of BP-140, Page 2, Injury-Lost-Time Follow-Up Report, are completed and that all reported work injuries are properly documented.
