
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter III - Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice
### PART 345 - FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES (FPI) INMATE WORK PROGRAMS
#### Subpart D - Recruitment and Hiring Practices
##### ยง 345.35 Assignments to FPI.

(a) An inmate or detainee may be considered for assignment with FPI unless the inmate is a pretrial inmate or is currently under an order of deportation, exclusion, or removal. However, an inmate or detainee who is currently under an order of deportation, exclusion, or removal may be considered for assignment with FPI if the Attorney General has determined that the inmate or detainee cannot be removed from the United States because the designated country of removal will not accept his/her return. Any request by an inmate for consideration must be made through the unit team. FPI does not discriminate on the bases of race, color, religion, ethnic origin, age, or disability.

(b) The SOI ordinarily makes assignments based on the recommendation of the unit team.

(1) New workers are ordinarily assigned at pay grade five. All first-time inmate workers shall enter at pay grade five and may be required to successfully complete a course in pre-industrial training or on-the-job training (as available) before promotion to pay grade four.

(2) An inmate who has not successfully completed pre-industrial or on-the-job training remains at pay grade five for at least 30 days.

(3) An inmate hired after having resigned voluntarily from FPI may be excused from pre-industrial training and may be hired at a pay grade based on previous training and experience.
