
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter III - Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice
### PART 345 - FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES (FPI) INMATE WORK PROGRAMS
#### Subpart E - Inmate Worker Standards and Performance Appraisal
##### ยง 345.42 Inmate worker dismissal.

The SOI may remove an inmate from Industries work status in cooperation with the unit team.

(a) The SOI may remove an inmate from FPI work status according to the conditions outlined in the pay and benefits section of this policy and in cooperation with the unit team.

(b) An inmate may be removed from FPI work status for failure to comply with any court-mandated financial responsibility. (See 28 CFR 545.11(d)).

(c) An inmate found to have committed a prohibited act (whether or not it is FPI related) resulting in segregation or disciplinary transfer is also to be dismissed from Industries based on an unsatisfactory performance rating for failure to be at work.

(d) Any inmate or detainee who is a pretrial inmate or who is currently under an order of deportation, exclusion, or removal shall be removed from any FPI work assignment and reassigned to a non-FPI work assignment for which the inmate is eligible. However, an inmate or detainee who is currently under an order of deportation, exclusion, or removal may be retained in the FPI assignment if the Attorney General has determined that the inmate or detainee cannot be removed from the United States because the designated country of removal will not accept his/her return.
