
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter III - Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice
### PART 345 - FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES (FPI) INMATE WORK PROGRAMS
#### Subpart H - FPI Inmate Training and Scholarship Programs
##### ยง 345.84 The FPI scholarship fund.
###### Scholarship program operation.

(c)(1) Ordinarily, one scholarship may be awarded per school period for every fifty workers assigned. At least one scholarship may be awarded at each institution location, regardless of the number of inmates assigned.

(2) Individual scholarships ordinarily should not exceed the cost of tuition and books for one course. Where several courses may be taken for the same cost as one, the inmate worker may be allowed to take more than one course.

(3) Scholarship monies are to be paid only to the institution providing instruction, or to the Education Department for transfer of funds to the college, university, or technical institution providing instruction.

(4) An inmate may not receive more than one scholarship per school period.

(5) An inmate must maintain at least a "C" average to be continued as eligible for further assistance. An inmate earning less than "C" must wait one school period of eligibility before reapplying for further assistance. Where a course grade is based on a "pass/fail" system, the course must be "passed" to be eligible for further assistance.

(6) An inmate awarded a correspondence course must successfully complete the course during a school year (e.g., 2 semesters, 3 quarters).

(7) An inmate receiving scholarship aid must have approval from the SOI and the Supervisor of Education before withdrawing from classes for good reason. An inmate withdrawing or "dropping" courses without permission shall wait one school year before applying for further scholarship assistance. An inmate may withdraw from courses without penalty for medical or non-disciplinary administrative reasons such as transfer, writ, release, etc., without first securing permission, although withdrawals for medical reasons must be certified in writing by the Hospital Administrator.
