
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 2 - PAROLE, RELEASE, SUPERVISION AND RECOMMITMENT OF PRISONERS, YOUTH OFFENDERS, AND JUVENILE DELINQUENTS
#### Subpart D - District of Columbia Supervised Releasees
##### § 2.218 Revocation decisions.

(a) Whenever a releasee is summoned or retaken by the Commission, and the Commission finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the releasee has violated one or more conditions of supervised release, the Commission may take any of the following actions:

(1) Restore the releasee to supervision, and where appropriate:

(i) Reprimand the releasee;

(ii) Modify the releasee's conditions of release;

(iii) Refer the releasee to a residential community corrections center for all or part of the remainder of the term of supervised release; or

(2) Revoke the term of supervised release.

(b) If supervised release is revoked, the Commission shall determine whether the releasee shall be returned to prison to serve a new term of imprisonment, and the length of that term, or whether a new term of imprisonment shall be imposed but limited to time served. If the Commission imposes a new term of imprisonment that is less than the applicable maximum term of imprisonment authorized by law, the Commission shall also determine whether to impose a further term of supervised release to commence after the new term of imprisonment has been served. If the new term of imprisonment is limited to time served, any further term of supervised release shall commence upon the issuance of the Commission's order. Notwithstanding the above, if a releasee is serving another term of imprisonment of 30 days or more in connection with a conviction for a federal, state, or local crime (including a term of imprisonment resulting from a probation, parole, or supervised release revocation), a further term of supervised release imposed by the Commission under this paragraph shall not commence until that term of imprisonment has been served.

(c) A releasee whose term of supervised release is revoked by the Commission shall receive no credit for time spent on supervised release, including any time spent in confinement on other sentences (or in a halfway house as a condition of supervised release) prior to the execution of the Commission's warrant.

(d) The Commission's decision regarding the imposition of a term of imprisonment following revocation of supervised release, and any further term of supervised release, shall be made pursuant to the limitations set forth in § 2.219. Within those limitations, the appropriate length of any term of imprisonment shall be determined by reference to the guidelines at § 2.21. If the term of imprisonment authorized under § 2.219 is less than the minimum of the appropriate guideline range determined under § 2.21, the term authorized under § 2.219 shall be the guideline range.

(e) If the Commission imposes a new term of imprisonment that is equal to the maximum term of imprisonment authorized by law or, in the case of a subsequent revocation, that uses up the remainder of the maximum term of imprisonment by law, the Commission may not impose a further term of supervised release.

(f) Where deemed appropriate, the Commission may depart from the guidelines at § 2.21 (with respect to the imposition of a new term of imprisonment) in order to permit the imposition of a further term of supervised release.

(g) Decisions under this section shall be made upon the vote of one Commissioner, except that a decision to override an examiner panel recommendation shall require the concurrence of two Commissioners. The final decision following a local revocation hearing shall be issued within 86 days of the retaking of the releasee on a supervised release violation warrant. The final decision following an institutional revocation hearing shall be issued within 21 days of the hearing, excluding weekends and holidays.
