
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart H - Antitrust Division
##### ยง 0.41 Special functions.

The following functions are assigned to, and shall be conducted, handled, or supervised by, the Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division:

(a) Institution of proceedings to impose penalties for violations of section 202(a) of the Communications Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 1070), as amended (47 U.S.C. 202(a)), which prohibits common carriers by wire or radio from unjustly or unreasonably discriminating among persons, classes of persons, or localities.

(b) Representing the United States in suits pending as of February 28, 1975, before three-judge district courts under sections 2321-2325 of title 28 of the U.S. Code, to enforce, suspend, enjoin, annul, or set aside, in whole or in part, any order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. (Pub. L. 93-584, Sec. 10, 88 Stat. 1917)

(c) Representing the United States in proceedings before courts of appeals to review orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal Maritime Commission and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (28 U.S.C. 2341-2350).

(d) Representing the Civil Aeronautics Board, and the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegates under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, in courts of appeals reviewing their respective administrative orders.

(e) Defending the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegates under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, and the agencies named in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this section or their officers against the injunctive actions brought in Federal courts when the matter which is the subject of the actions will ultimately be the subject of review under paragraph (c), (d), (e) or (g) of this section, or of an enforcement action under paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) Seeking review of or defending judgments rendered in proceedings under paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.

(g) Acting on behalf of the Attorney General with respect to sections 252 and 254 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, 42 U.S.C. 6272, 6274, including acting on behalf of the Attorney General with respect to voluntary agreements or plans of action established pursuant to section 252 of that Act.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) Acting on behalf of the Attorney General with respect to sections 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d) of the National Cooperative Production Amendments of 1993, Pub. L. No. 103-42, 107 Stat. 117 (15 U.S.C. 4305 note).

(j) Defending the Secretary of Commerce and the Attorney General, or their delegates, in actions to set aside a determination with respect to export trade certificates of review under section 305(a) of Public Law 97-290 (15 U.S.C. 4015(a)).

(k) Acting on behalf of the Attorney General with respect to section 6 of the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-462, 98 Stat. 1815, as amended by the National Cooperative Production Amendments of 1993, Pub. L. No. 103-42, 107 Stat. 117 (15 U.S.C. 4305).
