
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter A - General Management and Administration
#### PART 513 - ACCESS TO RECORDS
##### Subpart D - Release of Information
###### Inmate Requests to Institution for Information
####### ยง 513.41 Inmate access to Inmate Central File in connection with parole hearings.

A parole-eligible inmate (an inmate who is currently serving a sentence for an offense committed prior to November 1, 1987) may review disclosable portions of the Inmate Central File prior to the inmate's parole hearing, under the general procedures set forth in ยง 513.40. In addition, the following guidelines apply:

(a) A parole-eligible inmate may request to review his or her Inmate Central File by submitting the appropriate Parole Commission form. This form ordinarily shall be available to each eligible inmate within five work days after a list of eligible inmates is prepared.

(b) Bureau staff ordinarily shall schedule an eligible inmate for a requested Inmate Central File review within seven work days of the request after the inmate has been scheduled for a parole hearing. A reasonable extension of time is permitted for documents which have been provided (prior to the inmate's request) to originating agencies for clearance, or which are otherwise not available at the institution.

(c) A report received from another agency which is determined to be nondisclosable (see ยง 513.40(b)) will be summarized by that agency, in accordance with Parole Commission regulations. Bureau staff shall place the summary in the appropriate disclosable section of the Inmate Central File. The original report (or portion which is summarized in another document) will be placed in the portion of the Privacy File for Joint Use by the Bureau and the Parole Commission.

(d) Bureau documents which are determined to be nondisclosable to the inmate will be summarized for the inmate's review. A copy of the summary will be placed in the disclosable section of the Inmate Central File. The document from which the summary is taken will be placed in the Joint Use Section of the Privacy Folder. Nondisclosable documents not summarized for the inmate's review are not available to the Parole Commission and are placed in a nondisclosable section of the Inmate Central File.

(e) When no response regarding disclosure has been received from an originating agency in time for inmate review prior to the parole hearing, Bureau staff are to inform the Parole Commission Hearing Examiner.
