
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter A - General Management and Administration
#### PART 513 - ACCESS TO RECORDS
##### Subpart D - Release of Information
###### Inmate Requests to Institution for Information
####### ยง 513.42 Inmate access to medical records.

(a) Except for the limitations of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, an inmate may review records from his or her medical file (including dental records) by submitting a request to a staff member designated by the Warden.

(b) Laboratory reports which contain only scientific testing results and which contain no staff evaluation or opinion (such as Standard Form 514A, Urinalysis) are ordinarily disclosable. Lab results of HIV testing may be reviewed by the inmate. However, an inmate may not retain a copy of his or her test results while the inmate is confined in a Bureau facility or a Community Corrections Center. A copy of an inmate's HIV test results may be forwarded to a third party outside the institution and chosen by the inmate, provided that the inmate gives written authorization for the disclosure.

(c) Medical records containing subjective evaluations and opinions of medical staff relating to the inmate's care and treatment will be provided to the inmate only after the staff review required by paragraph (d) of this section. These records include, but are not limited to, outpatient notes, consultation reports, narrative summaries or reports by a specialist, operative reports by the physician, summaries by specialists as the result of laboratory analysis, or in-patient progress reports.

(d) Prior to release to the inmate, records described in paragraph (c) of this section shall be reviewed by staff to determine if the release of this information would present a harm to either the inmate or other individuals. Any records determined not to present a harm will be released to the inmate at the conclusion of the review by staff. If any records are determined by staff not to be releasable based upon the presence of harm, the inmate will be so advised in writing and provided the address of the agency component to which the inmate may address a formal request for the withheld records. An accounting of any medical records will be maintained in the inmate's medical file.
