
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Inmate Admission, Classification, and Transfer
#### PART 523 - COMPUTATION OF SENTENCE
##### Subpart B - Extra Good Time
###### ยง 523.10 Purpose and scope.

(a) The Bureau of Prisons awards extra good time credit for performing exceptionally meritorious service, or for performing duties of outstanding importance or for employment in an industry or camp. An inmate may earn only one type of extra good time award at a time (e.g., an inmate earning industrial or camp good time is not eligible for meritorious good time), except that a lump sum award as provided in ยง 523.16 may be given in addition to another extra good time award. The Warden or the Discipline Hearing Officer may not forfeit or withhold extra good time. The Warden may disallow or terminate the awarding of any type of extra good time (except lump sum awards), but only in a nondisciplinary context and only upon recommendation of staff. The Discipline Hearing Officer may disallow or terminate the awarding of any type of extra good time (except lump sum awards), as a disciplinary sanction. Once an awarding of meritorious good time has been terminated, the Warden must approve a new staff recommendation in order for the award to recommence. A "disallowance" means that an inmate does not receive an extra good time award for only one calendar month. Unless other action is taken, the award resumes the following calendar month. A "disallowance" must be for the entire amount of extra good time for that calendar month. There may be no partial disallowance. A decision to disallow or terminate extra good time may not be suspended pending future consideration. A retroactive award of meritorious good time may not include a month in which extra good time has been disallowed or terminated.

(b) The provisions of this rule do not apply to inmates sentenced under the Sentencing Reform Act provisions of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984. This means that inmates sentenced under the Sentencing Reform Act provisions for offenses committed on or after November 1, 1987 are not eligible for either statutory or extra good time, but may be considered for a maximum of 54 days of good conduct time credit per year (see 18 U.S.C. 3624(b)).
