
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter B - Inmate Admission, Classification, and Transfer
#### PART 524 - CLASSIFICATION OF INMATES
##### Subpart F - Central Inmate Monitoring (CIM) System
###### ยง 524.73 Classification procedures.
####### Removal.

(d)(1) Because participation in the Department of Justice Witness Security Program is voluntary, such participants may request removal from this assignment at any time. Such request shall be forwarded to the Central Office Inmate Monitoring Section. Actual removal of the CIM assignment will not occur until after approval from the Department of Justice is received.

(2) The reviewing authority is responsible for determining if removal or modification of any CIM classification other than a Department of Justice Witness Security case is appropriate. The inmate retains the CIM classification pending a decision by the reviewing authority.

(3) When an inmate is removed for any reason from a CIM classification (for example, because the reviewing authority either disapproves the CIM classification or approves removal of a CIM classification based on new information), the appropriate staff member shall ensure that the relevant portions of the inmate central file are either removed or, when part of a larger document, are amended to clearly reflect removal of the CIM assignment. Staff shall notify the inmate of the decision and document any change in the inmate's record, and supportive documentation and the written basis for removal are to be retained in the inmate privacy file.
