
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 540 - CONTACT WITH PERSONS IN THE COMMUNITY
##### Subpart E - Contact With News Media
###### ยง 540.65 Release of information.

(a) The Warden shall promptly make announcements stating the facts of unusual, newsworthy incidents to local news media. Examples are deaths, inside escapes, and institution emergencies.

(b) The Warden shall provide information about an inmate that is a matter of public record to the representatives of the media upon request. The information is limited to the inmate's:

(1) Name;

(2) Register number;

(3) Place of incarceration;

(4) Age;

(5) Race;

(6) Conviction and sentencing data: this includes the offense(s) for which convicted, the court where convicted, the date of sentencing, the length of sentence(s), the amount of good time earned, the parole eligibility date and parole release (presumptive or effective) date, and the date of expiration of sentence, and includes previous Federal, state, and local convictions;

(7) Past movement via transfers or writs;

(8) General institutional assignments.

(c) Information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section may not be released if confidential for protection cases.

(d) A request for additional information concerning an inmate by a representative of the news media is referred to the Public Information Officer, Central Office, Washington, DC.

(e) The Public Information Officer, Central Office, Washington, DC shall release all announcements related to:

(1) Bureau of Prisons policy;

(2) Changes in an institutional mission;

(3) Type of inmate population; or

(4) Changes in executive personnel.
