
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 541 - INMATE DISCIPLINE AND SPECIAL HOUSING UNITS
##### Subpart D - Control Unit Programs
###### ยง 541.48 Search of control unit inmates.

(a) The Warden at an institution housing a control unit may order a digital or simple instrument search for all new admissions to the control unit. The Warden may also order a digital or simple instrument search for any inmate who is returned to the control unit following contact with the public. Authorization for a digital or simple instrument search must be in writing, signed by the Warden, with a copy placed in the inmate central file. The Warden's authority may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden.

(b) An inmate in a control unit may request in writing that an X-ray be taken in lieu of the digital search discussed in paragraph (a) of this section. The Warden shall approve this request, provided it is determined and stated in writing by the institution's Clinical Director or Acting Clinical Director (may not be further delegated) that the amount of X-ray exposure previously received by the inmate, or anticipated to be given the inmate in the immediate future, does not make the proposed X-ray medically unwise. Staff are to place documentation of the X-ray, and the inmate's signed request for it, in the inmate's central and medical files. The Warden's authority may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden.

(c) Staff may not conduct a digital or simple instrument search if it is likely to result in physical injury to the inmate. In this situation, the Warden, upon approval of the Regional Director, may authorize the institution physician to order a non-repetitive X-ray for the purpose of determining if contraband is concealed in or on the inmate. The X-ray examination may not be performed if it is determined by the institution physician that such an examination is likely to result in serious or lasting medical injury or harm to the inmate. Staff are to place documentation of the X-ray examination in the inmate's central file and medical file. The authority of the Warden and Regional Director may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden and Acting Regional Director respectively. If neither a digital or simple instrument search, nor an X-ray examination may be used, the inmate is to be placed in a dry cell until sufficient time has passed to allow excretion.

(d) Staff shall solicit the inmate's written consent prior to conducting a digital or simple instrument search, or, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, an X-ray examination. However, the inmate's consent is not required.
