
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 541 - INMATE DISCIPLINE AND SPECIAL HOUSING UNITS
##### Subpart E - Procedures for Handling of HIV Positive Inmates Who Pose Danger to Others
###### ยง 541.63 Hearing procedure.

(a) The Regional Director in the region where the inmate is located shall review the institution's recommendation for referral of an inmate for controlled housing status. If the Regional Director concurs with the recommendation, the Regional Director shall designate a person in the Regional Office or a person at department head level or above in the institution to conduct a hearing on the appropriateness of an inmate's placement in controlled housing status. This Hearing Administrator shall have correctional experience, no former personal involvement in the instant situation, and a knowledge of the type of behavior that poses a health risk to others, and of the options available for dealing with an inmate who poses such a health risk to others.

(b) The Hearing Administrator shall provide a hearing to an inmate recommended for controlled housing status. The hearing ordinarily shall take place at the institution housing the inmate.

(c) The hearing shall proceed as follows:

(1) Staff shall provide an inmate with an advance written notice of the hearing and a copy of this rule at least 24 hours prior to the hearing. The notice will advise the inmate of the specific act(s) or other evidence which forms the basis for a recommendation that the inmate be placed in a controlled housing status, unless such evidence would likely endanger staff or others. If an inmate is illiterate, staff shall explain the notice and this rule to the inmate and document that this explanation has occurred.

(2) The Hearing Administrator shall upon request of the inmate provide an inmate the service of a full-time staff member to represent the inmate. The Hearing Administrator shall document in the record of the hearing an inmate's request for, or refusal of staff representation. The inmate may select a staff representative from the local institution. If the selected staff member declines for good reason or is unavailable, the inmate has the option of selecting another representative or, in the case of an absent staff member, of waiting a reasonable period (determined by the Hearing Administrator) for the staff member's return, or of proceeding without a staff representative. When an inmate is illiterate, the Warden shall provide a staff representative. The staff representative shall be available to assist the inmate and, if the inmate desires, shall contact witnesses and present favorable evidence at the hearing. The Hearing Administrator shall afford the staff representative adequate time to speak with the inmate and to inteview available witnesses.

(3) The inmate has the right to be present throughout the hearing, except where institutional security or good order is jeopardized. The Hearing Adminstrator may conduct a hearing in the absence of the inmate when the inmate refuses to appear. The Hearing Administrator shall document an inmate's refusal to appear, or other reason for nonappearance, in the record of the hearing.

(4) The inmate is entitled to present documentary evidence and to have witnesses appear, provided that calling witnesses would not jeopardize or threaten institutional security or individual safety, and further provided that the witnesses are available at the institution where the hearing is being conducted.

(i) The evidence to be presented must be material and relevant to the issue as to whether the inmate can and would pose a health risk to others, if allowed to remain in general prison population. This evidence may come from the statements of the individual, repeated misconduct (including disciplinary actions), or other behavior suggesting that the inmate may engage in predatory or promiscuous sexual behavior, assaultive behavior where body fluids may be transmitted to others, or the sharing of needles.

(ii) Repetitive witnesses need not be called. Staff who recommend placement in a controlled housing status are not required to appear, provided their recommendation is fully explained in the record.

(iii) When a witness is not available within the institution, or not permitted to appear, the inmate may submit a written statement by that witness. The Hearing Administrator shall, upon the inmate's request, postpone any decision following the hearing for a reasonable time to permit the obtaining and forwarding of written statements.

(iv) The Hearing Administrator shall document in the record of the hearing the reasons for declining to hear a witness or to receive documentary evidence.
