
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 541 - INMATE DISCIPLINE AND SPECIAL HOUSING UNITS
##### Subpart E - Procedures for Handling of HIV Positive Inmates Who Pose Danger to Others
###### ยง 541.64 Decision of the Hearing Administrator.

(a) At the conclusion of the hearing and following review of all material related to the recommendation for placement of an inmate in a controlled housing status, the Hearing Administrator shall prepare a written decision as to whether this placement is warranted. The Hearing Administrator shall:

(1) Prepare a summary of the hearing and of all information presented upon which the decision is based; and

(2) Indicate the specific reasons for the decision, to include a description of the act, or series of acts, or other reliable evidence on which the decision is based, along with evidence of the inmate's HIV positive status.

(b) The Hearing Administrator shall advise the inmate in writing of the decision. The inmate shall receive the information described in paragraph (a) of this section unless it is determined that the release of this information could pose a threat to individual safety, or institutional security, in which case that limited information may be withheld. The Hearing Administrator shall advise the inmate that the decision will be submitted for review of the Regional Director in the region where the inmate is located. The Hearing Administrator shall advise the inmate that, if the inmate so desires, the inmate may submit an appeal of the Hearing Administrator's decision to the Regional Director. This appeal, with supporting documentation and reasons, must be filed within five working days of the inmate's receipt of the Hearing Administrator's decision.

(c) The Hearing Administrator may order the continuation of the inmate in special housing pending review by the Regional Director. The Hearing Administrator should state the reasons for this order in the record of the Hearing.

(d) The Hearing Administrator shall send the decision, whether for or against placement in a controlled housing status, and supporting documentation to the Regional Director. Ordinarily, this is done within 20 working days after conclusion of the hearing. Any reason for extension is to be documented.
