
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 541 - INMATE DISCIPLINE AND SPECIAL HOUSING UNITS
##### Subpart E - Procedures for Handling of HIV Positive Inmates Who Pose Danger to Others
###### ยง 541.66 Programs and services.

To the extent consistent with available resources and the security needs of the institution, an inmate in controlled housing status is to be considered for activities and privileges afforded to the general population. This includes, but is not limited to, providing an inmate with the opportunity for participation in an education program, library services, counseling, and religious guidance, as well as access to case management, medical and mental health assistance, and legal services, including access to the institution's law libraries. An inmate in controlled housing status should be afforded at least five hours weekly recreation and exercise out of the cell. The recreation shall be by himself or under close supervision. Unless there are compelling reasons to the contrary, institutions shall provide commissary privileges and reasonable amounts of personal property. The Warden may restrict for reasons of security, fire safety, or housekeeping the amount of personal property that an inmate may retain while in controlled housing status. An inmate shall be permitted to have a radio, provided it is equipped with ear plugs. Visits shall be carefully monitored.
