
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 544 - EDUCATION
##### Subpart I - Education, Training and Leisure-Time Program Standards
###### ยง 544.82 General program characteristics.

(a) The Supervisor of Education shall assure that the following minimum criteria are met for the institution's education program set forth in ยง 544.81.

(1) There is a written curriculum which establishes measurable behavioral objectives and procedures.

(2) There are clear criteria which establish minimum expectations for program completion, as well as provisions for the assessment of student progress.

(3) There are provisions for periodic review of the relevancy and effectiveness of the program.

(4) Unless unusual circumstances (e.g., college credit courses) exist, all programs should allow for open entry and exit, at least on a monthly basis.

(5) The Supervisor of Education may establish other requirements necessary to assure that the stated goals of the program are achieved.

(b) Upon an inmate's completion of a program specified in ยง 544.81, staff may issue and/or review and file a certificate when it contributes to an inmate's future plans in such a way that it validates the inmate's education and training; supports the inmate's chances of securing employment; improves the inmate's acceptance for advanced education; or enhances the inmate's opportunity for success in any other activity the inmate chooses to pursue. The certificate will confirm that the inmate has completed the requirements to receive a certificate that fits one or a combination of the following categories:

(1) Accredited certificates-high school diplomas and occupation training certificates approved or issued through local school districts, state departments of education, or other recognized accrediting educational organizations;

(2) Postsecondary certificates and transcripts-postsecondary degrees or course certificates approved or issued through a sponsoring accredited educational institution;

(3) General Educational Development tests-programs sponsored by the American Council on Education;

(4) Private certificates-outside agencies, private business and industry, other than those stated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;

(5) Institutional certificates-approved general education, occupation training, recreation, adult continuing education and social education certificates, issued to an inmate who completes a program, and when the institution cannot provide a certificate as provided in paragraphs (b) (1) and (4) of this section; or

(6) Transcripts-issued to an inmate who completes general education programs, formal occupation training, on-the-job and apprentice training and work assignments. With the inmate's consent, transcripts may be sent to schools and colleges, business, industries and other agencies.
