
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 545 - WORK AND COMPENSATION
##### Subpart C - Inmate Work and Performance Pay Program
###### ยง 545.23 Inmate work/program assignment.

(a) Each sentenced inmate who is physically and mentally able is to be assigned to an institutional, industrial, or commissary work program. Exception shall be made to allow for inmate participation in an education, vocational, or drug abuse treatment program, on either a full or part-time basis, where this involvement is mandated by Bureau policy or statute (for example, the Literacy Program). Where such participation is not required by either policy or statute, exception may be made to allow an inmate to participate in an education, vocational, or drug abuse treatment program rather than work full-time upon the request of the inmate and approval of the Warden or designee.

(b) A pretrial inmate may not be required to work in any assignment or area other than housekeeping tasks in the inmate's own cell and in the community living area, unless the pretrial inmate has signed a waiver of his or her right not to work (see 28 CFR part 551, subpart J).

(c) Medically unassigned inmates may be required, to the extent medically possible, to perform housekeeping tasks in the inmate's own cell and in the community living area.

(d) In making the work and/or program assignment(s), staff shall consider the inmate's capacity to learn, interests, requests, needs, and eligibility, and the availability of the assignment(s). An inmate's assignment shall be made with consideration of the institution's security and operational needs, and should be consistent with the safekeeping of the inmate and protection of the public.
