
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 545 - WORK AND COMPENSATION
##### Subpart C - Inmate Work and Performance Pay Program
###### ยง 545.26 Performance pay provisions.

(a) The Warden shall ensure that all institution work assignments have standardized work descriptions. Each inmate work position is assigned one of four pay grade levels. Factors to consider in assigning a grade level to the specific work position include the position's educational and vocational requirements, physical demands, working conditions (exposed to dusts, odors, etc.), and the degree of responsibility held by the inmate worker. The inmate assigned to a specific work position shall sign, and, if requested, receive a copy of, that position description.

(b) In recognition of budgetary constraints and for the effective management of the overall performance pay program, the percentage of inmates assigned to each grade level is approximately as follows (Grade 1 is highest pay):

(c) An inmate may receive performance pay only for that portion of the month that the inmate was working. Performance pay may not be awarded retroactively.

(d) An inmate is eligible to receive performance pay only for those hours during which the inmate is actually performing satisfactory work or actively participating in an education or vocational training program. Absences from an inmate's scheduled assignment for such reasons as call-outs, visits, sick call, interviews, or making telephone calls shall be deducted from the monthly number of hours worked and will accordingly reduce the amount of pay received by the inmate. Any exception to such reduction in pay must be approved by the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division, Central Office.
