
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 545 - WORK AND COMPENSATION
##### Subpart C - Inmate Work and Performance Pay Program
###### ยง 545.26 Performance pay provisions.
####### Work evaluation.

(e)(1) At the end of each month the work detail/program supervisor shall compute the hours worked by the inmate and the pay to be awarded for that month.

(2) An inmate shall receive performance pay only for those hours during which the inmate is actively participating in a work assignment or an education/vocational program.

(3) The work detail/program supervisor shall rate the inmate's performance in each of several categories on a monthly basis when the inmate's work performance is average or below average or on a quarterly basis when the inmate's work performance is above average. For example, an inmate may be rated in such categories as quality of work, quantity of work, initiative, ability to learn, dependability, response to supervision and instruction, safety and care of equipment, ability to work with others, and overall job proficiency. Any exception to the work performance evaluation procedures cited in this paragraph requires approval of the Assistant Director, Correctional Programs Division, Central Office. The work detail/program supervisor shall review the evaluation with the inmate. The supervisor shall request that the inmate sign the evaluation form. If the inmate refuses to sign the form, the supervisor shall note this refusal on the evaluation and, if known, the reasons for refusal.
