
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 549 - MEDICAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Authority To Conduct Autopsies
###### ยง 549.80 Authority to conduct autopsies.

(a) The Warden may order an autopsy and related scientific or medical tests to be performed on the body of a deceased inmate of the facility in the event of homicide, suicide, fatal illness or accident, or unexplained death. The autopsy or tests may be ordered in one of these situations only when the Warden determines that the autopsy or test is necessary to detect a crime, maintain discipline, protect the health or safety of other inmates, remedy official misconduct, or defend the United States or its employees from civil liability arising from the administration of the facility.

(1) The authority of the Warden under this section may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden.

(2) Where the Warden has the authority to order an autopsy under this provision, no non-Bureau of Prisons authorization (e.g., from either the coroner or from the inmate's next-of-kin) is required. A decision on whether to order an autopsy is ordinarily made after consultation with the attending physician, and a determination by the Warden that the autopsy is in accordance with the statutory provision. Once it is determined that an autopsy is appropriate, the Warden shall prepare a written statement authorizing this procedure. The written statement is to include the basis for approval.

(b) In any situation other than as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Warden may order an autopsy or post-mortem operation, including removal of tissue for transplanting, to be performed on the body of a deceased inmate of the facility with the written consent of a person (e.g., coroner, or next-of-kin, or the decedent's consent in the case of tissue removed for transplanting) authorized to permit the autopsy or post-mortem operation under the law of the State in which the facility is located.

(1) The authority of the Warden under this section may not be delegated below the level of Acting Warden.
