
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 549 - MEDICAL SERVICES
##### Subpart G - Authority To Conduct Autopsies
###### ยง 549.80 Authority to conduct autopsies.
####### collect

(2) When the conducting of an autopsy requires permission of the family or next-of-kin, the following message is to be included in the telegram notifying the family or next-of-kin of the death: "Permission is requested to perform a complete autopsy". Also inform the family or next-of-kin that they may telegraph the institutionwith their response. Where permission is not received from the person (e.g., coroner or next-of-kin) authorized to permit the autopsy or post-mortem operation, an autopsy or post-mortem operation may not be performed under the conditions of this paragraph (b).

(c) In addition to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, each institution also is expected to abide by the following procedures.

(1) Staff shall ensure that the state laws regarding the reporting of deaths are followed.

(2) Time is a critical factor in arranging for an autopsy, as this ordinarily must be performed within 48 hours. While a decision on an autopsy is pending, no action should be taken that will affect the validity of the autopsy results. Therefore, while the body may be released to a funeral home, this should be done only with the written understanding from the funeral home that no preparation for burial, including embalming, should be performed until a final decision is made on the need for an autopsy.

(3) Medical staff shall arrange for the approved autopsy to be performed.

(4) To the extent consistent with the needs of the autopsy or of specific scientific or medical tests, provisions of state and local laws protecting religious beliefs with respect to such autopsies are to be observed.
