
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 551 - MISCELLANEOUS
##### Subpart D - Inmate Organizations
###### ยง 551.34 Organization activities.

(a) An officer of the inmate organization must submit a written request for approval of an activity to the Warden or designee. Activities include, but are not limited to, meetings, guest speakers, sports competitions, banquets, or community programs. Activities may not include fund-raising projects. The request must specifically include:

(1) Name of the organization;

(2) Nature or purpose of the activity;

(3) Date, time, and estimated duration of the activity;

(4) Estimated cost;

(5) Information concerning guest participation; and

(6) Other pertinent information requested by the Warden.

(b) The Warden may approve the request if the activity:

(1) Does not conflict with scheduled inmate work or program activities;

(2) Has confirmation of staff supervision;

(3) Can be appropriately funded when applicable (see ยง 551.36); and

(4) Does not conflict with the security, good order, or discipline of the institution.

(c) When an activity requires the expenditure of government funds, the Warden ordinarily shall require reimbursement from non-inmate participants (guests or members).

(d) Each inmate organization shall be responsible for maintaining accurate records of its activities.

(e) The activities of an inmate organization may be suspended temporarily due to noncompliance with Bureau policy. The IOM is responsible for recommending the specific suspension sanction for the Warden's approval. The inmate organization is to receive written notice of the proposed suspension sanction and shall have the opportunity to respond to the Warden. Continued noncompliance with Bureau policy shall result in an increase in the severity of the suspension sanction, and may include withdrawal of approval of the organization.
