
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 552 - CUSTODY
##### Subpart B - Searches of Housing Units, Inmates, and Inmate Work Areas
###### ยง 552.12 Close observation.

When there is reasonable belief that an inmate has ingested contraband or concealed contraband in a body cavity and the methods of search specified in ยง 552.11 are inappropriate or likely to result in physical injury to the inmate, the Warden or designee may authorize the placement of an inmate in a room or cell for the purpose of staff's closely observing that inmate until the inmate has voided the contraband or until sufficient time has elapsed to preclude the possibility that the inmate is concealing contraband.

(a) The length of close observation status will be determined on an individual basis. Ordinarily, the Captain, in consultation with qualified health personnel, shall determine when termination is appropriate. The status of an inmate under close observation for as long as three days must be reviewed by the Segregation Review Official according to the provisions in ยง 541.22(c) of this chapter, and the initial SRO review conducted within three work days shall be a formal hearing. Maintaining an inmate under close observation beyond seven days requires approval of the Warden, who makes this decision in consultation with the Captain and qualified health personnel.

(b) The supervising staff member shall be the same sex as the inmate and shall maintain complete and constant visual supervision of the inmate.

(c) The supervisor responsible for initiating the close observation watch shall advise the inmate of the conditions and of what is expected.

(1) The inmate shall be required to provide a urine sample within two hours of placement under close observation in accordance with the provisions of ยง 550.30 of this chapter on urine surveillance. A second urine sample is required prior to releasing the inmate from close observation.

(2) The light will be kept on at all times.

(3) No inmate under close observation status may be allowed to come into contact with another inmate.

(4) The inmate ordinarily may not be allowed personal property while under close observation status, except legal and personal mail and a reasonable amount of legal materials when requested. Personal hygiene items will be controlled by staff.

(5) When the inmate is lying on a bed, the inmate shall be required to lie on top of the mattress in full view, weather and room temperature permitting. When necessary for the inmate to use cover, hands must remain visible at all times so that staff can observe any attempt to move contraband.

(6) Due to security concerns, the inmate ordinarily may not be permitted recreation outside of the cell.

(7) The inmate is to be served the same meals as those served to the general population, unless medically contraindicated.

(8) No medications may be given to the inmate except for those prescribed and given by hospital personnel. No laxatives may be given except natural laxatives, i.e., coffee, prune juice, etc.

(9) When the inmate needs to urinate and/or defecate, the inmate will be furnished an empty hospital bed pan.

(10) When the inmate requests to shave, to brush teeth, or other such request, a wash pan and container of water is to be provided for use in the cell.

(11) Institution staff shall be available to the inmate upon request, within reason and within the bounds of security concerns.
