
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter C - Institutional Management
#### PART 552 - CUSTODY
##### Subpart C - Use of Force and Application of Restraints on Inmates
###### ยง 552.22 Principles governing the use of force and application of restraints.

(a) Staff ordinarily shall first attempt to gain the inmate's voluntary cooperation before using force.

(b) Force may not be used to punish an inmate.

(c) Staff shall use only that amount of force necessary to gain control of the inmate. Situations when an appropriate amount of force may be warranted include, but are not limited to:

(1) Defense or protection of self or others;

(2) Enforcement of institutional regulations; and

(3) The prevention of a crime or apprehension of one who has committed a crime.

(d) Where immediate use of restraints is indicated, staff may temporarily apply such restraints to an inmate to prevent that inmate from hurting self, staff, or others, and/or to prevent serious property damage. When the temporary application of restraints is determined necessary, and after staff have gained control of the inmate, the Warden or designee is to be notified immediately for a decision on whether the use of restraints should continue.

(e) Staff may apply restraints (for example, handcuffs) to the inmate who continues to resist after staff achieve physical control of that inmate, and may apply restraints to any inmate who is placed under control by the Use of Force Team Technique. If an inmate in a forcible restraint situation refuses to move to another area on his own, staff may physically move that inmate by lifting and carrying the inmate to the appropriate destination.

(f) Restraints should remain on the inmate until self-control is regained.

(g) Except when the immediate use of restraints is required for control of the inmate, staff may apply restraints to, or continue the use of progressive restraints on, an inmate while in a cell in administrative detention or disciplinary segregation only with approval of the Warden or designee.

(h) Restraint equipment or devices (e.g., handcuffs) may not be used in any of the following ways:

(1) As a method of punishing an inmate.

(2) About an inmate's neck or face, or in any manner which restricts blood circulation or obstructs the inmate's airways.

(3) In a manner that causes unnecessary physical pain or extreme discomfort.

(4) To secure an inmate to a fixed object, such as a cell door or cell grill, except as provided in ยง 552.24.

(i) Medication may not be used as a restraint solely for security purposes.

(j) All incidents involving the use of force and the application of restraints (as specified in ยง 552.27) must be carefully documented.
