
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter D - Community Programs and Release
#### PART 570 - COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart D - Escorted Trips
###### ยง 570.42 Non-medical escorted trips.
####### Escorted trip procedures-emergency non-medical reasons.

(b)Unit staff are to investigate, and determine, the merits of an escorted trip following a review of the available information. This includes contacting those persons (e.g., attending physician, hospital staff, funeral home staff, family members, U.S. Probation Officer) who can contribute to a determination on whether an escorted trip should be approved.

(1) The government assumes the salary expenses of escort staff for the first eight hours of each day. All other expenses, including transportation costs, are assumed by the inmate, the inmate's family, or other appropriate source approved by the Warden. The necessary funds must be deposited to the inmate's trust fund account prior to the trip. Funds paid by the inmate for purposes of the escorted trip are then drawn, payable to the Treasury of the United States. Unexpended funds are returned to the inmate's trust fund account following the completion of the trip.

(2) A request for an inmate to receive an emergency non-medical escorted trip is prepared by unit staff, forwarded through the appropriate staff for screening and clearance, and then submitted to the Warden. Except as specified in ยง 570.43, the Warden may approve an inmate for an emergency non-medical escorted trip.
