
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter D - Community Programs and Release
#### PART 571 - RELEASE FROM CUSTODY
##### Subpart B - Release Preparation Program
###### ยง 571.13 Institution release preparation program.

(a) The institution release preparation program shall be administered by the Release Preparation Program Committee.

(b) The institution release preparation program will be based on a core curriculum of topics/courses organized into six broad categories. The six categories are:

(1) Health and nutrition.

(2) Employment.

(3) Personal finance/consumer skills.

(4) Information/community resources.

(5) Release requirements and procedures.

(6) Personal growth and development.

(c) To assist in the release process, the Warden may, in accordance with the Bureau of Prisons' rule on furloughs, grant an inmate a furlough for release preparation purposes.

(d) Staff shall help an inmate obtain proper identification (social security card, driver's license, birth certificate, and/or any other documents needed by the inmate) prior to release.

(e) An inmate who is not being released through a Community Corrections Center (CCC) may ask staff to request the assistance of a United States Probation Officer in establishing a release plan. Bureau staff are to encourage the inmate to give at least one employment lead or contact. Where the inmate or the inmate's family has already identified employment, the case manager shall notify the United States Probation Officer so that the usual verification of release plans may be made. Where employment has not been identified, the case manager shall notify the United States Probation Officer of the employment need. This notification should ordinarily occur at least six weeks prior to the inmate's release.
