
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter D - Community Programs and Release
#### PART 571 - RELEASE FROM CUSTODY
##### Subpart C - Release Gratuities, Transportation, and Clothing
###### ยง 571.21 Procedures.

(a) An inmate is eligible for a gratuity as determined by the availability of personal and community resources. Greater consideration may be given to an inmate without funds or community resources.

(b) A federal prisoner boarded in a non-federal facility is eligible for a release gratuity. The director of the non-federal facility housing federal inmates or the community corrections manager shall determine the amount of release gratuity in accordance with the purpose and scope of this regulation for federal inmates housed in non-federal facilities.

(c) An inmate who is without personal funds may receive a gratuity when transferred to a community corrections center. The amount shall enable the inmate to care for needs in transit and allow for the purchase of necessary personal items upon arrival.

(d) Staff shall provide the inmate released to a detainer with information on how to apply for a gratuity if released prior to expiration of the federal sentence.

(e) Staff will ensure that each alien released to immigration authorities for the purpose of release or transfer to a community corrections center has $10 cash. This provision does not apply to aliens being released for the purpose of deportation, exclusion, or removal, or to aliens detained or serving 60 days or less in contract facilities.
