
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter D - Community Programs and Release
#### PART 571 - RELEASE FROM CUSTODY
##### Subpart E - Petition for Commutation of Sentence
###### ยง 571.41 Procedures.

(a) Staff shall suggest that an inmate who wishes to submit a petition for commutation of sentence do so through the Warden to the U.S. Pardon Attorney. This procedure allows institution staff to forward with the application the necessary supplemental information (for example, sentencing information, presentence report, progress report, pertinent medical records if the petition involves the inmate's health, etc.). Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no Bureau of Prisons recommendation is to be forwarded with the package of material submitted to the U.S. Pardon Attorney.

(b) When specifically requested by the U.S. Pardon Attorney, the Director, Bureau of Prisons shall submit a recommendation on the petition. Prior to making a recommendation, the Director may request comments from the Warden at the institution where the inmate is confined. Upon review of those comments, the Director will forward a recommendation on the petition to the U.S. Pardon Attorney.

(c) When a petition for commutation of sentence is granted by the President of the United States, the U.S. Pardon Attorney will forward the original of the signed and sealed warrant of clemency evidencing the President's action to the Warden at the detaining institution, with a copy to the Director, Bureau of Prisons. The Warden shall deliver the original warrant to the affected inmate, and obtain a signed receipt for return to the U.S. Pardon Attorney. The Warden shall take such action as is indicated in the warrant of clemency.

(1) If a petition for commutation of sentence is granted, Bureau of Prisons staff shall recalculate the inmate's sentence in accordance with the terms of the commutation order.

(2) If the commutation grants parole eligibility, the inmate is to be placed on the appropriate parole docket.

(d) When a petition for commutation of sentence is denied, the U.S. Pardon Attorney ordinarily notifies the Warden, requesting that the Warden notify the inmate of the denial.
