
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter V - Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice
### Subchapter D - Community Programs and Release
#### PART 571 - RELEASE FROM CUSTODY
##### Subpart F - Fines and Costs
###### ยง 571.52 Procedures - committed fines.

(a)(1) Promptly after the inmate's commitment, staff shall inform the inmate that there is a committed fine, or fine and costs on file, as part of the sentence. Staff shall then impound the inmate's trust fund account until the fine, or fine and costs is paid, except-

(i) The inmate may spend money from his/her trust fund account for the purchase of commissary items not exceeding the maximum monthly allowance authorized for such purchases.

(ii) Staff may authorize the inmate to make withdrawals from his/her trust fund account for emergency family, emergency personal needs or furlough purposes.

(2) This rule of impounding an inmate's trust fund account applies only when the inmate is confined in a federal institution. It does not apply to a federal inmate confined in a state institution or a contract community-based facility.

(b) If the inmate pays the committed fine, or fine and costs, or staff have verified payment, staff shall document payment in the appropriate file and release the inmate's trust fund account from impoundment.

(c) Staff shall interview the inmate with an unpaid committed fine at least 75 days prior to the inmate's release date. Staff shall explain to the inmate that to secure release without paying the committed fine, or fine and costs in full, the inmate must make an application, on the appropriate form, to the U.S. Magistrate Judge for determination as to whether the inmate can be declared indigent under 18 U.S.C. 3569.
