
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter VIII - Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
### PART 802 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart B - Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 802.6 Freedom of Information Act requests.
###### Requests for offender records on behalf of an offender/defendant.

(ii)(A) A request for records made by an authorized representative of an offender/defendant will only be released with the subject's written authorization with appropriate releases. This authorization and releases must be dated within thirty (30) days of the date of the request letter and must be signed by the offender/defendant.

(B) To assist in properly identifying requested records, the OGC and/or FOIA Office may request that the offender/defendant provided his/her DCDC or PDID number.

(6) You must state in your request a firm agreement to pay the fees for search, duplication, and review as may ultimately be determined. The agreement may state the upper limit (but not less than $10.00) that the requester is willing to pay for processing the request. A request that fees be waived or reduced may accompany the agreement to pay fees and will be considered to the extent that such request is made in accordance with ยง 802.4(b) and provides supporting information to be measured against the fee waiver standard set forth in ยง 802.9(g). The requester shall be notified in writing of the decision to grant or deny the fee waiver. If a requester has an outstanding balance of search, review, or duplication fees due for FOIA request processing, the requirements of this paragraph (a)(6) are not met until the requester has remitted the outstanding balance due.
