
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter VIII - Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
### PART 802 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart B - Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 802.6 Freedom of Information Act requests.
###### Administrative appeal.

(c)(1) A requester may appeal an initial determination when:

(i) Access to records has been denied in whole or in part;

(ii) There has been an adverse determination of the requester's category as provided in ยง 802.10(d);

(iii) Inadequacy of the FOIA search;

(iv) A request for fee waiver or reduction has been denied; or

(v) It has been determined that no responsive records exist.

(2) Appeals must be made within ninety (90) days of the receipt of the letter with an adverse determination. Both the envelope and the letter of appeal should be sent to the Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, 633 Indiana Avenue NW., 13th Floor, Washington, DC 20004 and must be clearly marked "Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Appeal."

(3) The General Counsel will make an appeal determination within twenty (20) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) from the date of receipt of the appeal. However, for a good reason, this time limit may be extended up to an additional ten (10) days. If, after review, the General Counsel determines that additional information should be released, it will accompany the appeal response. If, after review, the General Counsel determines to uphold the initial review, we will inform you.
