
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter VIII - Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
### PART 802 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart B - Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 802.10 Fee schedule.
###### Waiver or reduction of fees.

(f)(1) Fees may be waived or reduced on a case-by-case basis in accordance with this paragraph (f)(1) by the official who determines the availability of the records, provided such waiver or reduction has been requested in writing. Fees shall be waived or reduced by this official when it is determined, based upon the submission of the requester, that a waiver or reduction of the fees is in the public interest because furnishing the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Fee waiver/reduction requests shall be evaluated against the current fee waiver policy guidance issued by the Department of Justice.

(2) Appeals from denials of requests for waiver or reduction of fees shall be decided in accordance with the criteria set forth in this section by the official authorized to decide appeals from denials of access to records. Appeals shall be addressed in writing to the Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, Office of the General Counsel, 633 Indiana Avenue NW., 13th Floor, Washington, DC 20004 within thirty (30) days of the denial of the initial request for waiver or reduction and shall be decided within twenty (20) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays).

(3) Appeals from an adverse determination of the requester's category as described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section shall be decided by the official authorized to decide appeals from denials of access to records and shall be based upon a review of the requester's submission and the Agency's own records. Appeals shall be addressed in writing to the office or officer specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the Agency's determination of the requester's category and shall be decided within twenty (20) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays).
