
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter VIII - Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
### PART 802 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
#### Subpart C - Privacy Act
##### ยง 802.14 Requests for access to records.
###### Submission and processing procedures.

(a)(1) Requests for any agency record about yourself ordinarily will be processed pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a. Such a request must be made in writing and addressed to the FOIA Officer, Office of the General Counsel, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004. The requester should clearly mark on the face of the letter and the envelope "Privacy Act Request."

(2) Your request will be considered received as of the date it is received by the Office of the General Counsel. For quickest possible handling, you should mark both your request letter and the envelope "Privacy Act Request."

(3) You must describe the records that you seek in enough detail to enable Agency personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, your request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient and subject matter of the record. As a general rule, the more specific you are about the records or type of records that you want, the more likely the Agency will be able to locate the records in response to your request. If a determination is made that your request does not reasonably describe records, the Agency will tell you either what additional information is needed or why your request is otherwise insufficient. You will be given the opportunity to discuss your request so that you may modify it to meet the requirements of this section.
