
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter VIII - Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
### PART 811 - SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION
#### ยง 811.9 Periodic verification of registration information.

(a) Sex offenders who are required to register for life must verify registration information quarterly pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) All other sex offenders must verify registration information annually pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) Quarterly or annually, as appropriate, CSOSA will send a certified letter with return receipt requested to the home of the sex offender.

(d) The sex offender must correct any information on the form which is inaccurate or out of date and must sign, thumb-print, and return the form to CSOSA no later than 14 calendar days after the date on which CSOSA placed it in the mail. The sex offender has the option of returning the form by mail or in person unless:

(1) The sex offender is also on probation, parole, or supervised release or otherwise must report to CSOSA, and CSOSA directs the sex offender to verify the registration information in person;

(2) CSOSA directs the sex offender to appear in person because the sex offender has previously failed to submit a timely verification or submitted an incomplete or inaccurate verification; or

(3) CSOSA directs the sex offender to appear in person for the purpose of taking a new photograph documenting a significant change in physical appearance or updating a photograph that is five or more years old.

(e) CSOSA, either on its own accord or with its law enforcement partners, will conduct home verifications of registered sex offenders pursuant to the following schedule:

(1) Semi-annually, at least every six months, for all registered Class A sex offenders without supervision obligation.

(2) Annually, for all registered Class B sex offenders without a supervision obligation.

(3) As directed by CSOSA and consistent with Agency policy for all Class A and B sex offenders with supervision obligation.
