
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter IX - National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
### PART 901 - FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
#### ยง 901.3 Approval of delayed fingerprint submission requests.

(a) A state may, based upon exigent circumstances, apply for delayed submission of fingerprints supporting requests for III records by agencies authorized to access and receive criminal history records under Public Law 92-544. Such applications must be sent to the Compact Council Chairman and include information sufficient to fully describe the emergency nature of the situation in which delayed submission authority is being sought, the risk to health and safety of the individuals involved, and the reasons why the submission of fingerprints contemporaneously with the search request is not feasible.

(b) In evaluating requests for delayed submissions, the Compact Council must utilize the following criteria:

(1) The risk to health and safety; and

(2) The emergency nature of the request.

(c) Upon approval of the application by the Compact Council, the authorized agency may conduct a III name check pending submission of the fingerprints. The fingerprints must be submitted within the time frame specified by the Compact Council. For the purposes of this part, "time frame" means the number of days that elapse between the date on which the name search was conducted and the date on which the state repository either positively identifies the fingerprint subject or forwards the fingerprints to the FBI or the date a Federal agency forwards the fingerprints to the FBI.

(d) Once a specific proposal has been approved by the Compact Council, another state may apply for delayed fingerprint submission consistent with the approved proposal, provided that the state has a related Public Law 92-544 approved state statute, by submitting the application to the FBI Compact Officer, 1000 Custer Hollow Road, Module C-3, Clarksburg, WV 26306-0001.

(e) Part 901 is also applicable to any federal agency authorized to access criminal history records pursuant to Federal statute or Executive Order for noncriminal justice purposes.
