
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart I - Civil Division
##### ยง 0.47 Alien property matters.

The Office of Alien Property shall be a part of the Civil Division:

(a) The following described matters are assigned to, and shall be conducted, handled, or supervised by the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division, who shall also be the Director of the Office of Alien Property:

(1) Exercising or performing all the authority, rights, privileges, powers, duties, and functions delegated to or vested in the Attorney General under the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, title II of the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as amended, the act of September 28, 1950, 64 Stat. 1079 (50 U.S.C. App. 40), the Philippine Property Act of 1946, as amended, and the Executive orders relating to such acts, including, but not limited to, vesting, supervising, controlling, administering, liquidating, selling, paying debt claims out of, returning, and settling of intercustodial disputes relating to, property subject to one or more of such acts.

(2) Conducting and directing all civil litigation with respect to the Trading with the Enemy Act, title II of the International Claims Settlement Act, the Foreign Funds Control Program and the Foreign Assets Control Program.

(3) Designating within the Office of Alien Property a certifying officer, and an alternate, to certify copies of documents issued by the Director, or his designee, which are required to be filed with the Office of the Federal Register.

(b) The Director of the Office of Alien Property shall act for and on behalf of the Attorney General.

(c) All the authority, rights, privileges, powers, duties, and functions of the Director of the Office of Alien Property may be exercised or performed by any agencies, instrumentalities, agents, delegates, or other personnel designated by him.

(d) Existing delegations by the Assistant Attorney General, Director, Office of Alien Property, or the Director, Office of Alien Property, shall continue in force and effect until modified or revoked.

(e) The Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Division is authorized to administer and give effect to the provisions of the agreement entitled "Agreement Between the United States of America and the Republic of Austria Regarding the Return of Austrian Property, Rights and Interests," which was concluded on January 30, 1959, and was ratified by the Senate of the United States on February 25, 1964.
