
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart J - Civil Rights Division
##### ยง 0.50 General functions.
###### et seq.,

(a) Enforcement of all Federal statutes affecting civil rights, including those pertaining to elections and voting, public accommodations, public facilities, school desegregation, employment (including 42 U.S.C. 2000e-(6)), housing, abortion, sterilization, credit, and constitutional and civil rights of Indians arising under 25 U.S.C. 1301and of institutionalized persons, and authorization of litigation in such enforcement, including criminal prosecutions and civil actions and proceedings on behalf of the Government and appellate proceedings in all such cases. Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing sentence, the responsibility for the enforcement of the following described provisions of the U.S. Code is assigned to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division:

(1) Sections 591 through 593 and sections 595 through 612 of title 18, U.S. Code, relating to elections and political activities;

(2) Sections 241, 242, and 594 of title 18, and sections 1973i and 1973j of title 42, U.S. Code, insofar as they relate to voting and election matters not involving discrimination or intimidation on grounds of race or color, and section 245(b)(1) of title 18, U.S. Code, insofar as it relates to matters not involving discrimination or intimidation on grounds of race, color, religion, or national origin;

(3) Section 245(b)(3) of title 18, U.S. Code, pertaining to forcible interference with persons engaged in business during a riot or civil disorder; and

(4) Sections 241 through 256 of title 2, U.S. Code (Federal Corrupt Practices Act).

(b) Requesting and reviewing investigations arising from reports or complaints of public officials or private citizens with respect to matters affecting civil rights.

(c) Conferring with individuals and groups who call upon the Department in connection with civil rights matters, advising such individuals and groups thereon, and initiating action appropriate thereto.

(d) Coordination within the Department of Justice of all matters affecting civil rights.

(e) Consultation with and assistance to other Federal departments and agencies and State and local agencies on matters affecting civil rights.

(f) Research on civil rights matters, and the making of recommendations to the Attorney General as to proposed policies and legislation relating thereto.

(g) Representation of Federal officials in private litigation arising under 42 U.S.C. 2000d or under other statutes pertaining to civil rights.

(h) Administration of sections 3(c) and 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1973a(c), 1973c).

(i) Upon request, assisting, as appropriate, the Commission on Civil Rights or other similar Federal bodies in carrying out research and formulating recommendations.

(j) Administration of section 105 of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 (50 U.S.C. App. 1989b).

(k) Upon request, certifications under 18 U.S.C. 245.

(l) Enforcement and administration of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Public Law 101-336.

(m) Community education, enforcement, and investigatory activities under section 102 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, as amended.

(n) Upon request, certification under 18 U.S.C. 249, relating to hate crimes.
