
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart K - Criminal Division
##### ยง 0.55 General functions.

The following functions are assigned to and shall be conducted, handled, or supervised by, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division:

(a) Prosecutions for Federal crimes not otherwise specifically assigned.

(b) Cases involving criminal frauds against the United States except cases assigned to the Antitrust Division by ยง 0.40(a) involving conspiracy to defraud the Federal Government by violation of the antitrust laws, and tax fraud cases assigned to the Tax Division by subpart N of this part.

(c) All criminal and civil litigation under the Controlled Substances Act, 84 Stat. 1242, and the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act, 84 Stat. 1285 (titles II and III of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970).

(d) Civil or criminal forfeiture or civil penalty actions (including petitions for remission or mitigation of forfeitures and civil penalties, offers in compromise, and related proceedings) under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, the Contraband Transportation Act, the Copyrights Act, the customs laws (except those assigned to the Civil Division which involve sections 592, 704(i)(2) or 734(i)(2) of the Tariff Act of 1930), the Export Control Act of 1949, the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, the Federal Seed Act, the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, the Hours of Service Act, the Animal Welfare Act, the Immigration and Nationality Act (except civil penalty actions and petitions and offers related thereto), the neutrality laws, laws relating to cigarettes, liquor, narcotics and dangerous drugs, other controlled substances, gambling, war materials, pre-Colombian artifacts, coinage, and firearms, locomotive inspection (45 U.S.C. 22, 23, 28-34), the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, prison-made goods (18 U.S.C. 1761-1762), the Safety Appliance Act, standard barrels (15 U.S.C. 231-242), the Sugar Act of 1948, and the Twenty-Eight Hour Law.

(e) Subject to the provisions of subpart Y of this part, consideration, acceptance, or rejection of offers in compromise of criminal and tax liability under the laws relating to liquor, narcotics and dangerous drugs, gambling, and firearms, in cases in which the criminal liability remains unresolved.

(f) All criminal litigation and related investigations and inquiries pursuant to all the power and authority of the Attorney General to enforce the Immigration and Nationality Act and all other laws relating to the immigration and naturalization of aliens; all advice to the Attorney General with respect to the exercise of his parole authority under 8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5) concerning aliens who are excludable under 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(23), (28), (29), or (33); and all civil litigation with respect to the individuals identified in 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(33), 1251(a)(19).

(g) Coordination of enforcement activities directed against organized crime and racketeering.
