
# Title 28 - Judicial Administration
## Chapter I - Department of Justice
### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
#### Subpart K - Criminal Division
##### ยง 0.55 General functions.
###### et seq.

(h) Enforcement of the Act of January 2, 1951, 64 Stat. 1134, as amended by the Gambling Devices Act of 1962, 76 Stat. 1075, 15 U.S.C. 1171, including registration thereunder. (See also 28 CFR 3.2)

(i) All civil proceedings seeking exclusively equitable relief against Criminal Division activities including criminal investigations, prosecutions, and other criminal justice activities (including without limitation, applications for writs of coram nobis and writs of habeas corpus not challenging exclusion, deportation, or detention under the immigration laws), except that any proceeding may be conducted, handled, or supervised by the Assistant Attorney General for National Security or another Division by agreement between the head of such Division and the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division.

(j) International extradition proceedings.

(k) Relation of military to civil authority with respect to criminal matters affecting both.

(l) All criminal matters arising under the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 519).

(m) Enforcement of the following-described provisions of the United States Code-

(1) Sections 591 through 593 and sections 595 through 612 of title 18, U.S. Code, relating to elections and political activities;

(2) Sections 241, 242, and 594 of title 18, and sections 1973i and 1973j of title 42, U.S. Code, insofar as they relate to voting and election matters not involving discrimination or intimidation on grounds of race or color, and section 245(b)(1) of title 18 U.S. Code, insofar as it relates to matters not involving discrimination or intimidation on grounds of race, color, religion, or national origin;

(3) Section 245(b)(3) of title 18, U.S. Code, pertaining to forcible interference with persons engaged in business during a riot or civil disorder; and

(4) Sections 241 through 256 of title 2, U.S. Code (Federal Corrupt Practices Act). (See ยง 0.50(a).)

(n) Civil actions arising under 39 U.S.C. 3010, 3011 (Postal Reorganization Act).

(o) Resolving questions that arise as to Federal prisoners held in custody by Federal officers or in Federal prisons, commitments of mentally defective defendants and juvenile delinquents, validity and construction of sentences, probation, and parole.

(p) Supervision of matters arising under the Escape and Rescue Act (18 U.S.C. 751, 752), the Fugitive Felon Act (18 U.S.C. 1072, 1073), and the Obstruction of Justice Statute (18 U.S.C. 1503).

(q) Supervision of matters arising under the Bail Reform Act of 1966 (28 U.S.C. 3041-3143, 3146-3152, 3568).

(r) Supervision of matters arising under the Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act of 1966 (18 U.S.C. 4251-4255; 28 U.S.C. 2901-2906; 42 U.S.C. 3411-3426, 3441, 3442).

(s) Civil proceedings in which the United States is the plaintiff filed under the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, 18 U.S.C. 1963-1968.

(t) Upon request, certifications under 18 U.S.C. 245.

(u) Exercise of the authority vested in the Attorney General under 10 U.S.C. 374(b)(2)(E) to approve the use of military equipment by Department of Defense personnel to provide transportation and base of operations support in connection with a civilian law enforcement operation.
