
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 411 - STANDARDS TO PREVENT, DETECT, AND RESPOND TO SEXUAL ABUSE AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT INVOLVING UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN
##### Subpart F - Reporting
###### ยง 411.53 UC access to outside confidential support services.

(a) Care provider facilities must utilize available community resources and services to provide valuable expertise and support in the areas of crisis intervention, counseling, investigation, and the prosecution of sexual abuse perpetrators to most appropriately address a sexual abuse victim's needs. The care provider facility must maintain or attempt to enter into memoranda of understanding or other agreements with community service providers, or if local providers are not available, with national organizations that provide legal advocacy and confidential emotional support services for immigrant victims of crime. The care provider facility must maintain copies of its agreements or documentation showing attempts to enter into such agreements.

(b) Care provider facilities must have written policies and procedures to include outside agencies in the care provider facility's sexual abuse and sexual harassment prevention and intervention protocols, if such resources are available.

(c) Care provider facilities must make available to UC information about local organizations that can assist UCs who are victims of sexual abuse and sexual harassment, including mailing addresses and telephone numbers (including toll-free hotline numbers where available). If no such local organizations exist, the care provider facility must make available the same information about national organizations. The care provider facility must enable reasonable communication between UCs and these organizations and agencies in a confidential manner and inform UCs, prior to giving them access, of the extent to which such communications will be confidential.
