
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 411 - STANDARDS TO PREVENT, DETECT, AND RESPOND TO SEXUAL ABUSE AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT INVOLVING UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN
##### Subpart E - Assessment for Risk of Sexual Victimization and Abusiveness
###### ยง 411.42 Use of assessment information.

(a) The care provider facility must use the information from the risk assessment under ยง 411.41 to inform assignment of UCs to housing, education, recreation, and other activities and services. The care provider facility must make individualized determinations about how to ensure the safety and health of each UC.

(b) Care provider facilities may not place UCs on one-on-one supervision as a result of the assessment completed in ยง 411.41 unless there are exigent circumstances that require one-on-one supervision to keep the UC, other UCs, or staff safe, and then, only until an alternative means of keeping all residents and staff safe can be arranged. During any period of one-on-one supervision, a UC may not be denied any required services, including but not limited to daily large-muscle exercise, required educational programming, and social services, as reasonable under the circumstances. UCs on one-on-one supervision must receive daily visits from a medical practitioner or mental health care clinician as necessary unless the medical practitioner or mental health care clinician determines daily visits are not required. The medical practitioner or mental health care clinician, however, must continue to meet with the UC on a regular basis while the UC is on one-on-one supervision.

(c) When making assessment and housing assignments for a transgender or intersex UCs, the care provider facility must consider the UC's gender self-identification and an assessment of the effects of a housing assignment on the UC's health and safety. The care provider facility must consult a medical or mental health professional as soon as practicable on this assessment. The care provider facility must not base housing assignment decisions of transgender or intersex UCs solely on the identity documents or physical anatomy of the UC; a UC's self-identification of his/her gender and self-assessment of safety needs must always be taken into consideration as well. An identity document may include but is not limited to official U.S. and foreign government documentation, birth certificates, and other official documentation stating the UC's sex. The care provider facility's housing assignment of a transgender or intersex UCs must be consistent with the safety and security considerations of the care provider facility, State and local licensing standards, and housing and programming assignments of each transgender or intersex UCs must be regularly reassessed to review any threats to safety experienced by the UC.
