
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 411 - STANDARDS TO PREVENT, DETECT, AND RESPOND TO SEXUAL ABUSE AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT INVOLVING UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN
##### Subpart G - Official Response Following a UC Report
###### ยง 411.63 Reporting to other care provider facilities and DHS.

(a) Upon receiving an allegation that a UC was sexually abused or sexually harassed while at another care provider facility, the care provider facility whose staff received the allegation must immediately notify ORR, but no later than 24 hours after receiving the allegation. ORR will then notify the care provider facility where the alleged abuse or harassment occurred.

(b) The care provider facility must document that it provided such notification to ORR.

(c) The care provider facility that receives such notification, to the extent that such care provider facility is covered by this part, must ensure that the allegation is referred for investigation in accordance with these standards.

(d) Upon receiving an allegation that a UC was sexually abused or sexually harassed while in DHS custody, the care provider facility whose staff received the allegation must immediately notify ORR, but no later than 24 hours after receiving an allegation. ORR will then report the allegation to DHS in accordance with DHS policies and procedures.

(e) The care provider facility must document that it provided such notification to ORR.
