
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 411 - STANDARDS TO PREVENT, DETECT, AND RESPOND TO SEXUAL ABUSE AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT INVOLVING UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN
##### Subpart J - Medical and Mental Health Care
###### ยง 411.93 Ongoing medical and mental health care for sexual abuse and sexual harassment victims and abusers.

(a) Care provider facilities must offer ongoing medical and mental health evaluations and treatment to all UCs who are victimized by sexual abuse or sexual harassment while in ORR care and custody.

(b) The evaluation and treatment of such victims must include, as appropriate, follow-up services, treatment plans, and, when necessary, referrals for continued care following their transfer to or placement in other care provider facilities or their release from ORR care and custody.

(c) The care provider facility must provide victims with medical and mental health services consistent with the community level of care.

(d) Care provider facilities must ensure that female UC victims of sexual abuse by a male abuser while in ORR care and custody are offered pregnancy tests, as necessary. If pregnancy results from an instance of sexual abuse, care provider facility must ensure that the victim receives timely and comprehensive information about all lawful pregnancy-related medical services and timely access to all lawful pregnancy-related medical services. In order for UCs to make informed decisions regarding medical services, including, as appropriate, medical services provided under ยง 411.92, care provider facilities should engage the UC in discussions with family members or attorneys of record in accordance with ยง 411.55 to the extent practicable and follow appropriate State laws regarding the age of consent for medical procedures.

(e) Care provider facilities must ensure that UC victims of sexual abuse that occurred while in ORR care and custody are offered tests for sexually transmitted infections as medically appropriate.

(f) Care provider facilities must ensure that UC victims are provided access to treatment services regardless of whether the victim names the abuser or cooperates with any investigation arising out of the incident.

(g) The care provider facility must attempt to conduct a mental health evaluation of all known UC-on-UC abusers within seventy-two (72) hours of learning of such abuse and/or abuse history and offer treatment when deemed appropriate by mental health practitioners.
