
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 411 - STANDARDS TO PREVENT, DETECT, AND RESPOND TO SEXUAL ABUSE AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT INVOLVING UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN
##### Subpart L - Audits and Corrective Action
###### ยง 411.111 Frequency and scope of audits.
####### e.g.,

(h) The auditor must retain and preserve all documentation (including,videotapes and interview notes) relied upon in making audit determinations. Such documentation must be provided to ORR upon request.

(i) The auditor must interview a representative sample of UCs and staff, and the care provider facility must make space available suitable for such interviews.

(j) The auditor must review a sampling of any available video footage and other electronically available data that may be relevant to the provisions being audited.

(k) The auditor must be permitted to conduct private interviews with UCs.

(l) UCs must be permitted to send confidential information or correspondence to the auditor.

(m) Auditors must attempt to solicit input from community-based or victim advocates who may have insight into relevant conditions in the care provider facility.

(n) All sensitive and confidential information provided to auditors will include appropriate designations and limitations on further dissemination. Auditors must follow appropriate procedures for handling and safeguarding such information.

(o) Care provider facilities bear the affirmative burden on demonstrating compliance with the standards to the auditor.
