
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 411 - STANDARDS TO PREVENT, DETECT, AND RESPOND TO SEXUAL ABUSE AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT INVOLVING UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN
##### Subpart L - Audits and Corrective Action
###### ยง 411.111 Frequency and scope of audits.

(a) Within three years of February 22, 2016, each care provider facility that houses UCs will be audited at least once; and during each three-year period thereafter.

(b) ORR may expedite an audit if it believes that a particular care provider facility may be experiencing problems related to sexual abuse or sexual harassment.

(c) ORR must develop and issue an instrument that is coordinated with the HHS Office of the Inspector General that will provide guidance on the conduct and contents of the audit.

(d) The auditor must review all relevant ORR-wide policies, procedures, reports, internal and external audits, and licensing requirements for each care provider facility type.

(e) The audits must review, at a minimum, a sampling of relevant documents and other records and other information for the most recent one-year period.

(f) The auditor must have access to, and must observe, all areas of the audited care provider facilities.

(g) ORR and the care provider facility must provide the auditor with the relevant documentation to complete a thorough audit of the care provider facility.
