
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 411 - STANDARDS TO PREVENT, DETECT, AND RESPOND TO SEXUAL ABUSE AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT INVOLVING UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN
##### Subpart L - Audits and Corrective Action
###### ยง 411.113 Audit contents and findings.

(a) Each audit must include a certification by the auditor that no conflict of interest exists with respect to his or her ability to conduct an audit of the care provider facility under review.

(b) Audit reports must state whether care provider facility policies and procedures comply with all standards.

(c) For each of these standards, the auditor must determine whether the audited care provider facility reaches one of the following findings: Exceeds Standard (substantially exceeds requirement of standard); Meets Standard (substantial compliance; complies in all material ways with the standard for the relevant review period); Does Not Meet Standard (requires corrective action). The audit summary must indicate, among other things, the number of provisions the care provider facility achieved at each grade level.

(d) Audit reports must describe the methodology, sampling sizes, and basis for the auditor's conclusions with regard to each standard provision for each audited care provider facility and must include recommendations for any required correction action.

(e) Auditors must redact any personally identifiable information of UCs or staff information from their reports but must provide such information to ORR upon request.

(f) ORR must ensure that aggregated data on final audit reports is published on ORR's Web site, or is otherwise made readily available to the public. ORR must redact any sensitive or confidential information prior to providing such reports publicly.
