
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Appendix A to Part 73 - List of Some Offenses for Which Disciplinary Action May Be Taken
###### Concerning Efficiency of Operations in General.

A.1. Engaging in wasteful actions or behavior in the performance of assigned duties; conducting non-Government business during official work hours; or participating in a strike (18 U.S.C. 1918), work stoppage, slowdown, sickout, or other similar action.

2. Absence without leave, failure to adhere to the rules and regulations for requesting and obtaining leave, or improper use of sick leave.

3. Deliberate insubordination or refusal to carry out lawful orders or assignments given.

4. Disruptive behavior, such as:

a. Inflicting or threatening or attempting to inflict bodily injury on another (except for necessary defense of self or others) while on the job or on Federal premises.

b. Discourtesy, disreputable conduct, or use of insulting, abusive or obscene language to or about other individuals while on the job.

5. Sexual harassment of employees or members of the public.

6. Failure to observe precautions for safety, such as failure to use safety equipment when it is provided or ignoring signs, posted rules or regulations, or written or verbal safety instructions.

7. Unauthorized use, possession, or distribution of alcoholic beverages (5 U.S.C. 7352) or controlled substances (e.g., hallucinogens, such as LSD; stimulants, such as cocaine and amphetamines; sedatives, such as barbiturates; narcotics and other drugs or substances, such as hashish and other cannabis substances).

8. Unauthorized gambling; or canvassing, soliciting, or peddling on Government premises.

9. Failure to carry or show proper identification or credentials as required by competent authority; misuse of identification cards or investigative or identification credentials or badges.

10. Failure to disclose (i.e., report) information, when such disclosure is not specifically prohibited by law or Executive Order, that involves (a) violation of law, rule, or regulation, (b) mismanagement or gross waste of funds or abuse of authority, or (c) posing a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety; failure to cooperate in an official Department inquiry.

11. Failure to pay just debts, including taxes to and loans from governmental sources.

12. Deceit or interference in a Civil Service examination (18 U.S.C. 1917) or in connection with a Government personnel action.

13. Fraud or false statements in a Government matter. (18 U.S.C. 1001 through 1003.)

14. Supervisory failure to initiate disciplinary or corrective action when the facts are known and disciplinary or corrective action is warranted.

15. Employment of a member of an organization that advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government. (5 U.S.C. 7311; 50 U.S.C. 784.)
