
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Appendix A to Part 73 - List of Some Offenses for Which Disciplinary Action May Be Taken
###### Concerning Government Funds, Property, Documents, and Records.

B.1. Actual or attempted embezzlement or theft of Government or personal money or property either directly or through use of Government documents, automated equipment, or other means; actual or attempted embezzlement or theft of the money or property of another person in the possession of an employee by reason of his or her employment. (18 U.S.C. 641 and 654.)

2. Failure to account for public money. (18 U.S.C. 643.)

3. Deliberate falsifying of official time and attendance records; improper use of official travel or forging, counterfeiting, or otherwise falsifying official Government travel records or documents. (18 U.S.C. 508.)

4. False record entries or false reports of money or securities. (18 U.S.C. 2073.)

5. Loss or misuse of or damage to Government property or endangering persons or Government property through carelessness or by willful malicious conduct.

6. Mutilating, destroying, or concealing public records. (18 U.S.C. 2071.)

7. Misuse of penalty (postal) privilege. (18 U.S.C. 1719.)

8. Failure to safeguard administratively confidential, financial, and trade secrets information.

9. Unauthorized use of documents presented or used to procure the payment of money from or by the Government. (18 U.S.C. 285.)

10. Unauthorized use of a Government vehicle; serious or repeated violations of traffic regulations while driving a Government vehicle or a vehicle rented or leased for official Government purposes; reckless driving or improper operation of any Government owned, rented, or leased motor vehicle. (31 U.S.C. 1349[b].)

11. Violations of the Privacy Act, including:

a. Willful prohibited disclosure of individually identifiable information in violation of 5 U.S.C. 552a.

b. Willfully maintaining a system of records without meeting the notice requirements of the Privacy Act as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a.

12. Violation of regulations concerning the release of classified information, confidential, or security and investigative information. (18 U.S.C. 798 and 1905; 21 U.S.C. 331j; and 50 U.S.C. 783.)
