
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter V - Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice
#### Subchapter A - Rules of Practice
##### PART 501 - SUBPOENAS, DEPOSITIONS, AND OATHS
###### ยง 501.5 Depositions.
####### Application to take.

(a)(1) An application to take a deposition must be in writing setting forth the reason why the deposition should be taken, the name and address of the witness, the matters concerning which it is expected the witness will testify, and the time and place proposed for the taking of the deposition, together with the name and address of the person before whom it is desired that the deposition be taken. If the deposition is being offered in connection with a hearing or examination, the application for deposition must be made to the Commission at least 15 days prior to the proposed date of such hearing or examination.

(2) Application to take a deposition may be made during a hearing or examination, or subsequent to a hearing or examination, only where it is shown for good cause that the facts as set forth in the application to take the deposition were not within the knowledge of the person signing the application prior to the time of the hearing or examination.

(3) The Commission or its representative will, upon receipt of the application and a showing of good cause, make and cause to be served upon the parties an order which will specify the name of the witness whose deposition is to be taken, the time, the place, and where practicable the designation of the officer before whom the witness is to testify. The officer may or may not be the one specified in the application. The order will be served upon all parties at least 10 days prior to the date of the taking of the deposition.
