
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter V - Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice
#### Subchapter A - Rules of Practice
##### PART 502 - PUBLIC INFORMATION-FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
###### ยง 502.1 Organization and authority - Foreign Claims Settlement Commission.

(a) The Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States ("the Commission") is an independent agency of the Federal Government created by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1954 (68 Stat. 1279) effective July 1, 1954. The Commission was transferred to the Department of Justice as an independent agency within that department as of October 1, 1980, under the terms of Public Law 96-209, approved March 14, 1980 (94 Stat. 96, 22 U.S.C. 1622a). Its duties and authority are defined in the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as amended (64 Stat. 12, 22 U.S.C. 1621-1645o) and the War Claims Act of 1948 (62 Stat. 1240, 50 U.S.C. App. 2001-2017p).

(b) The Commission has jurisdiction to determine the validity and amount of claims of United States nationals against foreign governments for compensation for losses and injuries sustained by those nationals, pursuant to programs authorized under either of the cited Acts. Funds for payment of claims are derived from international settlement agreements or through liquidation of foreign assets in the United States by the Department of Justice or Treasury, or from public funds when provided by the Congress.

(c) The Chair and the two part-time members of the Commission are appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate to serve for 3-year terms of office as provided in 22 U.S.C. 1622c(c).

(d) All functions of the Commission are vested in the Chair with respect to the internal management of the affairs of the Commission, including but not limited to:

(1) The appointment of Commission employees;

(2) The direction of Commission employees and the supervision of their official duties;

(3) The distribution of business among employees and organizational units within the Commission;

(4) The preparation of budget estimates; and

(5) The use and expenditures of Commission funds appropriated for expenses of administration.

(e) Requests for records must be made in writing by mail or presented in person to the Administrative Officer, Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, Washington, DC 20579.

(f) The offices of the Commission are located at 600 E Street NW (Bicentennial Building), Room 6002, Washington, DC.
