
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter V - Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice
#### Subchapter A - Rules of Practice
##### PART 502 - PUBLIC INFORMATION-FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
###### ยง 502.14 Fees for services.
####### news

(2) Requests from representatives of news media-Where a request seeks disclosure of records to a representative of the news media, the requester shall be charged only for the actual duplication cost of the records and only to the extent that the number of duplications exceeds 100 pages; provided, however, that the request must reasonably describe the records sought, and it must appear that the records are for use by the requester in such person's capacity as a news media representative. "Representative of the news media" refers to any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The termmeans information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. A "freelance" journalist not actually employed by a news organization shall be eligible for inclusion under this category if the person can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication by a news organization.

(3) Requests from educational and non-commercial scientific institutions-Where a request seeks disclosure of records to an educational or non-commercial scientific institution, the requester shall be charged only for the actual duplication cost of the records and only to the extent that the number of duplications exceeds 100 pages; provided, however, that the request must reasonably describe the records sought and it must appear that the records are to be used by the requester in furtherance of its educational or non-commercial scientific research programs. "Educational institution" refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, or an institution of undergraduate, graduate, professional or vocational education, which operates a program or programs of scholarly research. "Non-commercial scientific institution" refers to an institution that is not operated on a "commercial" basis, within the meaning of paragraph (d)(1) of this section and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.

(4) All other requests-Where a request seeks disclosure of records to a person or entity other than one coming within paragraphs (d) (1), (2) and (3) of this section, the requester shall be charged the full cost of search and duplication. However, the first two hours of search time and the first 100 pages of duplication shall be furnished without charge.
