
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73a - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION SUPPLEMENT
##### Subpart B - Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 73a.735-201 Control activity employees formerly associated with organizations subject to FDA regulation.

(a) For a period of 1 year after FDA appointment, or appointment to the Food and Drug Division, Office of the General Counsel, a control activity employee who was employed in a regulated organization within 1 year before FDA employment shall not participate in any regulatory action before FDA that involves the former employer organization. Exceptions may be authorized only under paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) A control activity employee who was previously employed in a regulated organization shall not participate in any regulatory action before FDA in which the employee had participated personally and substantially in behalf of the former employer organization, e.g., drug investigations/applications, food additive petitions, matters dealing with compliance in areas of radiation-producing products or medical devices. Exceptions may be authorized only under paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) Employment in a regulated organization includes contractual relationships, e.g., attorneys who may have represented an FDA-regulated firm or industry or an association of such firms and individuals who may have served a firm, industry or association in a consultant capacity.

(d) Within 30 days after assignment to a control activity position, an employee shall submit to his supervisor detailed information concerning former industry employers, and dates and substance of involvement in such regulatory matters as may be subject to the prohibition in paragraph (b) of this action.

(e) The Commissioner may grant individual exceptions to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section whenever he determines that strict application would not be in the best interests of the United States. A memorandum of any exception granted shall be filed for public inspection in the Public Records and Documents Center, Food and Drug Administration, Room 4-68, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Md. 20857, within 10 days after the Commissioner's decision. The memorandum shall include the employee's name, title, grade, summary of official duties, prior pertinent industry involvement, a brief description of the specific regulatory action in which the employee has been permitted to participate, and a statement explaining why such strict application of the subpart would not be in the best interests of the United States.
