
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter V - Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice
#### Subchapter A - Rules of Practice
##### PART 503 - PRIVACY ACT AND GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE REGULATIONS
###### Subpart B - Government in the Sunshine Regulations
####### ยง 503.26 Procedures for closing of meetings.

(a) The closing of a meeting will occur when:

(1) A majority of the membership of the Commission votes to take that action. A separate vote of the Commission members will be taken with respect to each Commission meeting, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public pursuant to ยง 503.24, or with respect to any information which is proposed withheld under ยง 503.24. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning that series of meetings, so long as each meeting in the series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in the series. The vote of each Commission member participating in the voting will be recorded and no proxies will be allowed.

(2) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a portion of a meeting requests that the Commission close that portion to the public for any of the reasons referred to in ยง 503.24(e), (f), or (g), the Commission, upon request of any one of its Commission members, will take a recorded vote, whether to close that portion of the meeting.

(b) Within one day of any vote taken, the Commission will make publicly available a written copy of the voting reflecting the vote of each member on the question and a full written explanation of its action closing the entire or portion of the meeting together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation.

(c) The Commission will announce the time, place and subject matter of the meeting at least eight days before the meeting.

(d) For every closed meeting, before the meeting is closed, the Commission's Chair will publicly certify that the meeting may be closed to the public, and will state each relevant closure provision. A copy of the certification, together with a statement setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, will be retained by the Commission.
