
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter V - Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice
#### Subchapter A - Rules of Practice
##### PART 503 - PRIVACY ACT AND GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE REGULATIONS
###### Subpart B - Government in the Sunshine Regulations
####### ยง 503.28 Record of closed meetings, or closed portion of a meeting.

(a) The Commission will maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each closed meeting or closed portion of a meeting, except that in the case of a meeting or portion of a meeting closed to the public pursuant to ยง 503.24(d), (h), or (j), the Commission will maintain either a transcript or recording, or a detailed set of minutes.

(b) Any minutes so maintained will fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any rollcall vote. All documents considered in connection with any action will be identified in the minutes.

(c) The Commission will promptly make available to the public, in its offices, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes, of the discussion of any item on the agenda of a closed meeting, or closed portion of a meeting, except for the item or items of discussion which the Commission determines to contain information which may be withheld under ยง 503.24. Copies of the transcript or minutes, or a transcription of the recording, disclosing the identity of each speaker, will be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.

(d) The Commission will maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each closed meeting or closed portion of a meeting for a period of two years after the date of the closed meeting or closed portion of a meeting.

(e) All actions required or permitted by this section to be undertaken by the Commission will be by or under the authority of the Chair of the Commission.
