
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter V - Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice
#### Subchapter C - Receipt, Administration, and Payment of Claims Under the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as Amended, and Related Acts
##### PART 509 - FILING OF CLAIMS AND PROCEDURES THEREFOR
###### ยง 509.5 Procedure for determination of claims.
####### http://www.usdoj.gov/fcsc

(d) It will be the policy of the Commission to post on a bulletin board and on its World Wide Web site (), any information of general interest to claimants before the Commission.

(e) When the Proposed Decision denies a claim in whole or in part, the claimant may file notice of objection to the denial within 15 days of delivery of the decision. If the claimant wishes to appear at an oral hearing before the Commission to present his or her objection, the claimant must request the oral hearing at the time of submission of his or her objection, stating the reasons for objection, and may request a hearing on the claim, specifying whether for the taking of evidence or for oral argument on the legal issues which are the subject of the objection.

(f) Copies of objections to or requests for hearings on Proposed Decisions will be available for public inspection at the Commission's offices.

(g) Upon the expiration of 30 days after delivery to the claimant or claimant's attorney, if no objection under this section has in the meantime been filed, a staff Proposed Decision, upon approval by the Commission, will become the Commission's final determination and decision on the claim. A Proposed Decision issued by the Commission will become final 30 days after delivery to the claimant or the claimant's attorney without further order or decision by the Commission.

(h) If an objection has in the meantime been filed, but no hearing requested, the Commission may, after due consideration thereof:

(1) Issue a Final Decision affirming or modifying its Proposed Decision,

(2) Issue an Amended Proposed Decision, or

(3) On its own motion order hearing thereon, indicating whether for the taking of evidence on specified questions or for the hearing of oral arguments.

(i) After the conclusion of a hearing, upon the expiration of any time allowed by the Commission for further submissions, the Commission may proceed to issue a Final Decision in determination of the claim.

(j)(1) In case an individual claimant dies prior to the issuance of the Final Decision, that person's legal representative will be substituted as party claimant. However, upon failure of a representative to qualify for substitution, the Commission may issue its decision in the name of the estate of the deceased and, in case of an award, certify the award in the same manner to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment, if the payment of the award is provided for by statute.

(2) Notice of the Commission's action under this paragraph will be forwarded to the claimant's attorney of record, or if the claimant is not represented by an attorney, the notice will be addressed to the estate of the claimant at the last known place of residence.
