
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter V - Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice
#### Subchapter C - Receipt, Administration, and Payment of Claims Under the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as Amended, and Related Acts
##### PART 509 - FILING OF CLAIMS AND PROCEDURES THEREFOR
###### ยง 509.5 Procedure for determination of claims.

(a) The Commission may on its own motion order a hearing upon any claim, specifying the questions to which the hearing shall be limited.

(b) Without previous hearing, the Commission or a designated member of the staff may issue a Proposed Decision in determination of a claim. This Proposed Decision will set forth findings of fact and conclusions of law on the relevant elements of the claim, to the extent that evidence and information relevant to such elements is before the Commission. The claimant will have the burden of proof in submitting evidence and information sufficient to establish the elements necessary for a determination of the validity and amount of his or her claim.

(c) The Proposed Decision will be delivered to the claimant or the claimant's attorney of record in person or by mail. Delivery by mail will be deemed completed 5 days after the mailing of the Proposed Decision addressed to the last known address of the claimant or the claimant's attorney of record. A copy of the Proposed Decision will be available for public inspection at the offices of the Commission, except in cases where public disclosure of the names of claimants is barred by statute.
