
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter V - Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice
#### Subchapter C - Receipt, Administration, and Payment of Claims Under the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as Amended, and Related Acts
##### PART 509 - FILING OF CLAIMS AND PROCEDURES THEREFOR
###### ยง 509.6 Hearings.
####### Presentation of objections to Proposed Decisions.

(1)(i) Objections should focus either on the presentation of new evidence, or on the presentation of arguments demonstrating that, in the claimant's view, the Commission erred in considering the evidence previously submitted. Restatements of facts, evidence or materials already established in the record should be avoided.

(ii) The Chief Counsel of the Commission or designated staff attorney will first introduce the objecting claimant and any witnesses to the Commission, and will then present a brief summary of the case, together with reasons supporting the decision as issued.

(iii) The objecting claimant and all witnesses will be sworn.

(iv) The objecting claimant, or the claimant's attorney, will then present the claimant's objections to the Commission, specifically setting forth the basis for the claimant's disagreement with the Proposed Decision, and the reasons supporting the claimant's contention that a more favorable decision should be rendered. Claimants will normally be limited to fifteen (15) minutes for their presentation of objections, but may request additional time if needed.

(v) Following presentation of the claimant's objection, the Chief Counsel or designated staff attorney will be allotted an equivalent amount of time to question the claimant and the claimant's witnesses with respect to the testimony and other evidence presented in support of the objection.

(vi) The objecting claimant or the claimant's attorney, and the Chief Counsel or designated staff attorney, will then be allotted up to five (5) minutes each for follow-up or rebuttal.

(vii) The Chair and Commissioners may direct questions to the objecting claimant and the claimant's attorney, and to the Chief Counsel or designated staff attorney, at any time during the proceedings described in the foregoing.

(viii) The foregoing provisions may be modified at the discretion of the Chair as circumstances may require.

(ix) At the conclusion, the Chair will inform the participants that the Commission will take the matter under advisement, and that a written Final Decision disposing of the objection will issue in due course.
