
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73b - DEBARMENT OR SUSPENSION OF FORMER EMPLOYEES
##### ยง 73b.5 Hearings.

(a) Hearings shall be stenographically recorded and transcribed and the testimony of witnesses shall be taken under oath or affirmation. Hearings will be closed unless an open hearing is requested by the respondent, except that if classified information or protected information of third parties is likely to be adduced at the hearing, it will remain closed. If either party to the proceeding fails to appear at the hearing, after due notice thereof has been sent to him/her, he/she shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the administrative law judge may make a decision on the basis of the record before him/her at that time.

(b) The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity are not controlling in hearings under this part. However, the administrative law judge shall exclude evidence which is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.

(c) Depositions for use at a hearing may, with the consent of the parties in writing or the written approval of the administrative law judge be taken by either the Assistant General Counsel or the respondent or their duly authorized representatives. Depositions may be taken upon oral or written interrogatories. There shall be at least 10 days written notice to the other party. The requirement of a 10-day written notice may be waived by the parties in writing. When a deposition is taken upon written interrogatories, any cross-examination shall be upon written interrogatories. Copies of such written interrogatories shall be served upon the other party with the notice, and copies of any written cross-interrogation shall be mailed or delivered to the opposing party at least 5 days before the date of taking the depositions, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise. Expenses in the reporting of depositions shall be borne by the party at whose instance the deposition is taken.
