
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 606 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
##### ยง 606.60 Communications.

(a) The Foundation shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.

(1) The Foundation shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the Foundation.

(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the Foundation shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.

(ii) The Foundation need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.

(2) Where the Foundation communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunications devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.

(b) The Foundation shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.

(c) The Foundation shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.

(d) This section does not require the Foundation to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where Foundation personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Foundation has the initial burden of establishing that compliance with ยง 606.60 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Foundation Director or his or her designee after considering all Foundation resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Foundation shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
