
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 606 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
##### ยง 606.70 Complaint procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Foundation.

(b) The Foundation shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).

(c) The Director, Office of Equal Opportunity Programs (OEOP), shall coordinate implementation of this section.

(d) Persons wishing to submit complaints should submit complete complaints (see ยง 606.03) to the Office of Equal Opportunity Programs, National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22230. In accordance with the procedures outlined below, the Foundation will accept all complete complaints and will either undertake to investigate them if they are within the jurisdiction of the Foundation and submitted within 180 days of the alleged acts of discrimination or in the case of complaints not within the jurisdiction of the Foundation, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity. Complete complaints submitted after the 180 day time limit may also be acted upon at the discretion of the Foundation if good cause for the delay in submission is found.

(e) The Foundation shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or a facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.

(f) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint, the Director, Office of Equal Opportunity Programs (OEOP), or his or her designee or delegate, will investigate the complaint and shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing-

(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(3) A notice of a right to appeal to the Director of the Foundation.

(g)(1) A complainant may appeal findings of fact, conclusions of law, or remedies to the Director of the Foundation. Such appeals must be in writing and must state fully the basis for the appeal, proposed alternative findings of fact, conclusions of law, or remedies. They must be sent (as evidenced by an appropriate postmark or other satisfactory evidence) within 90 days after the date of receipt from the Foundation of the letter described in paragraph (f) of this section. The Foundation may extend this time for good cause.

(2) The Director shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 30 days of the receipt of the appeal. If the Director determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, the Director shall have 30 days from the date such additional information is received from the complainant to make a determination on the appeal.

(h) The time limits for sending a letter to the complainant in paragraph (f) and for deciding an appeal in paragraph (g)(2) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
