
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 617 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM NSF
##### ยง 617.12 Compliance procedure.

(a) NSF may enforce this part by either termination of a recipient's financial asistance from NSF for the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Act or this part or refusal to grant further financial assistance under the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Act or this part. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge. Therefore, cases settled in the mediation process or before a hearing will not involve termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from NSF.

(b) NSF may also enforce this part by any other means authorized by law, including but not limited to:

(1) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations by this part.

(2) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State, or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or this part.

(c) NSF will limit any termination or refusal to grant further financial assistance to the particular recipient and the particular program or activity found to be in violation of the Act. NSF will not base any part of a termination or refusal on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not receive Federal financial assistance for NSF.

(d) NSF will not begin any hearing under paragraph (a) until the Director has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with this part and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained.

(e) NSF will not terminate or refuse to grant financial assistance until thirty days have elapsed after the Director has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of the Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the program or activity involved. The Director will file a report whenever any action is taken under paragraph (f) of this section.
