
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 650 - PATENTS
##### § 650.13 Exercise of march-in rights.

(a) The procedures established by this section supplement those prescribed by § 401.6 of the implementing regulation for the Bayh-Dole Act (37 CFR § 401.6) and apply to all march-in rights held by NSF including those resulting from funding agreements not covered by the Bayh-Dole Act.

(b) Petitions requesting that the NSF exercise a march-in right should be addressed to the NSF Patent Assistant. Such petitions should:

(1) Identify the patent or patent application involved and the relevant fields of use of the invention;

(2) State the grounds for the proposed march-in;

(3) Supply evidence that one or more of the four conditions creating a march-in right (lack of practical application, unsatisfied health or safety needs, unmet requirements for public use, or failure to prefer United States industry) is present; and

(4) Explain what action by the Foundation is necessary to correct that condition.

(c) If evidence received from a petitioner or from the Foundation's administration of the Patent Rights clause indicates that one or more of the four conditions creating a march-in right might exist, the NSF Patent Assistant will informally review the matter as provided in § 401.6(b) of the implementing regulation. If that informal review indicates that one or more of the four conditions creating a march-in right probably exists, the Patent Assistant will initiate a formal march-in proceeding by issuing a written notice to the patent holder. That notice will provide all the information required by § 401.6(c) of the implementing regulation. The patent holder may submit information and argument in opposition to the proposed march-in in person, in writing, or through a representative.

(d) If the NSF Patent Assistant determines that a genuine dispute over material facts exists, he or she will identify the disputed facts and notify the NSF General Counsel. The General Counsel will create a cross-directorate fact-finding panel, which will establish its own fact-finding procedures within the requirements of § 401.6(e) of the implementing regulation based on the dimensions of the particular dispute. The Patent Assistant will serve as secretary to the panel, but will not take part in its deliberations. Written findings of facts will be submitted to the General Counsel, sent by certified mail to the patent holder, and made available to all other interested parties.

(e) The NSF General Counsel will determine whether and how the Foundation should exercise a march-in right as provided in § 401.6(g) of the implementing regulation.
