
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 670 - CONSERVATION OF ANTARCTIC ANIMALS AND PLANTS
##### Subpart F - Antarctic Specially Protected Areas
###### ยง 670.29 Designation of Antarctic specially protected areas, specially managed areas, and historic sites and monuments.

(a) The following areas have been designated by the Antarctic Treaty Parties for special protection and are hereby designated as Antarctic specially protected areas (ASPA). The Antarctic Conservation Act of 1978, as amended, prohibits, unless authorized by a permit, any person from entering or engaging in activities within an ASPA. Detailed maps and descriptions of the sites and complete management plans can be obtained from the National Science Foundation, Office of Polar Programs, National Science Foundation, Room 755, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22230.

(b) The following areas have been designated by the Antarctic Treaty Parties for special management and have been designated as Antarctic specially managed areas (ASMA). Detailed maps and descriptions of the sites and complete management plans can be obtained from the National Science Foundation, Office of Polar Programs, Room 755, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22230.

(c) The following areas have been designated by the Antarctic Treaty Parties as historic sites or monuments (HSM). The Antarctic Conservation Act of 1978, as amended, prohibits any damage, removal or destruction of a historic site or monument listed pursuant to Annex V to the Protocol. Descriptions of the sites or monuments can be obtained from the National Science Foundation, Office of Polar Programs, Room 755, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22230.
