
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 672 - ENFORCEMENT AND HEARING PROCEDURES
##### ยง 672.3 Powers and duties of the Director; Presiding Official; Office of Polar Programs.
###### Office of Polar Programs.

(f)The Office of Polar Programs (OPP) manages and operates the national program in Antarctica, including administration of the Antarctic Conservation Act (ACA) permit system. OPP is responsible for investigating alleged violations of the "prohibited acts" section of the ACA and alleged noncompliance with ACA permits. OPP will act as the official complainant in all proceedings under the ACA governed by these rules. OPP may delegate all or part of its investigatory duties to other appropriate NSF employees, other qualified federal employees, or consultants. OPP will prepare complaints with the assistance of designated prosecuting attorneys within NSF's Office of the General Counsel, other qualified federal attorneys, or other appropriate legal representative selected jointly by OPP and OGC. The designated prosecuting attorney will represent OPP in all proceedings governed by these rules.

(g) The Office of Polar Programs, acting on behalf of the Director, may designate qualified individuals as enforcement officers empowered to execute all of the law enforcement functions set forth in section 10 of the ACA, 16 U.S.C. 2409, as well as any other appropriate actions ancillary to those statutory duties. OPP will provide each enforcement officer with official enforcement credentials for identification purposes and use during execution of official duties.

(h) The Office of the General Counsel, with the concurrence of the Office of Polar Programs, may refer appropriate cases to the Department of Justice for possible prosecution of criminal violations of the Antarctic Conservation Act.
