
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 672 - ENFORCEMENT AND HEARING PROCEDURES
##### ยง 672.3 Powers and duties of the Director; Presiding Official; Office of Polar Programs.
###### Presiding Officer.

(c)The Director may designate one or more Presiding Officers to perform the functions described below. The Presiding Officers shall be attorneys who are permanent or temporary employees of the Foundation or some other Federal Agency and may perform other duties compatible with their authority as hearing officers. Administrative Law Judges may perform the functions of Presiding Officers. The Presiding Officer shall have performed no prosecutorial or investigatory functions in connection with any matter related to the hearing.

(d) The Presiding Officer shall conduct a fair and impartial proceeding, assure that the facts are fully elicited, adjudicate all issues, and avoid delay. The Presiding Officer shall have authority to:

(1) Conduct administrative hearings under these rules of practice;

(2) Rule upon motions, requests, and offers of proof, dispose of procedural requests, and issue all necessary orders;

(3) Administer oaths and affirmations and take affidavits;

(4) Examine witnesses and receive documentary or other evidence;

(5) For good cause, upon motion or sua sponte, order a party, or an officer or agent thereof, to produce testimony, documents, or other nonprivileged evidence, and failing the production thereof without good cause being shown, draw adverse inferences against that party;

(6) Admit or exclude evidence;

(7) Hear and decide questions of facts, law or discretion;

(8) Require parties to attend conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues, or the expedition of facts, law or discretion;

(9) Issue subpoenas authorized by the Act; and

(10) Take all actions necessary for the maintenance of order and for the efficient, fair and impartial adjudication of issues arising in proceedings governed by these rules.
