
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 672 - ENFORCEMENT AND HEARING PROCEDURES
##### ยง 672.5 Filing and service of rulings, orders, and decisions.
###### Ex parte discussion of proceeding.

(e)At no time after the issuance of the complaint shall the Presiding Officer, or any other person who is likely to advise these officials in the decision on the case, discuss ex parte the merits of the proceeding with any interested person outside the Agency, with any Agency staff member who performs a prosecutorial or investigative function in the proceeding or other factually related proceeding, or with any representative of such person. Any ex parte memorandum or other communication addressed to the Presiding Officer during the pendency of the proceeding and relating to the merits thereof, by or on behalf of any party, shall be regarded as argument made in the proceeding and shall be served upon all other parties. The Presiding Officer shall give the other parties an opportunity to reply.

(f) Subject to the provisions of law restricting the public disclosure of confidential information, any person may, during Agency business hours, inspect and copy any document filed in any proceeding. Such documents shall be made available by the Hearing Clerk.

(g) The person seeking copies of any documents filed in a proceeding shall bear the cost of duplication. Upon a formal request the Agency may waive this cost in appropriate cases.
