
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 672 - ENFORCEMENT AND HEARING PROCEDURES
##### ยง 672.12 Prehearing conference.
###### Other discovery.

(e)(1) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, further discovery shall be permitted only upon determination by the Presiding Officer that (i) such discovery will not in any way unreasonably delay the proceeding; (ii) the information to be obtained is not otherwise obtainable; and (iii) such information has significant probative value.

(2) The Presiding Officer shall order depositions upon oral questions only upon a showing of good cause and upon a finding that (i) the information sought cannot be obtained by alternative methods; or (ii) there is substantial reason to believe that relevant and probative evidence may otherwise not be preserved for presentation by a witness at the hearing.

(3) Any party may request further discovery by motion. Such a motion shall set forth (i) the circumstances warranting the taking of the discovery; (ii) the nature of the information expected to be discovered; and (iii) the proposed time and place where it will be taken. If the Presiding Officer determines that the motion should be granted, he shall issue an order granting discovery, with any qualifying conditions and terms.

(4) When the information sought to be obtained is within the control of one of the parties, failure to comply with an order issued pursuant to this paragraph may lead to (i) the inference that the information to be discovered would be adverse to the party from whom the information was sought; or (ii) the issuance of a default.
