
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VI - National Science Foundation
#### PART 681 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT REGULATIONS
##### Purpose, Definitions, and Basis for Liability
###### ยง 681.3 What is the basis for the imposition of civil penalties and assessments?
####### Statements.

(b)(1) Any person shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each statement if that person makes a written statement that the person knows or has reason to know-

(i) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or

(ii) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in such a statement; and

(iii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of this statement.

(2) A person will only be subject to a civil penalty under 681.3(b)(1) if the written statement made by the person contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of this statement.

(3) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.

(4) A statement shall be considered made to NSF when it is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision of a State, acting for or on behalf of NSF.

(c) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.

(d) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a false, fictitious, or fraudulent claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held liable for a civil penalty and assessment, where appropriate, under this section.

(e) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made payment, an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of persons.

(f) For claims or statements made on or after August 1, 2016, but before January 1, 2017, the maximum penalty which may be assessed under part 681 of the title is $10,781. For claims or statements made on or after January 1, 2017, the maximum penalty which may be assessed under part 681 of the title is the larger of:

(1) The amount for the previous calendar year, or

(2) An amount adjusted for inflation, calculated by multiplying the amount for the previous calendar year by the percentage by which the CPI-U for the month of October preceding the current calendar year exceeds the CPI-U for the month of October of the calendar year two years prior to the current calendar year, adding that amount to the amount for the previous calendar year, and rounding the total to the nearest dollar.

(g) Notice of the maximum penalty, which may be assessed under part 681 of this title for calendar years after 2016, will be published by NSF in theon an annual basis on or before January 15 of each calendar year.
