
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VII - Commission on Civil Rights
#### PART 702 - RULES ON HEARINGS, REPORTS, AND MEETINGS OF THE COMMISSION
##### Subpart A - Hearings and Reports
###### ยง 702.18 Commission reports.

(a) If a Commission report tends to defame, degrade, or incriminate any person, the report or relevant portions thereof shall be delivered to such person at least 30 days before the report is made public to allow such person to make a timely verified answer to the report. The Commission shall afford such person an opportunity to file with the Commission a verified answer to the report or relevant portions thereof not later than 20 days after service as provided by the regulations in this part.

(1) Such person shall be served with a copy of the report or relevant portions thereof, with an indication of the section(s) that the Commission has determined tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate such person, a copy of the Act, and a copy of the regulations in this part.

(2) The report or relevant portions thereof, the Act, and regulations in this part shall be served by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by leaving a copy thereof at the last known residence or business address or the agent of such person.

(3) The date of service for the purposes of this section shall be the day the material is delivered either by the post office or otherwise, to such person or the agent of such person or at the last known residence or business address of such person. The acknowledgement of the party served or the verified return of the one making service shall be proof of service except that when service is made by mail, the return post office receipt shall also constitute proof of same.

(b) If a person receiving a Commission report or relevant portions thereof under this part requests an extension of time from the Commission within seven days of service of such report, the Commission may, upon a showing of good cause, grant the person additional time within which to file a verified answer.

(c) A verified answer shall plainly and concisely state the facts and law constituting the person's reply or defense to the charges or allegations contained in the report.

(d) Such verified answer shall be published as an appendix to the report; however, the Commission may except from the answer such matter as it determines to be scandalous, prejudicial, or unnecessary.
