
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VII - Commission on Civil Rights
#### PART 702 - RULES ON HEARINGS, REPORTS, AND MEETINGS OF THE COMMISSION
##### Subpart B - Meetings
###### ยง 702.56 Records.

(a) The Commission shall promptly make available to the public in an easily accessible place at Commission headquarters the following materials:

(1) A copy of the certification by the General Counsel required by ยง 702.54(e)(1).

(2) A copy of all recorded votes required to be taken by these rules.

(3) A copy of all announcements published in thepursuant to this subpart.

(4) Transcripts, electronic recordings, and minutes of closed meetings determined not to contain items of discussion or information that may be withheld under ยง 702.53. Copies of such material will be furnished to any person at the actual cost of transcription or duplication.

(b)(1) Requests to review or obtain copies of records compiled under this Act, other than transcripts, electronic recordings, or minutes of a closed meeting, will be processed under the Freedom of Information Act and, where applicable, the Privacy Act regulations of the Commission (parts 704 and 705, respectively, of this title). Nothing in this subpart expands or limits the present rights of any person under the rules in this part with respect to such requests.

(2) Requests to review or obtain copies of transcripts, electronic recordings, or minutes of a closed meeting maintained under ยง 702.54(e) and not released under paragraph (a)(4) of this section shall be directed to the Staff Director who shall respond to such requests within ten (10) working days.

(c) The Commission shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of two years after such meeting or until one year after the conclusion of any agency proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later.
