
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VII - Commission on Civil Rights
#### PART 703 - OPERATIONS AND FUNCTIONS OF STATE ADVISORY COMMITTEES
##### ยง 703.8 Meetings.

(a) Meetings of a Committee shall be convened by the designated Commission employee or subject to his or her approval by the Chairperson or a majority of the Advisory Committee members. The agenda for such Committee or subcommittee meeting shall be approved by the designated Commission employee.

(b) A quorum shall consist of one-half or more of the members of the Committee, or five members, whichever is the lesser, except that with respect to the conduct of fact-finding meetings as authorized in paragraph (e) of this section, a quorum shall consist of three members.

(c) Notice of all meetings of an Advisory Committee shall be given to the public.

(1) Notice shall be published in theat least 15 days prior to the meetings, provided that in emergencies such requirement may be waived.

(2) Notice of meetings shall be provided to the public by press releases and other appropriate means.

(3) Each notice shall contain a statement of the purpose of the meeting, a summary of the agenda, and the date, time, and location of such meeting.

(d) Except as provided for in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, all meetings of Advisory Committees or subcommittees shall be open to the public.

(1) The Chief of the Regional Programs Coordination Unit may authorize a Committee or subcommittee to hold a meeting closed to the public if he or she determines that the closing of such meeting is in the public interest provided that prior to authorizing the holding of a closed meeting the Chief of the Regional Programs Coordination Unit has requested and received the opinion of the General Counsel with respect to whether the meeting may be closed under one or more of the exemptions provided in the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b(c).

(2) In the event that any meeting or portion thereof is closed to the public, the Committee shall publish, at least annually, in summary form a report of the activities conducted in meetings not open to the public.

(e) Advisory Committees and subcommittees may hold fact-finding meetings for the purpose of inviting the attendance of and soliciting information and views from government officials and private persons respecting subject matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee or subcommittee.

(f) Any person may submit a written statement at any business or fact-finding meeting of an Advisory Committee or subcommittee.

(g) At the discretion of the designated Commission employee or his or her designee, any person may make an oral presentation at any business or fact-finding meeting, provided that such presentation will not defame, degrade, or incriminate any other person as prohibited by the Act.
