
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VII - Commission on Civil Rights
#### PART 704 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE AND COMMUNICATIONS
##### ยง 704.1 Material available pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552.
###### Time limitations.

(3)(i) Time limitations for agency response to a request for records established by the regulations in this part shall begin when the request is recorded pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section. A written request pursuant to FOIA but sent to an office of the Commission other than the Office of the General Counsel shall be date stamped, initialed, and redirected immediately to the Office of the General Counsel. The required period for agency determination shall begin when it is received by the Office of the General Counsel in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.

(ii) In unusual circumstances, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), the General Counsel may, in the case of initial determinations under the regulations in this part, extend the 10 working day time limit in which the agency is required to make its determination notification. Such extension shall be communicated in writing to the requesting party setting forth with particularity the reasons for such extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be transmitted. Such extensions may not exceed 10 working days for any request and may only be used to the extent necessary to properly process a particular request. Such extension is permissible only where there is a demonstrated need:

(A) To search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the Office of the General Counsel;

(B) To search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records that are demanded in a single request; or

(C) For consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the same agency having substantial subject matter interest therein.
