
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VII - Commission on Civil Rights
#### PART 704 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE AND COMMUNICATIONS
##### ยง 704.1 Material available pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552.
###### Agency determinations.

(2)(i) Responses to all requests pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) shall be made by the General Counsel in writing to the requester within 10 working days after receipt by the General Counsel of such request except as specifically exempted under paragraphs (d)(1) (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this section, and shall state:

(A) Whether and to what extent the Commission will comply with the request;

(B) The probable availability of the records or that the records may be furnished with deletions or that records will be denied as exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) through (9);

(C) The estimated costs, determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, including waiver or reduction of fee as appropriate and any deposit or prepayment requirement; and

(D) When records are to be provided, the time and place at which records or copies will be available determined in accordance with the terms of the request and with paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Such response shall be termed a determination notice.

(ii) In the case of denial of requests in whole or part the determination notice shall state:

(A) Specifically what records are being denied;

(B) The reasons for such denials;

(C) The specific statutory exemption(s) upon which such denial is based;

(D) The names and titles or positions of every person responsible for the denial of such request; and

(E) The right of appeal to the Staff Director of the Commission and procedures for such appeal as provided under paragraph (g) of this section.

(iii) Each request received by the Office of the General Counsel for records pursuant to the regulations in this part shall be recorded immediately. The record of each request shall be kept current, stating the date and time the request is received, the name and address of the person making the request, any amendments to such request, the nature of the records requested, the action taken regarding the request, including waiver of fees, extensions of time pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), and appeals. The date and subject of any letters pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section or agency determinations pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the date(s) any records are subsequently furnished, and the payment requested and received.
