
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VII - Commission on Civil Rights
#### PART 704 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE AND COMMUNICATIONS
##### ยง 704.1 Material available pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552.
###### Administrative appeals.

(g)(1) These procedures apply whenever a requester is denied records under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.

(2) Parties may appeal decisions under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section within 90 days of the date of such decision by filing a written request for review addressed to the Staff Director, U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, 624 9th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20425, by certified mail, including a copy of the written denial, and may include a statement of the circumstances, reasons or arguments advanced in support of disclosure. Review will be made by the Staff Director on the basis of the written record.

(3) The decision on review of any appeal filed under this section shall be in writing over the signature of the Staff Director will be promptly communicated to the person requesting review and will constitute the final action of the Commission.

(4) Determinations of appeals filed under this section shall be made within 20 working days after the receipt of such appeal. If, on appeal, denial of records is in whole or part upheld, the Staff Director shall notify the persons making such request of the provisions for judicial review of that determination under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6).

(5) An extension of time may be granted under this section pursuant to criteria established in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) (A) through (C) of this section, except that such extension together with any extension, which may have been granted pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, may not exceed a total of 10 working days.
