
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VII - Commission on Civil Rights
#### PART 705 - MATERIALS AVAILABLE PURSUANT TO 5 U.S.C. 552a
##### ยง 705.13 Exemptions.
###### Exemption (k)(6) of the Act.

(4)Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for promotion or appointment in the Federal service the disclosure of which would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process.

(b) Following are Commission systems of records that are partially exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (4), (5), and (6) and the reasons for such exemptions:

(1) Appeals, Grievances, and Complaints (staff)-Commission Project, CRC-001. Exempt partially under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). The reasons for possibly asserting the exemptions are to prevent subjects of investigation from frustrating the investigatory process, to prevent disclosure of investigative techniques, to maintain the ability to obtain necessary information, to fulfill commitments made to sources to protect their identities and the confidentiality of information and to avoid endangering these sources.

(2) Complaints, CRC-003-Exempt partially under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). The reasons for possibly asserting the exemptions are to prevent subjects of investigation from frustrating the investigatory process, to prevent disclosure of investigative techniques, to maintain the ability to obtain necessary information, to fulfill commitments made to sources to protect their identities and the confidentiality of information and to avoid endangering these sources.

(3) Commission projects, CRC-004-Partially exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). The reasons for asserting the exemptions are to prevent subjects of investigation from frustrating the investigatory process, to prevent disclosure of investigative techniques, to maintain the ability to obtain necessary information, to fulfill commitments made to sources to protect their identities and the confidentiality of information and to avoid endangering these sources.

(4) Other Employee Programs: EEO, Troubled Employee, and Upward Mobility, CRC-006-Partially exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4), (5), and (6). The reasons for asserting the exemptions are to maintain the ability to obtain candid and necessary information, to fulfill commitments made to sources to protect the confidentiality of information, to avoid endangering these sources and, primarily, to facilitate proper selection or continuance of the best applicants or persons for a given position.

(5) State Advisory Committees Projects, CRC-009-Partially exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). The reasons for possibly asserting the exemptions are to prevent subjects of investigation from frustrating the investigatory process, to prevent disclosure of investigative techniques, to maintain the ability to obtain necessary information, to fulfill commitments made to sources to protect their identities and the confidentiality of information and to avoid endangering these sources.
