
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter VII - Commission on Civil Rights
#### PART 707 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY U.S. COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS
##### ยง 707.8 Physical access.
###### New purchases, leases, or other arrangements.

(c)(1) Any building or facility acquired after March 28, 1990, whether by purchase, lease (other than lease renewal), or any other arrangement, shall be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.

(2) Nothing in this paragraph requires the Agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where Agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Agency has the burden of proving that compliance with this paragraph would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Staff Director or his or her designee after considering all Agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.

(d) New construction and alterations. Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the Agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities in accordance with the requirements imposed by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 4151 through 4157.
