
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 75.102 Exceptions.
####### www.whitehouse.gov/omb

(a) With the exception of subpart F of this part, OMB may allow exceptions for classes of Federal awards or non-Federal entities subject to the requirements of this part when exceptions are not prohibited by statute. However, in the interest of maximum uniformity, exceptions from the requirements of this part will be permitted only in unusual circumstances. Exceptions for classes of Federal awards or non-Federal entities will be published on the OMB Web site at.

(b) Exceptions on a case-by-case basis for individual non-Federal entities may be authorized by the HHS awarding agency or cognizant agency for indirect costs, except where otherwise required by law or where OMB or other approval is expressly required by this part.

(c) The HHS awarding agency may apply more restrictive requirements to a class of Federal awards or non-Federal entities when approved by OMB, or when required by Federal statutes or regulations, except for the requirements in subpart F of this part. An HHS awarding agency may apply less restrictive requirements when making fixed amount awards as defined in subpart A of this part, except for those requirements imposed by statute or in subpart F of this part.

(d) On a case-by-case basis, OMB will approve new strategies for Federal awards when proposed by the HHS awarding agency in accordance with OMB guidance (such as M-13-17) to develop additional evidence relevant to addressing important policy challenges or to promote cost-effectiveness in and across Federal programs. Proposals may draw on the innovative program designs discussed in M-13-17 to expand or improve the use of effective practices in delivering Federal financial assistance while also encouraging innovation in service delivery. Proposals submitted to OMB in accordance with M-13-17 may include requests to waive requirements other than those in subpart F of this part.
