
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 75.103 Authorities.

This part is issued under the following authorities.

(a) Subpart B of this part through subpart D of this part are authorized under 31 U.S.C. 503 (the Chief Financial Officers Act, Functions of the Deputy Director for Management), 31 U.S.C. 1111 (Improving Economy and Efficiency of the United States Government), 41 U.S.C. 1101-1131 (the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act), Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1970, and Executive Order 11541 Prescribing the Duties of the Office of Management and Budget and the Domestic Policy Council in the Executive Office of the President, the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507), as well as The Federal Program Information Act (Public Law 95-220 and Public Law 98-169, as amended, codified at 31 U.S.C. 6101-6106).

(b) Subpart E of this part is authorized under the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921, as amended; the Budget and Accounting Procedures Act of 1950, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1101-1125); the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 (31 U.S.C. 503-504); Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1970; and Executive Order No. 11541 Prescribing the Duties of the Office of Management and Budget and the Domestic Policy Council in the Executive Office of the President.

(c) Subpart F of this part is authorized under the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507).
