
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 1100 - STATEMENT FOR THE GUIDANCE OF THE PUBLIC - ORGANIZATION, PROCEDURE AND AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
###### ยง 1100.2 Organization.
####### et seq.

The National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities was established by the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, 20 U.S.C. 951The Foundation is composed of the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Institute of Museum and Library Services, and the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities. The Institute of Museum and Library Services became a part of the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities pursuant to the Museum and Library Services Act, as amended (20 U.S.C. 9102). Each Endowment is headed by a Chairman and has an advisory national council composed of 26 presidential appointees. The Institute of Museum and Library Services is headed by a Director and has a National Museum and Library Services Board composed of 20 presidential appointees, the Director, and IMLS's Deputy Directors for the Offices of Library Services, and Museum Services. The Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities, comprised of Executive branch officials and appointees of the legislative branch, is authorized to make agreements to indemnify against loss or damage for certain exhibitions and advise on arts and humanities matters. The National Endowment for the Humanities, the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities, and the Institute of Museum and Library Services no longer follow the regulations under this part. The procedures for disclosing records of the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities are available at 45 CFR part 1171. The procedures for disclosing records of the Institute of Museum and Library Services are available at 45 CFR part 1184.
