
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart C - Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
###### ยง 75.203 Notices of funding opportunities.
####### Summary Information in Notices of Funding Opportunities.

(a)The HHS awarding agency must display the following information posted on the OMB-designated government-wide Web site for finding and applying for Federal financial assistance, in a location preceding the full text of the announcement:

(1) HHS Awarding Agency Name;

(2) Funding Opportunity Title;

(3) Announcement Type (whether the funding opportunity is the initial announcement of this funding opportunity or a modification of a previously announced opportunity);

(4) Funding Opportunity Number (required, if applicable). If the HHS awarding agency has assigned or will assign a number to the funding opportunity announcement, this number must be provided;

(5) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number(s);

(6) Key Dates. Key dates include due dates for applications or Executive Order 12372 submissions, as well as for any letters of intent or pre-applications. For any announcement issued before a program's application materials are available, key dates also include the date on which those materials will be released; and any other additional information, as deemed applicable by the relevant HHS awarding agency.

(b) The HHS awarding agency must generally make all funding opportunities available for application for at least 60 calendar days. The HHS awarding agency may make a determination to have a less than 60 calendar day availability period but no funding opportunity should be available for less than 30 calendar days unless exigent circumstances require as determined by the HHS awarding agency head or delegate.
