
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 1110 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS
###### ยง 1110.5 Illustrative applications.

The following examples will illustrate the application of the foregoing provisions to some of the activities for which Federal financial assistance is provided by the Endowments. (In all cases the discrimination prohibited is discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin prohibited by title VI of the Act and this part, as a condition of the receipt of Federal financial assistance.)

(a) In a research, training, or other grant to a university for activities to be conducted in a graduate school, discrimination in the admission and treatment of students in the graduate school is prohibited, and the prohibition extends to the entire university.

(b) In cases of Federal financial assistance to elementary or secondary schools, discrimination by the recipient school district in any of its elementary or secondary schools, or by the recipient private institution, in the admission of students, or in the treatment of its students in any aspect of the educational process, is prohibited. In this and the following illustration the prohibition of discrimination in the treatment of students or other trainees includes the prohibition of discrimination among the students or trainees in the availability or use of any academic, dormitory, eating, recreational, or other facilities of the grantee or other recipient.

(c) In a training grant to a nonacademic institution, discrimination is prohibited in the selection of individuals to be trained and in their treatment by the grantee during their training. In a research or demonstration grant to such an institution, discrimination is prohibited with respect to any educational activity, any provision of medical or other services and any financial aid to individuals incident to the program.

(d) Where Federal financial assistance is provided to assist in the presentation of artistic and cultural productions to the public, assurances will be required that such productions will not be presented before any audience which has been selected on a discriminatory basis.

(e) A recipient may not take action that is calculated to bring about indirectly what this part forbids it to accomplish directly. Thus, a State, in selecting projects to be supported through a State agency, may not base its selections on criteria which have the effect of defeating or substantially impairing accomplishment of the objectives of the Federal financial assistance as respects individuals of a particular race, color, or national origin.

(f) In some situations even though past discriminatory practices have been abandoned, the consequences of such practices continue to impede the full availability of a benefit. If the efforts required of the applicant or recipient under ยง 1110.6(d) to provide information as to the availability of the program or activity, and the rights of beneficiaries under this regulation, have failed to overcome these consequences, it will become necessary for such applicant or recipient to take additional steps to make the benefits fully available to racial and nationality groups previously subjected to discrimination. This action might take the form, for example of special arrangements for obtaining referrals or making selections which will insure that groups previously subjected to discrimination are adequately served.

(g) Even though an applicant or recipient has never used discriminatory policies, the services and benefits of the program or activity it administers may not in fact be equally available to some racial or nationality groups. In such circumstances an applicant or recipient may properly give special consideration to race, color, or national origin to make the benefits of its program more widely available to such groups, not then being adequately served. For example, where a university is not adequately serving members of a particular racial or nationality group, it may establish special recruitment policies to make its program better known and more readily available to such group, and take other steps to provide that group with more adequate service.
