
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart C - Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
###### ยง 75.206 Standard application requirements, including forms for applying for HHS financial assistance, and state plans.
####### Forms for applying for HHS financial assistance.

(c)HHS awarding agencies should use the Standard Form 424 (SF-424 Application for Federal Assistance) series (or its successor) and its program narrative whenever possible. Alternative mechanisms may be used for formula grant programs which do not require applicants to apply for funds on a project basis.

(1) Applicants shall use the SF-424 series or those forms and instructions prescribed by the HHS awarding agency.

(2) For Federal programs covered by Executive Order 12372, as amended by Executive Order 12416, the applicant shall complete the appropriate sections of the SF-424 indicating whether the application was subject to review by the State Single Point of Contact (SPOC). The name and address of the SPOC for a particular State can be obtained from the HHS awarding agency or the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. The SPOC shall advise the applicant whether the program for which application is made has been selected by that State for review. (See also 45 CFR part 100.)

(3) HHS awarding agencies that do not use the SF-424 series will indicate on the application form they prescribe whether the application is subject to review by the State under Executive Order 12372.

(4) This section does not apply to applications for subawards.

(5) Except where otherwise noted, or granted by HHS deviation, HHS awarding agencies shall direct applicants to apply for HHS financial assistance through Grants.gov, an OMB-designated Web site for Find and Apply.
