
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1148 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
###### ยง 1148.3 How can I make a FOIA request?
####### Description of records sought.,https://www.arts.gov/foia-contacts

(c)Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Arts Endowment personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may help the Arts Endowment identify the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the Arts Endowment's designated FOIA contact or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they seek and to receive assistance in describing the records. Contact information for the Arts Endowment's designated FOIA contact and FOIA Public Liaison is available on the Arts Endowment's FOIA website (), or can be obtained by calling (202) 682-54184. If after receiving a request, the Arts Endowment determines that it does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Arts Endowment will inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the Arts Endowment's designated FOIA contact or FOIA Public Liaison. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Arts Endowment's response to the request may be delayed.
