
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1148 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
###### ยง 1148.5 When will the Arts Endowment respond to my request?
####### Expedited processing.

(e)Consistent with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E)(i), the Arts Endowment may grant expedited processing under certain circumstances:

(1) The Arts Endowment will process requests and appeals on an expedited basis whenever it is determined that they involve:

(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or

(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity, if made by a person who is primarily engaged in disseminating information.

(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. Requests based on paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section must be submitted to the Arts Endowment's Office of General Counsel. When making a request for expedited processing of an administrative appeal, the request should be submitted to the Arts Endowment's FOIA Appeals Office per ยง 1148.8(a).

(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. For example, under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, a requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person whose primary professional activity or occupation is information dissemination, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the government activity involved in the request-one that extends beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an "urgency to inform" the public on the topic. As a matter of administrative discretion, the Arts Endowment may waive the formal certification requirement.

(4) The Arts Endowment will notify the requester within 10 calendar days of the receipt of a request for expedited processing of its decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If expedited processing is granted, the request must be given priority, placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and must be processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, the Arts Endowment will act on any appeal of that decision expeditiously.
