
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1148 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
###### ยง 1148.10 How will fees be charged?
####### Searches.

(1)The following fee policies apply to searches:

(i) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. The Arts Endowment will charge search fees for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. The Arts Endowment may properly charge for time spent searching even if the Arts Endowment does not locate any responsive records or if the Arts Endowment determines that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.

(ii) For manual searches, the fee charged will be the salary rate or rates of the employee or employees conducting the search. For computer searches, the fee charged will be the actual direct cost of providing the service, including the salary rate or rates of the operator(s) or programmer(s) conducting the search. The salary rate is calculated as the particular employee's basic pay plus 16.1 percent. The Arts Endowment may charge fees even if the documents are determined to be exempt from disclosure or cannot be located.

(iii) The Arts Endowment will charge the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. The Arts Endowment will notify the requester of the costs associated with creating such a program, and the requester must agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.

(iv) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by the Arts Endowment at a Federal records center operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), the Arts Endowment will charge additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.
