
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1148 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
###### ยง 1148.10 How will fees be charged?
####### Restrictions on charging fees.

(d)The Arts Endowment will adhere to the following restrictions regarding fees it charges:

(1) When the Arts Endowment determines that a requester is an educational institution, non-commercial scientific institution, or representative of the news media, and the records are not sought for commercial use, it will not charge search fees.

(2) If the Arts Endowment fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits in which to respond to a request, it will not charge search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in paragraphs (d)(3) through (5) of this section.

(3) If the Arts Endowment has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply and the Arts Endowment provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional 10 working days.

(4) If the Arts Endowment has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, the Arts Endowment may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may charge duplication fees, if the following steps are taken:

(i) The Arts Endowment provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA; and

(ii) The Arts Endowment discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5. U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If this exception is satisfied, the Arts Endowment may charge all applicable fees incurred in the processing of the request.

(5) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.

(6) No search or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.

(7) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, the Arts Endowment will provide without charge:

(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and

(ii) The first two hours of search.

(8) No fee will be charged when the total fee, after deducting the 100 free pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first two hours of search, is equal to or less than $25.
