
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1149 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT REGULATIONS
###### Subpart F - Hearing Procedures
####### ยง 1149.32 Do you have a right to review documents?

(a) Yes. Once the ALJ issues a hearing notice, and upon written request to the reviewing official, you may:

(1) Review any relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint and upon which the findings and conclusions of the investigating official are based, unless such documents are subject to a privilege under Federal law. Upon payment of fees for duplication, you may obtain copies of such documents; and

(2) Obtain a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint. You may obtain exculpatory information even if it is contained in a document that would otherwise be privileged. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only that portion containing exculpatory information must be disclosed.

(b) The notice sent to the Attorney General from the reviewing official is not discoverable under any circumstances.

(c) If the reviewing official does not respond to your request within 20 days, you may file a motion to compel disclosure of the documents with the ALJ subject to the provisions of this section. Such a motion may only be filed with the ALJ following the filing of an answer.
