
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1150 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1150.6 What opportunity do I have to obtain a review of my debt within the Endowment?
######## Request for review.

(a)If you desire a review within the Endowment concerning the existence or amount of your debt, the proposed schedule for offset of Federal employee salary payments, or whether the debt is past due or legally enforceable, you must send such a request to the officer or employee of the Endowment designated in the Notice (see ยง 1150.5(c)(4)).

(1) Your request for review must carry your signature and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts and evidence that support your position. Your request for review should be accompanied by available evidence to support your contentions.

(2) Your request for review must be received by the designated officer or employee of the Endowment on or before the 60th day following the date of the Notice. Timely filing will stay the commencement of collection procedures. If you file a request for a review after the 60-day period provided for in this section, the Endowment will accept the request if you can show that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond your control or because you did not receive notice of the filing deadline (unless you had actual notice of the filing deadline).
