
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1150 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1150.12 How will the Endowment use credit reporting agencies to collect its claims?
######## et seq.

(3) Obtain satisfactory assurances from the credit reporting agency that it complies with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681) and other Federal laws governing the provision of credit information.

(c) At the time debt information is submitted to a credit reporting agency, the Endowment will provide a written statement to the reporting agency that all required actions have been taken. In addition, the Endowment will, thereafter, ensure that the credit reporting agency is promptly informed of any substantive change in the conditions or amount of the debt, and promptly verify or correct information relevant to the debt.

(d) If a debtor disputes the validity of the debt, the credit reporting agency will refer the matter to the appropriate Endowment official. The credit reporting agency will exclude the debt from its reports until the Endowment certifies in writing that the debt is valid.

(e) The Endowment may disclose to a commercial credit bureau information concerning a commercial debt, including the following:

(1) Information necessary to establish the name, address, and employer identification number of the commercial debtor;

(2) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and

(3) The program or pertinent activity under which the debt arose.
