
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1150 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1150.9 How can I resolve the Endowment's claim through a voluntary repayment agreement?

In response to a Notice of debt, you may propose to the Endowment that you be allowed to repay the debt through a voluntary repayment agreement in lieu of the Endowment taking other collection actions under this part.

(a) Your request to enter into a voluntary repayment agreement must:

(1) Be in writing;

(2) Admit the existence of the debt; and

(3) Either propose payment of the debt (together with interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs) in a lump sum, or set forth a proposed repayment schedule.

(b) The Endowment will collect claims in full or one lump sum whenever feasible. However, if you are unable to pay your debt in one lump sum, the Endowment may accept payment in regular installments that bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and your ability to pay.

(c) The Endowment will consider a request to enter into a voluntary repayment agreement in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards. The Chairperson may request additional information from you, including financial statements if you request to make payments in installments, in order to make a determination of whether to accept a voluntary repayment agreement. It is within the Chairperson's discretion to accept a repayment agreement instead of proceeding with other collection actions under this part, and to set the necessary terms of any voluntary repayment agreement. No repayment agreement will be binding on the Endowment unless it is in writing and signed by both you and the Chairperson. At the Endowment's option, you may be required to enter into a confess-judgment note or bond of indemnity with surety as part of an agreement to make payments in installments. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any reduction or compromise of a claim will be governed by 31 U.S.C. 3711.
