
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1150 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
###### Subpart B - Salary Offset
####### ยง 1150.23 How will the Endowment coordinate salary offsets with other agencies?
######## Responsibilities of the Endowment as the paying agency.

(b)(1) Complete claim. When the Endowment receives a certified claim from a creditor agency (under the creditor agency's regulations adopted under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K), deductions should be scheduled to begin within three officially established pay intervals. Before deductions can begin, the employee will receive a written notice from the Endowment including:

(i) A statement that the Endowment has received a certified claim from the creditor agency;

(ii) The amount of the claim;

(iii) The date salary offset deductions will begin; and

(iv) The amount of such deductions.

(2) Incomplete claim. When the Endowment receives an incomplete certification of debt from a creditor agency, the Endowment will return the claim with a notice that the creditor agency must comply with the procedures required under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and must properly certify a claim to the Endowment before the Endowment will take action to collect from the employee's current pay account.

(3) The Endowment is not authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.

(4) Employees who transfer from the Endowment to another paying agency. If, after the creditor agency has submitted the claim to the Endowment, the employee transfers from the Endowment to a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, the Endowment will certify the total amount collected on the debt and notify the employee and the creditor agency in writing. The notification to the creditor agency will include information on the employee's transfer.
