
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1150 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS
###### Subpart C - Tax Refund Offset
####### ยง 1150.31 What are the Endowment's procedures for collecting debts by tax refund offset?

(a) The Chairperson will be the point of contact with the Treasury for administrative matters regarding the offset program.

(b) The Endowment will ensure that the procedures prescribed by the Treasury are followed in developing information about past-due debts and submitting the debts to the Treasury.

(c) The Endowment will submit to the Treasury a notification of a taxpayer's liability for past-due legally enforceable debt. This notification will contain the following:

(1) The name and taxpayer identification number of the debtor;

(2) The amount of the past-due and legally enforceable debt;

(3) The date on which the original debt became past due; and

(4) A statement certifying that, with respect to each debt reported, all of the requirements of ยง 1150.30(b) have been satisfied.

(d) For purposes of this section, notice that collection of the debt is affected by a bankruptcy proceeding involving the debtor will bar referral of the debt to the Treasury.

(e) The Endowment shall promptly notify the Treasury to correct data when it:

(1) Determines that an error has been made with respect to a debt that has been referred;

(2) Receives or credits a payment on the debt; or

(3) Receives notice that the person owing the debt has filed for bankruptcy under Title 11 of the United States Code or has been adjudicated bankrupt and the debt has been discharged.

(f) When advising debtors of an intent to refer a debt to the Treasury for offset, the Endowment will also advise debtors of remedial actions available to defer the offset or prevent it from taking place.
