
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1159 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### ยง 1159.4 How will the public receive notification of the Endowment's systems of records?

(a) From time to time, the Endowment shall review its systems of records in theand publish, if necessary, any amendments to those systems of records. Such publication shall not be made for those systems of records maintained by other agencies while in the temporary custody of the Endowment.

(b) At least 30 days prior to publication of information under paragraph (a) of this section, the Endowment shall publish in thea notice of its intention to establish any new routine uses of any of its systems of records, thereby providing the public an opportunity to comment on such uses. This notice published by the Endowment shall contain the following:

(1) The name of the system of records for which the routine use is to be established;

(2) The authority for the system;

(3) The purpose for which the record is to be maintained;

(4) The proposed routine use(s);

(5) The purpose of the routine use(s); and

(6) The categories of recipients of such use.

(c) Any request for additions to the routine uses of Endowment systems should be sent to the Office of the General Counsel (see ยง 1159.3 of this part).

(d) Any individual who wishes to know whether an Endowment system contains a record pertaining to him or her should write to the Office of the General Counsel (see ยง 1159.3 of this part). Such individuals may also call the Office of the General Counsel at (202) 682-5418 on business days, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., to schedule an appointment to make an inquiry in person. In either case, inquiries should be presented in writing and should specifically identify the Endowment systems involved. The Endowment will attempt to respond to an inquiry as to whether a record exists within 10 business days of receiving the inquiry.
