
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter B - National Endowment for the Arts
##### PART 1159 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### ยง 1159.8 How can I acquire access to Endowment records pertaining to me?

The following procedures apply to records that are contained in an Endowment system:

(a) You may request review of records pertaining to you by writing to the Office of the General Counsel (see ยง 1159.3 of this part). You may also call the Office of the General Counsel at (202) 682-5418 on business days, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., to schedule an appointment to make such a request in person. In either case, your request should be presented in writing and should specifically identify the Endowment systems involved.

(b) Access to the record, or to any other information pertaining to you that is contained in the system, shall be provided if the identification requirements of ยง 1159.9 of this part are satisfied and the record is otherwise determined to be releasable under the Privacy Act and these regulations. The Endowment shall provide you an opportunity to have a copy made of any such record about you. Only one copy of each requested record will be supplied, based on the fee schedule in ยง 1159.12 of this part.

(c) The Endowment will comply promptly with requests made in person at scheduled appointments, if the requirements of this section are met and the records sought are immediately available. The Endowment will acknowledge mailed requests, or personal requests for documents that are not immediately available, within 10 business days, and the information requested will be provided promptly thereafter.

(d) If you make your request in person at a scheduled appointment, you may, upon your request, be accompanied by a person of your choice to review your record. The Endowment may require that you furnish a written statement authorizing discussion of your record in the accompanying person's presence. A record may be disclosed to a representative chosen by you upon your proper written consent.

(e) Medical or psychological records pertaining to you shall be disclosed to you unless, in the judgment of the Endowment, access to such records might have an adverse effect upon you. When such determination has been made, the Endowment may refuse to disclose such information directly to you. The Endowment will, however, disclose this information to a licensed physician designated by you in writing.
