
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart D - Post Federal Award Requirements
###### Standards for Financial and Program Management
####### § 75.308 Revision of budget and program plans.
######## Federal share

(a) The approved budget for the Federal award summarizes the financial aspects of the project or program as approved during the Federal award process. It may include either the Federal and non-Federal share (see § 75.2) or only the Federal share, depending upon HHS awarding agency requirements. It must be related to performance for program evaluation purposes whenever appropriate.

(b) Recipients are required to report deviations from budget or project scope or objective, and request prior approvals from HHS awarding agencies for budget and program plan revisions, in accordance with this section.

(c)(1) For non-construction Federal awards, recipients must request prior approvals from HHS awarding agencies for one or more of the following program or budget-related reasons:

(i) Change in the scope or the objective of the project or program (even if there is no associated budget revision requiring prior written approval).

(ii) Change in a key person specified in the application or the Federal award.

(iii) The disengagement from the project for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in time devoted to the project, by the approved project director or principal investigator.

(iv) The inclusion, unless waived by the HHS awarding agency, of costs that require prior approval in accordance with subpart E of this part, or appendix IX of this part, or 48 CFR part 31, as applicable.

(v) The transfer of funds budgeted for participant support costs as defined in § 75.2 to other categories of expense.

(vi) Unless described in the application and funded in the approved Federal awards, the subawarding, transferring or contracting out of any work under a Federal award, including fixed amount subawards as described in § 75.353. This provision does not apply to the acquisition of supplies, material, equipment or general support services.

(vii) Changes in the approved cost-sharing or matching provided by the non-Federal entity.

(viii) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project.

(ix) The inclusion of research patient care costs in research awards made for the performance of research work.

(x) The provision of subawards by a pass-through entity on fixed amounts up to the Simplified Acquisition Threshold, provided that the subawards meet the requirements for fixed amount awards in § 75.201. See § 75.353.

(xi) The recipient wishes to dispose of, replace, or encumber title to real property, equipment, or intangible property that are acquired or improved with a Federal award. See §§ 75.318, 75.320, 75.322, and 75.323.

(2) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless an exception has been approved by OMB. See also §§ 75.102 and 75.407.

(d) Except for requirements listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the HHS awarding agencies are authorized, at their option, to waive prior written approvals required by paragraph (c) this section. Such waivers may include authorizing recipients to do any one or more of the following:
