
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart D - Post Federal Award Requirements
###### Standards for Financial and Program Management
####### ยง 75.308 Revision of budget and program plans.
######## i.e.,

(4) For Federal awards that support research, unless the HHS awarding agency provides otherwise in the Federal award or in the HHS awarding agency's regulations, the prior approval requirements described in paragraph (d) are automatically waived (recipients need not obtain such prior approvals) unless one of the conditions included in paragraph (d)(2) applies.

(e) The HHS awarding agency may, at its option, restrict the transfer of funds among direct cost categories or programs, functions and activities for Federal awards in which the Federal share of the project exceeds the Simplified Acquisition Threshold and the cumulative amount of such transfers exceeds or is expected to exceed 10 percent of the total budget as last approved by the HHS awarding agency. The HHS awarding agency cannot permit a transfer that would cause any Federal appropriation to be used for purposes other than those consistent with the appropriation.

(f) All other changes to non-construction budgets, except for the changes described in paragraph (c) of this section, do not require prior approval (see also ยง 75.407).

(g) For construction Federal awards, the recipient must request prior written approval promptly from the HHS awarding agency for budget revisions whenever paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section applies.

(1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the project or program.

(2) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project.

(3) A revision is desired which involves specific costs for which prior written approval requirements may be imposed consistent with applicable OMB cost principles listed in subpart E of this part.

(4) No other prior approval requirements for budget revisions may be imposed unless an exception has been approved by OMB.

(5) When an HHS awarding agency makes a Federal award that provides support for construction and non-construction work, the HHS awarding agency may require the recipient to obtain prior approval from the HHS awarding agency before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported.

(h) When requesting approval for budget revisions, the recipient must use the same format for budget information that was used in the application, unless the HHS awarding agency indicates a letter of request suffices.

(i) Within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, the HHS awarding agency must review the request and notify the recipient whether the budget revisions have been approved. If the revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, the HHS awarding agency must inform the recipient in writing of the date when the recipient may expect the decision.

(j) All approvals granted in keeping with the provisions of this section shall not be valid unless they are in writing, and signed by at least one of the following HHS officials:

(1) The Head of the HHS awarding agency that made the award or subordinate official with proper delegated authority from the Head, including the Head of the Regional Office of the HHS awarding agency that made the award; or

(2) The responsible Grants Officer of the HHS awarding agency that made the award or an individual duly authorized by the Grants Officer.
