
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1170 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES
###### Subpart B - Discrimination Prohibited
####### ยง 1170.13 Illustrative examples.

(a) The following examples will illustrate the application of the foregoing provisions to some of the activities funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities.

(1) A publication or a museum catalogue supported by the Endowment may be made usable by the blind and the visually impaired through cassette tapes, records, discs, braille, readers and simultaneous publications.

(2) A lecture, meeting or symposium supported by Federal funds may be made available to deaf and hearing impaired persons through the use of a sign language interpreter or by providing scripts in advance of the performance.

(3) Specific aid, benefits, or services supported by Federal funds may be offered in an inaccessible facility provided that the same aid, benefit, or service is also offered to the public at large in an accessible space.

(4) A qualified handicapped person is one who is able to meet all requirements in spite of his handicap. An educational institution is not required to disregard the disabilities of handicapped individuals or to lower or to make substantial modifications of standards to accommodate a handicapped person.

(b) State humanities committees are obligated to develop methods of administering Federal funds so as to ensure that handicapped persons are not subjected to discrimination on the basis of handicap either by sub-grantees or by the manner in which the funds are distributed.

(c) In the event Endowment funds are utilized to construct, expand, alter, lease or rent a facility, the benefits of the program or activity provided in or through that facility must be conducted in accordance with these regulations, e.g., a museum receiving a grant to renovate an existing facility must assure that all museum aid, benefits, or services conducted in that facility are accessible to handicapped persons.

(d) In carrying out the mandate of section 504 and these implementing regulations recipients should administer Endowment assisted programs or activities in the most integrated setting appropriate, e.g., tours made available to the hearing impaired should be open to the public at large and everyone should be permitted to enjoy the benefits of a tactile experience in a museum.
