
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1171 - PUBLIC ACCESS TO NEH RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
###### ยง 1171.7 Timing of responses to requests.
####### Expedited processing.

(e)(1) The NEH will process requests and appeals on an expedited basis whenever it determines that they involve:

(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited treatment could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or

(ii) An urgency to inform the public about actual or alleged Federal government activity if the expedited processing request is made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information.

(2) A requester may seek expedited processing at the time of the requester's initial request for records or at any later time.

(3) To request expedited processing, a requester must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct to the requester's best knowledge and belief, explaining in detail the basis for requesting expedited processing.

(4) Within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of a request for expedited processing, the NEH will decide whether to grant it and will notify the requester of the decision. If the NEH grants a request for expedited processing, the NEH will place the request in the expedited processing track and then process the request as soon as practicable. If the NEH denies a request for expedited processing, the NEH will act upon any appeal of that decision expeditiously.
