
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1171 - PUBLIC ACCESS TO NEH RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
###### ยง 1171.11 Fees.
####### Limitations on charging requesters.

(d)(1) Except for requesters seeking records for commercial use, the NEH will provide without charge:

(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent); and

(ii) The first two hours of search (or the cost equivalent).

(2) When, after first deducting the 100 pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first two hours of search, the total fee is $25.00 or less for any request, the NEH will not charge a fee.

(3) If NEH fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits in which to respond to a request, it may not charge search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) If NEH has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and NEH has provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional ten (10) working days.

(ii) If NEH has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, NEH may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section, may charge duplication fees, provided NEH provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA and NEH discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).

(iii) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
