
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1173 - INDEMNIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES
###### ยง 1173.1 Policy on employee indemnification.

(a) This part explains when the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) will indemnify you, an employee or a former employee of NEH, against a verdict, judgment, or other monetary award that a court or other competent authority renders against you. When NEH indemnifies you against a verdict, judgment, or other monetary award, it means that NEH will pay the amounts that the court orders you to pay.

(b) This part also explains when NEH will settle a claim (also referred to as compromising a claim) that someone brings or threatens to bring against you in court or before another competent authority. It is only in exceptional circumstances that NEH will agree to settle a claim before a court or other competent authority has entered a verdict, judgment, or monetary award against you.

(c) In order for NEH to indemnify you or settle a claim:

(1) The verdict, judgment, or monetary award to be paid or the claim to be settled must relate to something that you did (or failed to do) within the scope of your employment with NEH; and

(2) The Chairperson of NEH or someone the Chairperson designates (the Agency Official) must determine, as a matter of discretion, that indemnifying you or settling the claim would be in the interest of NEH.

(d) If you become aware that someone has made or may make a claim against you personally as a result of something that you did (or failed to do) within the scope of your employment, you must immediately notify the Office of the General Counsel.

(e) To request that NEH indemnify you or settle a claim against you, you must submit a written request to the Office of the General Counsel. You must include a copy of the verdict, judgment, monetary award, or settlement proposal, as appropriate. The Office of the General Counsel may consult about the matter with your supervisor, other agency employees, and the Department of Justice.

(f) The Agency Official may waive the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section if it would be in the interest of NEH to do so.

(g) If the Agency Official determines that NEH will indemnify you or settle a claim on your behalf, NEH's commitment will be subject to the availability of appropriated funds. The Agency Official may impose other conditions or limitations on the determination at his or her discretion.

(h) If the Chairperson requests indemnification or settlement of a claim, the General Counsel will perform the functions assigned to the Chairperson under this section with respect to that request.
