
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1174 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT REGULATIONS
###### Subpart D - Hearing Procedures
####### ยง 1174.23 Subpoenas for attendance at the hearing.

(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the ALJ issue a subpoena.

(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.

(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request no less than fifteen days before the hearing date unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced, designate the witness, and describe the witness' address and location with sufficient particularity to permit the witness to be found.

(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.

(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the same manner prescribed in ยง 1174.8. The party seeking the subpoena may serve the subpoena on a party, or upon an individual under the control of a party, by first class mail.

(f) The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the subpoenaed witness' fees and mileage in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when it is served, except that when the authority issues a subpoena, a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.

(g) A party, or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed, may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within ten days after service, or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than ten days after service.
