
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1177 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
###### Subpart A - Scope of Standards
####### ยง 1177.2 Definitions and construction.

(a) For the purposes of the standards in this part, the terms "claim" and "debt" are synonymous and interchangeable. They refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that an agency official has determined to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms "claim" and "debt" include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(b) "Chairperson" means the Chairperson of NEH or the Chairperson's designee.

(c) A debt is "delinquent" if it has not been paid by the date specified in the initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement), unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.

(d) Words in the plural form shall include the singular and vice versa, and words signifying the masculine gender shall include the feminine and vice versa. The terms "includes" and "including" do not exclude matters not listed but do include matters that are in the same general class.

(e) "Recoupment" is a special method for adjusting debts arising under the same transaction or occurrence. For example, obligations arising under the same contract generally are subject to recoupment.

(f) Unless otherwise stated, "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate.
