
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1177 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
###### Subpart B - Standards for the Administrative Collection of Claims
####### ยง 1177.11 Collection by administrative offset.
######## Mandatory centralized administrative offset.

(b)(1) NEH is required to refer past due, legally enforceable nontax debts which are over 180 days delinquent to the Secretary for collection by centralized administrative offset. NEH may also refer debts which are less than 180 days delinquent to the Secretary for this purpose. See paragraph (b)(5) of this section for debt certification requirements.

(2) The names and taxpayer identifying numbers (TINs) of debtors who owe debts which NEH referred to the Secretary as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be compared to the names and TINs on payments to be made by Federal disbursing officials. Federal disbursing officials include disbursing officials of Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, other Government corporations, and United States disbursing officials designated by the Secretary. When a debtor's name and TIN match a payee's name and TIN and all other requirements for offset have been met, the payment will be offset to satisfy the debt.

(3) Federal disbursing officials will notify the debtor/payee in writing that an offset has occurred to satisfy, in part or in full, a past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt. The notice will include a description of the type and amount of the payment from which the offset was taken, the amount of offset that was taken, the identity of the creditor agency requesting the offset, and a contact point within the creditor agency who will respond to questions regarding the offset.

(4) NEH will initiate offsets only after:

(i) Sending the debtor written notice of the type and amount of the debt, NEH's intention to use administrative offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716; and

(ii) Giving the debtor the opportunity:

(A) To inspect and copy NEH records related to the debt;

(B) For a review within NEH of its determination of indebtedness; and

(C) To make a written agreement to repay the debt.

(5) NEH may omit the procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section when:

(i) The offset is in the nature of a recoupment;
