
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1177 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
###### Subpart B - Standards for the Administrative Collection of Claims
####### ยง 1177.9 Aggressive NEH collection activity.

(a) NEH will aggressively collect all debts that arise out of its activities, or that are referred or transferred for collection services to NEH. NEH will promptly undertake collection activities and take follow-up action as necessary. Nothing in 31 CFR 900 through 904 requires DOJ, Treasury, or other Treasury-designated debt collection centers to duplicate collection activities previously undertaken by NEH or to perform collection activities that NEH should have undertaken.

(b) Debts that NEH refers or transfers to Treasury or Treasury-designated debt collection centers under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) will be serviced, collected, or compromised, or the collection action will be suspended or terminated, in accordance with the statutory requirements and authorities applicable to the collection of such debts.

(c) NEH will cooperate with other agencies in debt collection activities.

(d) NEH will consider referring debts that are less than 180 days delinquent to Treasury or to Treasury-designated debt collection centers to accomplish efficient, cost effective debt collection. Treasury is a debt collection center, is authorized to designate other Federal agencies as debt collection centers based on their performance in collecting delinquent debts, and may withdraw such designations. Referrals to debt collection centers are at the discretion of, and for a time period acceptable to, the Secretary. Referrals may be for servicing, collection, compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action.

(e) NEH will transfer to the Secretary any debt that has been delinquent for a period of 180 days or more so that the Secretary may take appropriate action to collect the debt or terminate collection action. See 31 CFR 285.12 (Transfer of Debts to Treasury for Collection). This requirement does not apply to any debt that:

(1) Is in litigation or foreclosure;

(2) Will be disposed of under an approved asset sale program;

(3) Has been referred to a private collection contractor for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary;

(4) Is at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary (see paragraph (d) of this section);

(5) Will be collected under internal offset procedures within three years after the debt first became delinquent; or

(6) Is exempt from this requirement based on a determination by the Secretary that exemption for a certain class of debt is in the best interests of the United States. NEH may request that the Secretary exempt specific classes of debts.

(f) Agencies operating Treasury-designated debt collection centers are authorized to charge a fee for services rendered regarding referred or transferred debts. NEH may pay the fee out of amounts it collects and may add the fee to the debt as an administrative cost (see ยง 1177.18).
