
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1177 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
###### Subpart B - Standards for the Administrative Collection of Claims
####### ยง 1177.11 Collection by administrative offset.
######## Non-centralized administrative offset.

(c)(1) Generally, NEH will conduct non-centralized administrative offsets at its discretion on an ad hoc case-by-case basis, internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, NEH may collect past due, legally enforceable non-tax delinquent debts through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, a creditor agency may make a request directly to a payment authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor in order to collect a delinquent debt. For example, it may be appropriate for a creditor agency to request that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) offset a Federal employee's lump sum payment upon leaving Government service in order to satisfy an unpaid advance.

(2) Before requesting that a payment authorizing agency conduct a non-centralized administrative offset, NEH will provide:

(i) The debtor with due process as set forth in paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section; and

(ii) The payment authorizing agency with written certification that the debtor owes past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that NEH has fully complied with its regulations concerning administrative offset.

(3) Payment authorizing agencies will comply with offset requests by creditor agencies to collect debts owed to the United States, unless the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States with respect to the authorizing agency's program, or would otherwise be contrary to law. NEH will make appropriate use of other agencies' cooperative efforts in effecting collection by administrative offset.

(4) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, NEH will apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the specific case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
