
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1177 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
###### Subpart C - Standards for the Compromise of Claims
####### ยง 1177.21 Scope and application.

(a) The standards set forth in this subpart apply to the compromise of debts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711. NEH may exercise such compromise authority for debts that arise out of its activities, or that are referred or transferred to it for collection services, when the amount of the debt then due, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, does not exceed $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General. The Chairperson may designate officials within NEH to exercise the authorities in this section.

(b) Unless otherwise provided by law, when the principal balance of a debt, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, exceeds $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General, the authority to accept the compromise rests with DOJ. NEH will evaluate the compromise offer, using the factors set forth in this subpart. If NEH finds that an offer to compromise a debt in excess of $100,000 is acceptable, it will refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in DOJ using a Claims Collection Litigation Report (CCLR). NEH may obtain the CCLR from DOJ's National Central Intake Facility. The referral will include appropriate financial information and a recommendation for the acceptance of the compromise offer. DOJ approval is not required if NEH rejects a compromise offer.
