
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter D - National Endowment for the Humanities
##### PART 1177 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
###### Subpart E - Referrals to the Department of Justice
####### ยง 1177.33 Prompt referral.

(a) NEH will promptly refer to DOJ for litigation any debts on which it has taken aggressive collection activity in accordance with subpart B of this part and that it cannot compromise, or on which it cannot suspend or terminate collection activity, in accordance with subparts C and D of this part. NEH may refer those debts arising out of its activities, or that were referred or transferred to it for collection services. NEH will refer debts for which the principal amount is over $1,000,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General my direct, exclusive of interest and penalties, to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at DOJ, Washington, DC. NEH will refer debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000 or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest or penalties, to DOJ's Nationwide Central Intake Facility as required by the CCLR instructions. NEH will refer debts as early as possible, consistent with aggressive agency collection activity and the standards contained in this part, and, in any event, well within the period for initiating timely lawsuits against the debtors. NEH will make every effort to refer delinquent debts to DOJ for litigation within one year of the date that such debts last became delinquent.

(b) DOJ has exclusive jurisdiction over the debts NEH refers to it, pursuant to this section. As the referring agency, NEH will immediately terminate its administrative debt collection activities at the time it refers the debt to the DOJ. NEH will advise DOJ of the collection activities it has utilized to date, and their result. NEH will refrain from having any contact with the debtor and shall direct all debtor inquiries concerning the debt to DOJ. NEH will immediately notify DOJ of any payments it credited to the debtor's account after it referred a debt under this section. DOJ will notify NEH, in a timely manner, of any payments it receives from the debtor.
