
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter E - Institute of Museum and Library Services
##### PART 1182 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### ยง 1182.11 Procedures for appealing a refusal to amend or correct an Institute record.

(a) You may appeal a refusal to amend or correct a record to the Director. Such appeal must be made in writing within 10 business days of your receipt of the initial refusal to amend or correct your record. Your appeal should be sent to the Office of the General Counsel (see ยง 1182.3), should indicate that it is an appeal, and should include the basis for the appeal.

(b) The Director will review your request to amend or correct the record, the General Counsel's refusal, and any other pertinent material relating to the appeal. No hearing will be held.

(c) The Director shall render his or her decision on your appeal within 30 business days of its receipt by the Institute, unless the Director, for good cause shown, extends the 30-day period. Should the Director extend the appeal period, you will be informed in writing of the extension and the circumstances of the delay.

(d) If the Director determines that the record that is the subject of the appeal should be amended or corrected, the record will be so modified, and you will be informed in writing of the amendment or correction. Where an accounting was made of prior disclosures of the record, all previous recipients of the record will be informed of the corrective action taken.

(e) If your appeal is denied, you will be informed in writing of the following:

(1) The denial and the reasons for the denial;

(2) That you may submit to the Institute a concise statement setting forth the reasons for your disagreement as to the disputed record. Under the procedures set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, your statement will be disclosed whenever the disputed record is disclosed; and

(3) That you may seek judicial review of the Director's determination under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(a).

(f) Whenever you submit a statement of disagreement to the Institute in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the record will be annotated to indicate that it is disputed. In any subsequent disclosure, a copy of your statement of disagreement will be disclosed with the record. If the Institute deems it appropriate, a concise statement of the Director's reasons for denying our appeal also may be disclosed with the record. While you will have access to this statement of the Director's reasons for denying your appeal, such statement will not be subject to correction or amendment. Where an accounting was made of prior disclosures of the record, all previous recipients of the record will be provided a copy of your statement of disagreement, as well as any statement of the Director's reasons for denying your appeal.
