
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter E - Institute of Museum and Library Services
##### PART 1182 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### ยง 1182.12 Fees charged to locate, review, or copy records.

(a) The Institute shall charge no fees for search time or for any other time expended by the Institute to review a record. However, the Institute may charge fees where you request that a copy be made of a record to which you have been granted access. Where a copy of the record must be made in order to provide access to the record (e.g., computer printout where no screen reading is available), the copy will be made available to you without cost.

(b) Copies of records made by photocopy or similar process will be charged to you at the rate of $0.10 per page. Where records are not susceptible to photocopying (e.g., punch cards, magnetic tapes, or oversize materials), you will be charged actual cost as determined on a case-by-case basis. A copying fee totaling $3.00 or less shall be waived, but the copying fees for contemporaneous requests by the same individual shall be aggregated to determine the total fee.

(c) Special and additional services provided at your request, such as certification or authentication, postal insurance, and special mailing arrangement costs, will be charged to you.

(d) A copying fee shall not be charged or, alternatively, it may be reduced, when the General Counsel determines, based on a petition, that the petitioning individual is indigent and that the Institute's resources permit a waiver of all or part of the fee.

(e) All fees shall be paid before any copying request is undertaken. Payments shall be made by check or money order payable to the "Institute of Museum and Library Services."
