
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter E - Institute of Museum and Library Services
##### PART 1182 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### ยง 1182.15 Institute responsibility for maintaining adequate technical, physical, and security safeguards to prevent unauthorized disclosure or destruction of manual and automatic record systems.
####### Automated systems.

(b)(1) Identifiable personal information may be processed, stored, or maintained by automated data systems only where facilities or conditions are adequate to prevent unauthorized access to such systems in any form. Whenever such data, whether contained in punch cards, magnetic tapes, or discs, are not under the personal control of an authorized person, such information must be stored in a locked or secured room, or in such other facility having greater safeguards than those provided for in this part.

(2) Access to and use of identifiable personal data associated with automated data systems shall be limited to those persons whose duties require such access. Proper control of personal data in any form associated with automated data systems shall be maintained at all times, including maintenance of accountability records showing disposition of input and output documents.

(3) All persons whose duties require access to processing and maintenance of identifiable personal data and automated systems shall be adequately trained in the security and privacy of personal data.

(4) The disposal and disposition of identifiable personal data and automated systems shall be done by shredding, burning, or, in the case of tapes or discs, degaussing, in accordance with regulations of the General Services Administration or other appropriate authority.
