
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XI - National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
#### Subchapter E - Institute of Museum and Library Services
##### PART 1182 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### ยง 1182.15 Institute responsibility for maintaining adequate technical, physical, and security safeguards to prevent unauthorized disclosure or destruction of manual and automatic record systems.
####### Manual systems.

(a)(1) Records contained in a system of records as defined in this part may be used, held, or stored only where facilities are adequate to prevent unauthorized access by persons within or outside the Institute.

(2) All records, when not under the personal control of the employees authorized to use the records, must be stored in a locked filing cabinet. Some systems of records are not of such confidential nature that their disclosure would constitute a harm to an individual who is the subject of such record. However, records in this category also shall be maintained in locked filing cabinets or maintained in a secured room with a locking door.

(3) Access to and use of a system of records shall be permitted only to persons whose duties require such access within the Institute, for routine uses as defined in ยง 1182.2 as to any given system, or for such other uses as may be provided in this part.

(4) Other than for access within the Institute to persons needing such records in the performance of their official duties or routine uses as defined in ยง 1182.1, or such other uses as provided in this part, access to records within a system of records shall be permitted only to the individual to whom the record pertains or upon his or her written request to the General Counsel.

(5) Access to areas where a system of records is stored will be limited to those persons whose duties require work in such areas. There shall be an accounting of the removal of any records from such storage areas utilizing a log, as directed by the Chief Information Officer. The log shall be maintained at all times.

(6) The Institute shall ensure that all persons whose duties require access to and use of records contained in a system of records are adequately trained to protect the security and privacy of such records.

(7) The disposal and destruction of records within a system of records shall be in accordance with rules promulgated by the General Services Administration.
