
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart D - Post Federal Award Requirements
###### Remedies for Noncompliance
####### ยง 75.371 Remedies for noncompliance.

If a non-Federal entity fails to comply with Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of a Federal award, the HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity may impose additional conditions, as described in ยง 75.207. If the HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity determines that noncompliance cannot be remedied by imposing additional conditions, the HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity may take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances:

(a) Temporarily withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the non-Federal entity or more severe enforcement action by the HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity.

(b) Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and any applicable matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance.

(c) Wholly or partly suspend (suspension of award activities) or terminate the Federal award.

(d) Initiate suspension or debarment proceedings as authorized under 2 CFR part 180 and HHS awarding agency regulations at 2 CFR part 376 (or in the case of a pass-through entity, recommend such a proceeding be initiated by a HHS awarding agency).

(e) Withhold further Federal awards for the project or program.

(f) Take other remedies that may be legally available.
