
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1203 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS - EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
##### ยง 1203.10 Decisions and notices.
###### Post-termination proceedings.

(g)(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of the order for eligibility, or if it brings itself into compliance with this part and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this part.

(2) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request ACTION to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. A request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If ACTION determines that those requirements have been satisfied, it shall restore the eligibility.

(3) If ACTION denies a request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes ACTION is in error. The applicant or recipient shall be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record in accordance with the rules or procedures issued by ACTION. The applicant or recipient shall be restored to eligibility if it proves at the hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section remain in effect.
