
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1206 - GRANTS AND CONTRACTS - SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION AND DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR REFUNDING
##### Subpart A - Suspension and Termination of Assistance
###### ยง 1206.1-4 Suspension.
####### Suspension on notice.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the procedure for suspension shall be on notice of intent to suspend as hereinafter provided.

(2) The responsible Corporation official shall notify the recipient by letter or by telegram that the Corporation intends to suspend assistance in whole or in part unless good cause is shown why assistance should not be suspended. In such letter or telegram the responsible Corporation official shall specify the grounds for the proposed suspension and the proposed effective date of the suspension.

(3) The responsible Corporation official shall also inform the recipient of its right to submit written material in opposition to the intended suspension and of its right to request an informal meeting at which the recipient may respond and attempt to show why such suspension should not occur. The period of time within which the recipient may submit such written material or request the informal meeting shall be established by the responsible Corporation official in the notice of intent to suspend. However, in no event shall the period of time within which the recipient must submit written material or request such a meeting be less than 5 days after the notice of intent to suspend assistance has been sent. If the recipient requests a meeting, the responsible Corporation official shall fix a time and place for the meeting, which shall not be less than 5 days after the recipient's request is received by the Corporation.

(4) In lieu of the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section dealing with the right of the recipient to request an informal meeting, the responsible Corporation official may on his own initiative establish a time and place for such a meeting and notify the recipient in writing or by telegram. However, in no event shall such a meeting be scheduled less than seven days after the notice of intent to suspend assistance is sent to the recipient.

(5) The responsible Corporation official may in his discretion extend the period of time or date referred to in the previous paragraphs of this section and shall notify the recipient in writing or by telegram of any such extension.

(6) At the time the responsible Corporation official sends the notification referred to in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section to the recipient, he shall also send a copy of it to any agency whose activities or failures to act have substantially contributed to the proposed suspension, and shall inform such agency that it is entitled to submit written material or to participate in the informal meeting referred to in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section. In addition the responsible Corporation official may in his discretion give such notice to any other agency.

(7) Within 3 days of receipt of the notice referred to in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, the recipient shall send a copy of such notice and a copy of these regulations to all agencies which would be financially affected by the proposed suspension action. Any agency that wishes to submit written material may do so within the time stated in the notice. Any agency that wishes to participate in the informal meeting with the responsible Corporation official contemplated herein may request permission to do so from the responsible Corporation official, who may in his discretion grant or deny such permission. In acting upon any such request from an agency, the responsible Corporation official shall take into account the effect of the proposed suspension on the particular agency, the extent to which the meeting would become unduly complicated as a result of granting such permission, and the extent to which the interests of the agency requesting such permission appear to be adequately represented by other participants.

(8) In the notice of intent to suspend assistance the responsible Corporation official shall invite voluntary action to adequately correct the deficiency which led to the initiation of the suspension proceeding.

(9) The responsible Corporation official shall consider any timely material presented to him in writing, any material presented to him during the course of the informal meeting provided for in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section as well as any showing that the recipient has adequately corrected the deficiency which led to the initiation of suspension proceedings. If after considering the material presented to him the responsible Corporation official concludes the recipient has failed to show cause why assistance should not be suspended, he may suspend assistance in whole or in part and under such terms and conditions as he shall specify.

(10) Notice of such suspension shall be promptly transmitted to the recipient and shall become effective upon delivery. Suspension shall not exceed 30 days unless during such period of time termination proceedings are initiated in accordance with ยง 1206.1-5, or unless the responsible Corporation official and the recipient agree to a continuation of the suspension for an additional period of time. If termination proceedings are initiated, the suspension of assistance shall remain in full force and effect until such proceedings have been fully concluded.

(11) During a period of suspension no new expenditures shall be made and no new obligations shall be incurred in connection with the suspended program except as specifically authorized in writing by the responsible Corporation official. Expenditures to fulfill legally enforceable commitments made prior to the notice of suspension, in good faith and in accordance with the recipient's approved work program, and not in anticipation of suspension or termination, shall not be considered new expenditures. However, funds shall not be recognized as committed solely because the recipient has obligated them by contract or otherwise to an agency.
