
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1206 - GRANTS AND CONTRACTS - SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION AND DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR REFUNDING
##### Subpart A - Suspension and Termination of Assistance
###### ยง 1206.1-4 Suspension.
####### Summary suspension.

(c)(1) The responsible Corporation official may suspend assistance without the prior notice and opportunity to show cause provided in paragraph (b) of this section if he determines in his discretion that immediate suspension is necessary because of a serious risk of:

(i) Substantial injury to or loss of project funds or property, or

(ii) Violation of a Federal, State or local criminal statute, or

(iii) Violation of section 403 of the DVSA or of Corporation rules, regulations, guidelines and instructions implementing this section of the DVSA, and that such risk is sufficiently serious to outweigh the general policy in favor of advance notice and opportunity to show cause.

(2) Notice of summary suspension shall be given to the recipient by letter or by telegram, shall become effective upon delivery to the recipient, and shall specifically advise the recipient of the effective date of the suspension and the extent, terms, and condition of any partial suspension. The notice shall also forbid the recipient to make any new expenditures or incur any new obligations in connection with the suspended portion of the program. Expenditures to fulfill legally enforceable commitments made prior to the notice of suspension, in good faith and in accordance with the recipient's approved work program, and not in anticipation of suspension or termination, shall not be considered new expenditures. However, funds shall not be recognized as committed by a recipient solely because the recipient obligated them by contract or otherwise to an agency. (See note under paragraph (b)(11) of this section.)

(3) In the notice of summary suspension the responsible Corporation official shall advise the recipient that it may request the Corporation to provide it with an opportunity to show cause why the summary suspension should be rescinded. If the recipient requests such an opportunity, the responsible Corporation official shall immediately inform the recipient in writing of the specific grounds for the suspension and shall within 7 days after receiving such request from the recipient hold an informal meeting at which the recipient may show cause why the summary suspension should be rescinded. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, the responsible Corporation official may proceed to initiate termination proceedings at any time even though assistance to the recipient has been suspended in whole or in part. In the event that termination proceedings are initiated, the responsible Corporation official shall nevertheless afford the recipient, if it so requests, an opportunity to show cause why suspension should be rescinded pending the outcome of the termination proceedings.

(4) Copies of the notice of summary suspension shall be furnished by the recipient to agencies in the same manner as notices of intent to suspend as set forth in paragraphs (b)(6), (7), and (8) of this section. Agencies may submit written material to the responsible Corporation official or to participate in the informal meeting as in the case of intended suspension proceedings set forth in paragraphs (b)(6) and (7) of this section.

(5) The effective period of a summary suspension of assistance may not exceed 30 days unless termination proceedings are initiated in accordance with ยง 1206.1-5, or unless the parties agree to a continuation of summary suspension for an additional period of time, or unless the recipient, in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section, requests an opportunity to show cause why the summary suspension should be rescinded.
