
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1206 - GRANTS AND CONTRACTS - SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION AND DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR REFUNDING
##### Subpart A - Suspension and Termination of Assistance
###### § 1206.1-5 Termination.

(a) If the responsible Corporation official believes that an alleged failure to comply with any requirement stated in § 1206.1-1 may be sufficiently serious to warrant termination of assistance, whether or not assistance has been suspended, he shall so notify the recipient by letter or telegram. The notice shall state that there appear to be grounds which warrant terminating the assistance and shall set forth the specific reasons therefore. If the reasons result in whole or substantial part from the activities of an agency other than the grantee, the notice shall identify that agency. The notice shall also advise the recipient that the matter has been set down for hearing at a stated time and place, in accordance with § 1206.1-6. In the alternative the notice shall advise the recipient of its right to request a hearing and shall fix a period of time which shall not be less than 10 days in which the recipient may request such a hearing.

(b) Termination hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the provision of §§ 1206.1-7 and 1206.1-8. They shall be scheduled for the earliest practicable date, but not later than 30 days after a recipient has requested such a hearing in writing or by telegram. Consideration shall be given to a request by a recipient to advance or postpone the date of a hearing scheduled by the Corporation. Any such hearing shall afford the recipient a full and fair opportunity to demonstrate that it is in compliance with requirements specified in § 1206.1-1. In any termination hearing, the Corporation shall have the burden of justifying the proposed termination action. However, if the basis of the proposed termination is the failure of a recipient to take action required by law, regulation, or other requirement specified in § 1206.1-1, the recipient shall have the burden of proving that such action was timely taken.

(c) If a recipient requests the Corporation to hold a hearing in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, it shall send a copy of its request for such a hearing to all agencies which would be financially affected by the termination of assistance and to each agency identified in the notice pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. This material shall be sent to these agencies at the same time the recipient's request is made to the Corporation. The recipient shall promptly send to the Corporation a list of the agencies to which it has sent such material and the date on which it was sent.

(d) If the responsible Corporation official pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section informs a recipient that a proposed termination action has been set for hearing, the recipient shall within 5 days of its receipt of this notice send a copy of it to all agencies which would be financially affected by the termination and to each agency identified in the notice pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The recipient shall send the responsible Corporation official a list of all agencies notified and the date of notification.

(e) If the responsible Corporation official has initiated termination proceedings because of the activities of an agency, that agency may participate in the hearing as a matter of right. Any other agency, person, or organization that wishes to participate in the hearing may, in accordance with § 1206.1-7(d), request permission to do so from the presiding officer of the hearing. Such participation shall not, without the consent of the Corporation and the recipient, alter the time limitations for the delivery of papers or other procedures set forth in this section.

(f) The results of the proceeding and any subsequent measure taken by the Corporation pursuant to this part shall be fully binding upon the recipient and all agencies whether or not they actually participated in the hearing.

(g) A recipient may waive a hearing by notice to the responsible Corporation official in writing and submit written information and argument for the record. Such material shall be submitted to the responsible Corporation official within a reasonable period of time to be fixed by him upon the request of the recipient. The failure of a recipient to request a hearing, or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set, unless excused for good cause, shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as is then in the possession of the Corporation.

(h) The responsible Corporation official may attempt, either personally or through a representative, to resolve the issues in dispute by informal means prior to the date of any applicable hearing.
