
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart D - Post Federal Award Requirements
###### Closeout
####### § 75.381 Closeout.

The HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity will close-out the Federal award when it determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the Federal award have been completed by the non-Federal entity. This section specifies the actions the non-Federal entity and HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity must take to complete this process at the end of the period of performance.

(a) The non-Federal entity must submit, no later than 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance, all financial, performance, and other reports as required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award. The HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity may approve extensions when requested by the non-Federal entity.

(b) Unless the HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity authorizes an extension, a non-Federal entity must liquidate all obligations incurred under the Federal award not later than 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance as specified in the terms and conditions of the Federal award.

(c) The HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity must make prompt payments to the non-Federal entity for allowable reimbursable costs under the Federal award being closed out.

(d) The non-Federal entity must promptly refund any balances of unobligated cash that the HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity paid in advance or paid and that are not authorized to be retained by the non-Federal entity for use in other projects. See OMB Circular A-129 and see § 75.391 for requirements regarding unreturned amounts that become delinquent debts.

(e) Consistent with the terms and conditions of the Federal award, the HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity must make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received.

(f) The non-Federal entity must account for any real and personal property acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal Government in accordance with §§ 75.317 through 75.323 and 75.343.

(g) The HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity should complete all closeout actions for Federal awards no later than 180 calendar days after receipt and acceptance of all required final reports.
