
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart D - Post Federal Award Requirements
###### Post-Closeout Adjustments and Continuing Responsibilities
####### § 75.386 Post-closeout adjustments and continuing responsibilities.

(a) The closeout of a Federal award does not affect any of the following:

(1) The right of the HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review. The HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity must make any cost disallowance determination and notify the non-Federal entity within the record retention period.

(2) The obligation of the non-Federal entity to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions including final indirect cost rate adjustments.

(3) Audit requirements in subpart F of this part.

(4) Property management and disposition requirements in §§ 75.317 through 75.323.

(5) Records retention as required in §§ 75.361 through 75.365.

(b) After closeout of the Federal award, a relationship created under the Federal award may be modified or ended in whole or in part with the consent of the HHS awarding agency or pass-through entity and the non-Federal entity, provided the responsibilities of the non-Federal entity referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, including those for property management as applicable, are considered and provisions made for continuing responsibilities of the non-Federal entity, as appropriate.
