
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1206 - GRANTS AND CONTRACTS - SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION AND DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR REFUNDING
##### Subpart A - Suspension and Termination of Assistance
###### ยง 1206.1-8 Decisions and notices regarding termination.

(a) Each decision of a presiding officer shall contain his findings of fact, and conclusions, and shall state whether he has accepted or rejected each proposed finding of fact and conclusion submitted by the parties, pursuant to ยง 1206.1-7(m). Findings of fact shall be based only upon evidence submitted to the presiding officer and matters of which official notice has been taken. The decision shall also specify the requirement or requirements with which it is found that the recipient has failed to comply.

(b) The decision of the presiding officer may provide for continued suspension or termination of assistance to the recipient in whole or in part, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of the DVSA.

(c) If the hearing is held by an independent hearing examiner rather than by the responsible Corporation official, he shall make an initial decision, and a copy of this initial decision shall be mailed to all parties. Any party may, within 20 days of the mailing of such initial decision, or such longer period of time as the presiding officer specifies, file with the responsible Corporation official his written exceptions to the initial decision and any supporting brief or statement. Upon the filing of such exceptions, the responsible Corporation official shall, within 20 days of the mailing of the exceptions, review the initial decision and issue his own written decision thereof, including the reasons therefore. The decision of the responsible Corporation official may increase, modify, approve, vacate, remit, or mitigate any sanction imposed in the initial decision or may remand the matter to the presiding officer for further hearing or consideration.

(d) Whenever a hearing is waived, a decision shall be made by the responsible Corporation official and a written copy of the final decision of the responsible Corporation official shall be given to the recipient.

(e) The recipient may request the CEO to review a final decision by the responsible Corporation official which provides for the termination of assistance. Such a request must be made in writing within 15 days after the recipient has been notified of the decision in question and must state in detail the reasons for seeking the review. In the event the recipient requests such a review, the CEO or his designee shall consider the reasons stated by the recipient for seeking the review and shall approve, modify, vacate or mitigate any sanction imposed by the responsible Corporation official or remand the matter to the responsible Corporation official for further hearing or consideration. The decision of the responsible Corporation official will be given great weight by the CEO or his designee during the review. During the course of his review the CEO or his designee may, but is not required to, hold a hearing or allow the filing of briefs and arguments. Pending the decision of the CEO or his designee assistance shall remain suspended under the terms and conditions specified by the responsible Corporation official, unless the responsible Corporation official or the CEO or his designee otherwise determines. Every reasonable effort shall be made to complete the review by the CEO or his designee within 30 days of receipt by the CEO of the recipient's request. The CEO or his designee may however extend this period of time if he determines that additional time is necessary for an adequate review.
