
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1206 - GRANTS AND CONTRACTS - SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION AND DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR REFUNDING
##### Subpart A - Suspension and Termination of Assistance
###### § 1206.1-9 Right to counsel; travel expenses.

In all formal or informal proceedings under this subpart, the recipient and the Corporation shall have the right to be represented by counsel or other authorized representatives. If the recipient and any agency which has a right to participate in an informal meeting pursuant to § 1206.1-4 or a termination hearing pursuant to § 1206.1-7 do not have an attorney acting in that capacity as a regular member of the staff of the organization or a retainer arrangement with an attorney, the Boards of Directors of such recipient and agency will be authorized to designate an attorney to represent their organizations at any such show cause proceeding or termination hearing and to transfer sufficient funds from the Federal grant monies they have received for the project to pay the fees, travel, and per diem expenses of such attorney. The fees for such attorney shall be the reasonable and customary fees for an attorney practicing in the locality of the attorney. However, such fees shall not exceed $100 per day without the prior express written approval of the Corporation. Travel and per diem expenses may be paid to such attorney only in accordance with the policies set forth in the federal government travel regulations. The Boards of Directors of the recipient or any agency which has a right to participate in an informal meeting pursuant to § 1206.1-4 or a termination hearing pursuant to § 1206.1-7 will also be authorized to designate two persons in addition to an attorney whose travel and per diem expenses to attend the meeting or hearing may be paid from Federal grant or contract monies. Such travel and per diem expenses shall conform to the policies set forth in the federal government travel regulations.
