
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1216 - NONDISPLACEMENT OF EMPLOYED WORKERS AND NONIMPAIRMENT OF CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE
##### ยง 1216.1-4 Exceptions.

(a) The requirements of ยง 1216.1-3 are not applicable to the following, or similar, situations:

(1) Funds are unavailable for the employment of sufficient staff to accomplish a program authorized or of a character eligible for assistance under the Act and the activity, service, or duty is otherwise appropriate for the assignment of a volunteer.

(2) Volunteer services are required in order to avoid or relieve suffering threatened by or resulting from major natural disasters or civil disturbances.

(3) Reasonable efforts to obtain employed workers have been unsuccessful due to the unavailability of persons within the community who are able, willing, and qualified to perform the needed activities.

(4) The assignment of volunteers will significantly expand services to a target community over those which could be performed by existing paid staff, and the activity, service or duty is otherwise appropriate for the assignment of a volunteer and no actual displacement of paid staff will occur as a result of the assignment.

(b) For the purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) and (4) of this section, the assignment is not appropriate for the assignment of a volunteer if:

(1) The service, duty, or activity is principally a routine administrative or clerical task. This definition applies only to any service, duty, or activity performed by a volunteer receiving financial support apart from reimbursement for expenses.

(2) The volunteer is not directly in contact with groups or individuals whom the Act is designed to serve or is not performing services, duties, or engaged in activities authorized or of a character eligible for assistance under the Act.
