
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1220 - PAYMENT OF VOLUNTEER LEGAL EXPENSES
##### Subpart B - Criminal Proceedings
###### ยง 1220.2-3 Procedure.

(a) Immediately upon the arrest of any volunteer under circumstances in which the payment or bail to prevent incarceration or other serious consequences to the volunteer or the retention of an attorney prior to arraignment is necessary and is covered under ยง 1220.2-1 or ยง 1220.2-2, sponsors shall immediately notify the appropriate Corporation for National and Community Service state office or if the state office cannot be reached, the appropriate Area Manager.

(b) Immediately after notification of the appropriate state office, and with the approval thereof, the sponsor shall advance up to $500 for the payment of bail or such other legal expenses as are necessary prior to arraignment to prevent the volunteer from being incarcerated. In the event it is subsequently determined that the Corporation for National and Community Service or a sponsor is not responsible under this policy for the volunteer's defense, any such advance may be recovered directly from the volunteer or from allowances, stipends, or out-of-pocket expenses which are payable or become payable to the volunteer. In the case of a grassroots sponsor of full-time volunteers that is not able to provide the $500, the Corporation for National and Community Service state office or Area Manager shall immediately make such sum available to the sponsor.

(c) Immediately upon receipt of notification from the sponsor, the state or regional office shall notify the General Counsel, giving all facts and circumstances at that time known to such office. Thereafter the office shall cooperate with the General Counsel in making an investigation of all surrounding facts and circumstances and shall provide such information immediately to the General Counsel.

(d) The General Counsel shall, upon notification by the state office or Area Manager, determine the extent to which the Corporation for National and Community Service will provide funds for the volunteer's defense or reimburse a sponsor for funds it spends on the volunteer's behalf. Included in this responsibility shall be the negotiation of fees and approval of other costs and expenses. State offices and Area Managers are not authorized to commit the Corporation for National and Community Service to the payment of volunteers' legal expenses or to reimburse a sponsor except as provided in this section, without the express consent of the General Counsel. Additionally, the General Counsel shall, in cases arising directly out of the performance of authorized project activities, ascertain whether the services of the United States Attorney can be made available to the volunteer.

(e) The sponsor and the state and regional office shall have a continuing responsibility for cooperation and coordination with the Office of General Counsel during the pendency of any such litigation, and of notifying the General Counsel of any facts and circumstances which come to the attention of such office or the sponsor which affects such litigation.
