
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1225 - MEMBER AND VOLUNTEER DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
##### Subpart C - Processing Class Complaints of Discrimination
###### ยง 1225.13 Acceptance, rejection or cancellation of a complaint.

(a) Upon receipt of a class complaint, the counselor's report, and any other information pertaining to timeliness or other relevant circumstances related to the complaint, the EEOP Director shall review the file to determine whether to accept or reject the complaint, or a portion thereof, for any of the following reasons:

(1) It was not timely filed;

(2) It consists of an allegation which is identical to an allegation contained in a previous complaint filed on behalf of the same class which is pending in the agency or which has been resolved or decided by the agency;

(3) It is not within the purview of this subpart;

(4) The agent failed to consult a Counselor in a timely manner;

(5) It lacks specificity and detail;

(6) It was not submitted in writing or was not signed by the agent;

(7) It does not meet the following prerequisites.

(i) The class is so numerous that a consolidated complaint of the members of the class is impractical;

(ii) There are questions of fact common to the class;

(iii) The claims of the agent of the class are representative of the claims of the class;

(iv) The agent of the class, or his or her representative will fairly and adequately protect the interest of the class.

(b) If an allegation is not included in the counselor's report, the EEOP Director shall afford the agent 15 calendar days to explain whether the matter was discussed and if not, why he or she did not discuss the allegation with the counselor. If the explanation is not satisfactory, the EEOP Director may decide to reject the allegation. If the explanation is not satisfactory, the EEOP Director may require further counseling of the agent.

(c) If an allegation lacks specificity and detail, or if it was not submitted in writing or not signed by the agent, the EEOP Director shall afford the agent 30 days from his or her receipt of notification of the complaint defects to resubmit an amended complaint. The EEOP Director may decide that the agency reject the complaint if the agent fails to provide such information within the specified time period. If the information provided contains new allegations outside the scope of the complaint, the EEOP Director must advise the agent how to proceed on an individual or class basis concerning these allegations.

(d) The EEOP Director may extend the time limits for filing a complaint and for consulting with a Counselor when the agent, or his or her representative, shows that he or she was not notified of the prescribed time limits and was not otherwise aware of them or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from acting within the time limit.

(e) When appropriate, the EEOP Director may determine that a class be divided into subclasses and that each subclass be treated as a class, and the provisions of this section than shall be construed and applied accordingly.

(f) The EEOP Director may cancel a complaint after it has been accepted because of failure of the agent to prosecute the complaint. This action may be taken only after:

(1) The EEOP Director has provided the agent a written request, including notice of proposed cancellation, that he or she provide certain information or otherwise proceed with the complaint; and

(2) Within 30 days of his or her receipt of the request.

(g) An agent must be informed by the EEOP Director in a request under paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section that his or her complaint may be rejected if the information is not provided.
