
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1225 - MEMBER AND VOLUNTEER DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
##### Subpart B - Processing Individual Complaints of Discrimination
###### ยง 1225.10 Corrective action.

When it has been determined by final agency decision that the aggrieved party has been subjected to illegal discrimination, the following corrective actions may be taken:

(a) Selection as a member or volunteer for aggrieved parties found to have been denied selection based on prohibited discrimination.

(b) Reappointment to national service for aggrieved parties found to have been early-terminated as a result of prohibited discrimination. To the extent possible, a member or volunteer will be placed in the same position previously held. However, reassignment to the specific position previously held is contingent on several programmatic considerations such as the continued availability of the position. If the same position is deemed to be no longer available, the aggrieved party will be offered a reassignment to a position in as similar circumstances to the position previously held, or to resign from service for reasons beyond his or her control. Such a reassignment may require both additional training and an additional commitment to national service.

(c) Provision for reasonable attorney fees and other costs incurred by the aggrieved party.

(d) Such other relief as may be deemed appropriate by the CEO or their designee.
