
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XII - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 1232 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart C - Accessibility
###### ยง 1232.14 Existing facilities.

(a) A recipient shall operate each program or activity to which this part applies so that when each part is viewed in its entirety it is readily accessible and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not require a recipient to make each of its existing facilities or every part of a facility accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.

(b) A recipient is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. Where structural changes are necessary to comply with paragraph (a) of this section, such changes shall be made as soon as practicable, but in no event later than three years after the effective date of the regulation.

(c) In the event that structural changes to facilities are necessary to meet the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient shall develop, within six months of the effective date of this part, a transition plan which sets forth in detail the steps necessary to complete the changes, and a schedule for taking those steps. The plan shall be developed with the assistance of interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons. A copy of the plan shall be made available for public inspection.
