
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter B - The Administration for Children and Families, Head Start Program
##### PART 1302 - PROGRAM OPERATIONS
###### Subpart A - Eligibility, Recruitment, Selection, Enrollment, and Attendance
####### ยง 1302.14 Selection process.
######## Selection criteria.,g,et seq.

(a)(1) A proram must annually establish selection criteria that weigh the prioritization of selection of participants, based on community needs identified in the community needs assessment as described in ยง 1302.11(b), and including family income, whether the child is homeless, whether the child is in foster care, the child's age, whether the child is eligible for special education and related services, or early intervention services, as appropriate, as determined under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) (20 U.S.C. 1400) and, other relevant family or child risk factors.

(2) If a program serves migrant or seasonal families, it must select participants according to criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and give priority to children whose families can demonstrate they have relocated frequently within the past two-years to pursue agricultural work.

(3) If a program operates in a service area where Head Start eligible children can enroll in high-quality publicly funded pre-kindergarten for a full school day, the program must prioritize younger children as part of the selection criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If this priority would disrupt partnerships with local education agencies, then it is not required. An American Indian and Alaska Native or Migrant or Seasonal Head Start program must consider whether such prioritization is appropriate in their community.

(4) A program must not deny enrollment based on a disability or chronic health condition or its severity.
