
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter B - The Administration for Children and Families, Head Start Program
##### PART 1302 - PROGRAM OPERATIONS
###### Subpart B - Program Structure
####### § 1302.24 Locally-designed program option variations.
######## Waiver requirements.

(c)(1) The responsible HHS official may waive one or more of the requirements contained in § 1302.21(b), (c)(1)(i), and (c)(2)(iii) and (iv); § 1302.22(a) through (c); and § 1302.23(b) and (c), but may not waive ratios or group size for children under 24 months. Center-based locally-designed options must meet the minimums described in section 640(k)(1) of the Act for center-based programs.

(2) If the responsible HHS official determines a waiver of group size for center-based services would better meet the needs of children and families in a community, the group size may not exceed the limits below:

(i) A group that serves children 24 to 36 months of age must have no more than ten children; and,

(ii) A group that serves predominantly three-year-old children must have no more than twenty children; and,

(iii) A group that serves predominantly four-year-old children must have no more than twenty-four children.

(3) If the responsible HHS official approves a waiver to allow a program to operate below the minimums described in § 1302.21(c)(2)(iii) or (iv), a program must meet the requirements described in § 1302.21(c)(2)(i), or in the case of a double session variation, a program must meet the requirements described in § 1302.21(c)(2)(ii).

(4) In order to receive a waiver under this section, a program must provide supporting evidence that demonstrates the locally-designed variation effectively supports appropriate development and progress in children's early learning outcomes.

(5) In order to receive a waiver of service duration, a program must meet the requirement in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, provide supporting evidence that it better meets the needs of parents than the applicable service duration minimums described in § 1302.21(c)(1) and (c)(2)(iii) and (iv), § 1302.22(c), or § 1302.23(c), and assess the effectiveness of the variation in supporting appropriate development and progress in children's early learning outcomes.
