
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart E - Cost Principles
###### Special Considerations for Institutions of Higher Education
####### ยง 75.419 Cost accounting standards and disclosure statement.
######## Disclosure statement.

(b)An IHE that receives aggregate Federal awards totaling $50 million or more subject to this part during its most recently completed fiscal year must disclose their cost accounting practices by filing a Disclosure Statement (DS-2), which is reproduced in appendix III to part 75. With the approval of the cognizant agency for indirect costs, an IHE may meet the DS-2 submission by submitting the DS-2 for each business unit that received $50 million or more in Federal awards.

(1) The DS-2 must be submitted to the cognizant agency for indirect costs with a copy to the IHE's cognizant agency for audit.

(2) An IHE is responsible for maintaining an accurate DS-2 and complying with disclosed cost accounting practices. An IHE must file amendments to the DS-2 to the cognizant agency for indirect costs six months in advance of a disclosed practice being changed to comply with a new or modified standard, or when a practice is changed for other reasons. An IHE may proceed with implementing the change only if it has not been notified by the Federal cognizant agency for indirect costs that either a longer period will be needed for review or there are concerns with the potential change within the six months period. Amendments of a DS-2 may be submitted at any time. Resubmission of a complete, updated DS-2 is discouraged except when there are extensive changes to disclosed practices.
