
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter B - The Administration for Children and Families, Head Start Program
##### PART 1303 - FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart C - Protections for the Privacy of Child Records
####### ยง 1303.22 Disclosures with, and without, parental consent.
######## Disclosure with parental consent.

(a)(1) Subject to the exceptions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the procedures to protect PII must require the program to obtain a parent's written consent before the program may disclose such PII from child records.

(2) The procedures to protect PII must require the program to ensure the parent's written consent specifies what child records may be disclosed, explains why the records will be disclosed, and identifies the party or class of parties to whom the records may be disclosed. The written consent must be signed and dated.

(3) "Signed and dated written consent" under this part may include a record and signature in electronic form that:

(i) Identifies and authenticates a particular person as the source of the electronic consent; and,

(ii) Indicates such person's approval of the information.

(4) The program must explain to the parent that the granting of consent is voluntary on the part of the parent and may be revoked at any time. If a parent revokes consent, that revocation is not retroactive and therefore it does not apply to an action that occurred before the consent was revoked.
