
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter B - The Administration for Children and Families, Head Start Program
##### PART 1304 - FEDERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
###### Subpart A - Monitoring, Suspension, Termination, Denial of Refunding, Reduction in Funding, and Their Appeals
####### ยง 1304.3 Suspension with notice.
######## Notice requirements.

(b)(1) The responsible HHS official must notify the grantee in writing that ACF intends to suspend financial assistance, in whole or in part. The notice must:

(i) Specify grounds for the suspension;

(ii) Include the date suspension will become effective;

(iii) Inform the grantee that it has the opportunity to submit to the responsible HHS official, at least seven days before suspension becomes effective, any written material it would like the official to consider, and to inform the grantee that it may request, in writing, no later than seven days after the suspension notice was mailed, to have an informal meeting with the responsible HHS official;

(iv) Invite the grantee to voluntarily correct the deficiency; and,

(v) Include a copy of this subpart.

(2) The responsible HHS official must promptly transmit the suspension notice to the grantee. The notice becomes effective when the grantee receives the notice, when the grantee refuses delivery, or when the suspension notice is returned to sender unclaimed.

(3) The responsible HHS official must send a copy of the suspension notice to any delegate agency whose actions or whose failures to act substantially caused or contributed to the proposed suspension. The responsible HHS official will inform the delegate agency that it is entitled to submit written material to oppose the suspension and to participate in the informal meeting, if one is held. In addition, the responsible HHS official may give notice to the grantee's other delegate agencies.

(4) After the grantee receives the suspension notice, it has three days to send a copy of the notice to delegate agencies that would be financially affected by a suspension.
