
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter B - The Administration for Children and Families, Head Start Program
##### PART 1305 - DEFINITIONS
###### ยง 1305.2 Terms.
####### Head Start Early Learning Outcomes Framework: Ages Birth to Five,Head Start Early Learning Outcomes Framework: Ages Birth to Five,

means thewhich describes the skills, behaviors, and knowledge that programs must foster in all children. It includes five central domains: Approaches to Learning; Social and Emotional Development; Language and Literacy; Cognition; and Perceptual, Motor, and Physical Development. These central domains are broken into five domains for infants and toddlers and seven domains for preschoolers. Infant and Toddler domains are Approaches to Learning; Social and Emotional Development; Language and Communication; Cognition; and Perceptual, Motor, and Physical Development. Preschool domains are Approaches to Learning; Social and Emotional Development; Language and Communication; Literacy; Mathematics Development; Scientific Reasoning; and Perceptual, Motor, and Physical Development. Domains are divided into sub-domains with goals that describe broad skills, behaviors, and concepts that are important for school success. Developmental progressions describe the skills, behaviors and concepts that children may demonstrate as they progress. As described in the Head Start Act, the Framework is central to program operations that promote high-quality early learning environments (42 U.S.C. 9832(21)(G)(iv)(II)(aa), 42 U.S.C. 9835(o), 42 U.S.C. 9836(d)(2)(C), 42 U.S.C. 9836a(g)(2)(A), 42 U.S.C. 9837(f)(3)(E), 42 U.S.C. 9837a(a)(3), 42 U.S.C. 9837a(a)(14), 42 U.S.C. 9837b(a)(2)(B)(iii), 42 U.S.C. 9837b(a)(4)(A)(i), and 42 U.S.C. 9837b(a)(4)(B)(iii)).
