
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1321 - GRANTS TO STATE AND COMMUNITY PROGRAMS ON AGING
###### Subpart A - Introduction
####### ยง 1321.1 Basis and purpose of this part.

(a) This part prescribes requirements State agencies shall meet to receive grants to develop comprehensive and coordinated systems for the delivery of supportive and nutrition services under title III of the Older Americans Act, as amended (Act). These requirements include:

(1) Designation and responsibilities of State agencies;

(2) State plans and amendments;

(3) Services delivery; and

(4) Hearing procedures for applicants for planning and services area designation.

(b) The requirements of this part are based on title III of the Act. Title III provides for formula grants to State agencies on aging, under approved State plans, to stimulate the development or enhancement of comprehensive and coordinated community-based systems resulting in a continuum of services to older persons with special emphasis on older individuals with the greatest economic or social need, with particular attention to low-income minority individuals. A responsive community-based system of services shall include collaboration in planning, resource allocation and delivery of a comprehensive array of services and opportunities for all older Americans in the community. The intent is to use title III funds as a catalyst in bringing together public and private resources in the community to assure the provision of a full range of efficient, well coordinated and accessible services for older persons.

(c) Each State agency designates planning and service areas in the State, and makes a subgrant or contract under an approved area plan to one area agency in each planning and service area for the purpose of building comprehensive systems for older people throughout the State. Area agencies in turn make subgrants or contracts to service providers to perform certain specified functions.
