
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1321 - GRANTS TO STATE AND COMMUNITY PROGRAMS ON AGING
###### Subpart B - State Agency Responsibilities
####### ยง 1321.37 Intrastate funding formula.

(a) The State agency, after consultation with all area agencies in the State, shall develop and use an intrastate funding formula for the allocation of funds to area agencies under this part. The State agency shall publish the formula for review and comment by older persons, other appropriate agencies and organizations and the general public. The formula shall reflect the proportion among the planning and service areas of persons age 60 and over in greatest economic or social need with particular attention to low-income minority individuals. The State agency shall review and update its formula as often as a new State plan is submitted for approval.

(b) The intrastate funding formula shall provide for a separate allocation of funds received under section 303(f) for preventive health services. In the award of such funds to selected planning and service areas, the State agency shall give priority to areas of the State:

(1) Which are medically underserved; and

(2) In which there are large numbers of individuals who have the greatest economic and social need for such services.

(c) The State agency shall submit its intrastate formula to the Commissioner for review and comment. The intrastate formula shall be submitted separately from the State plan.
