
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1321 - GRANTS TO STATE AND COMMUNITY PROGRAMS ON AGING
###### Subpart D - Service Requirements
####### ยง 1321.67 Service contributions.

(a) For services rendered with funding under the Older Americans Act, the area agency on aging shall assure that each service provider shall:

(1) Provide each older person with an opportunity to voluntarily contribute to the cost of the service;

(2) Protect the privacy of each older person with respect to his or her contributions; and

(3) Establish appropriate procedures to safeguard and account for all contributions.

(b) Each service provider shall use supportive services and nutrition services contributions to expand supportive services and nutrition services respectively. To that end, the State agency shall:

(1) Permit service providers to follow either the addition alternative or the cost sharing alternatives as stated in 45 CFR 75.307(e)(2) and (3); or

(2) A combination of the two alternatives.

(c) Each service provider under the Older Americans Act may develop a suggested contribution schedule for services provided under this part. In developing a contribution schedule, the provider shall consider the income ranges of older persons in the community and the provider's other sources of income. However, means tests may not be used for any service supported with funds under this part. State agencies, in developing State eligibility criteria for in-home services under section 343 of the Act, may not include a means test as an eligibility criterion.

(d) A service provider that receives funds under this part may not deny any older person a service because the older person will not or cannot contribute to the cost of the service.
