
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1321 - GRANTS TO STATE AND COMMUNITY PROGRAMS ON AGING
###### Subpart D - Service Requirements
####### ยง 1321.71 Legal assistance.

(a) The provisions and restrictions in this section apply only to legal assistance providers and only if they are providing legal assistance under section 307(a)(15) of the Act.

(b) Nothing in this section is intended to prohibit any attorney from providing any form of legal assistance to an eligible client, or to interfere with the fulfillment of any attorney's professional responsibilities to a client.

(c) The area agency shall award funds to the legal assistance provider(s) that most fully meet the standards in this subsection. The legal assistance provider(s) shall:

(1) Have staff with expertise in specific areas of law affecting older persons in economic or social need, for example, public benefits, institutionalization and alternatives to institutionalization;

(2) Demonstrate the capacity to provide effective administrative and judicial representation in the areas of law affecting older persons with economic or social need;

(3) Demonstrate the capacity to provide support to other advocacy efforts, for example, the long-term care ombudsman program;

(4) Demonstrate the capacity to provide legal services to institutionalized, isolated, and homebound older individuals effectively; and

(5) Demonstrate the capacity to provide legal assistance in the principal language spoken by clients in areas where a significant number of clients do not speak English as their principal language.

(d) A legal assistance provider may not require an older person to disclose information about income or resources as a condition for providing legal assistance under this part.

(e) A legal assistance provider may ask about the person's financial circumstances as a part of the process of providing legal advice, counseling and representation, or for the purpose of identifying additional resources and benefits for which an older person may be eligible.

(f) A legal assistance provider and its attorneys may engage in other legal activities to the extent that there is no conflict of interest nor other interference with their professional responsibilities under this Act.

(g) No provider shall use funds received under the Act to provide legal assistance in a fee generating case unless other adequate representation is unavailable or there is an emergency requiring immediate legal action. All providers shall establish procedures for the referral of fee generating cases.

(1) "Fee generating case" means any case or matter which, if undertaken on behalf of an eligible client by an attorney in private practice, reasonably may be expected to result in a fee for legal services from an award to a client, from public funds, or from the opposing party.

(2) Other adequate representation is deemed to be unavailable when:

(i) Recovery of damages is not the principal object of the client; or

(ii) A court appoints a provider or an employee of a provider pursuant to a statute or a court rule or practice of equal applicability to all attorneys in the jurisdiction; or
