
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1323 - GRANTS FOR SUPPORTIVE AND NUTRITIONAL SERVICES TO OLDER HAWAIIAN NATIVES
###### ยง 1323.23 Hearing procedures.

In accordance with section 623(c)(3) of the Act, if the Commissioner disapproves an application from an eligible organization, the organization may file a written request for a hearing with the Commissioner.

(a) The request shall be postmarked or delivered in person within 30 days of the date of the disapproval notice. If it requests a hearing, the organization shall submit to the Commissioner, as part of the request, a full written response to each objection specified in the notice of disapproval, including the pertinent facts and reasons in support of its response, and any and all documentation to support its position. Service of the request shall also be made on the individual(s) designated by the Commissioner to represent him or her.

(b) The Administration on Aging shall have the opportunity to respond within 30 days to the merits of the organization's request.

(c) The Commissioner notifies the organization in writing of the date, time and place for the hearing.

(d) The hearing procedures include the right of the organization to:

(1) A hearing before the Commissioner or an official designated by the Commissioner;

(2) Be heard in person or to be represented by counsel, at no expense to the Administration on Aging;

(3) Present written evidence prior to and at the hearing, and present oral evidence at the hearing if the Commissioner or the Commissioner's designee decides that oral evidence is necessary for the proper resolution of the issues involved, and

(4) Have the staff directly responsible for reviewing the application either present at the hearing, or have a deposition from the staff, whichever the Commissioner or the Commissioner's designee decides.

(e) The Commissioner or the Commissioner's designee conducts a fair and impartial hearing, takes all necessary action to avoid delay and to maintain order and has all powers necessary to these ends.

(f) Formal rules of evidence do not apply to the hearings.

(g) The official hearing transcript together with all papers documents, exhibits, and requests filed in the proceedings, including rulings, constitutes the record for decision.

(h) After consideration of the record, the Commissioner or the Commissioner's designee issues a written decision, based on the record, which sets forth the reasons for the decision and the evidence on which it was based. The decision is issued within 60 days of the date of the hearing, constitutes the final administrative action on the matter and is promptly mailed to the organization.

(i) Either the organization or the staff of the Administration on Aging may request, for good cause, an extension of any of the time limits specified in this section.
