
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1325 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THE DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES PROGRAM
###### ยง 1325.6 Employment of individuals with disabilities.
####### et seq.

Each grantee which receives Federal funding under the Act must meet the requirements of section 107 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 15007) regarding affirmative action. The grantee must take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment and otherwise treat qualified individuals with disabilities without discrimination based upon their physical or mental disability in all employment practices such: Advertising, recruitment, employment, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, selection for training, including apprenticeship, upgrading, demotion or transfer, and layoff or termination. This obligation is in addition to the requirements of 45 CFR part 84, subpart B, prohibiting discrimination in employment practices on the basis of disability in programs receiving assistance from the Department. Recipients of funds under the Act also may be bound by the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-336, 42 U.S.C. 12101) with respect to employment of individuals with disabilities. Failure to comply with section 107 of the Act may result in loss of Federal funds under the Act. If a compliance action is taken, the State will be given reasonable notice and an opportunity for a hearing as provided in subpart E of 45 CFR part 1326.
