
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1325 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THE DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES PROGRAM
###### ยง 1325.9 Grants administration requirements.

(a) The following parts of this title and title 2 CFR apply to grants funded under parts 1326 and 1328 of this chapter, and to grants for Projects of National Significance under section 162 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 15082):

(1) 45 CFR part 16-Procedures of the Departmental Grant Appeals Board.

(2) 45 CFR part 46-Protection of Human Subjects.

(3) 45 CFR part 75-Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for HHS Award.

(4) 2 CFR part 376-Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension.

(5) 45 CFR part 80-Nondiscrimination under Programs Receiving Federal Assistance through the Department of Health and Human Services Effectuation of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(5) 45 CFR part 81-Practice and Procedure for Hearings under part 80 of this title.

(6) 45 CFR part 84-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs and Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance.

(7) 45 CFR part 86-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs and Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance.

(8) 45 CFR part 91-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance from HHS.

(9) 45 CFR part 93-New Restrictions on Lobbying.

(b) The Departmental Appeals Board also has jurisdiction over appeals by any grantee that has received grants under the UCEDD programs or for Projects of National Significance. The scope of the Board's jurisdiction concerning these appeals is described in 45 CFR part 16.

(c) The Departmental Appeals Board also has jurisdiction to decide appeals brought by the States concerning any disallowances taken by the Secretary, or his or her designee, with respect to specific expenditures incurred by the States or by contractors or sub grantees of States. This jurisdiction relates to funds provided under the two formula programs-subtitle B of the Act-Federal Assistance to State Councils on Developmental Disabilities, and subtitle C of the Act-Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Developmental Disabilities. Appeals filed by States shall be decided in accordance with 45 CFR part 16.

(d) In making audits and examination to any books, documents, papers, and transcripts of records of SCDDs, the P&As, the UCEDDs and the Projects of National Significance grantees and sub grantees, as provided for in 45 CFR part 75, the Department will keep information about individual clients confidential to the maximum extent permitted by law and regulations.

(e)(1) The Department or other authorized Federal officials may access client and case eligibility records or other records of a P&A system for audit purposes, and for purposes of monitoring system compliance pursuant to section 103(b) of the Act. However, such information will be limited pursuant to section 144(c) of the Act. No personal identifying information such as name, address, and social security number will be obtained. Only eligibility information will be obtained regarding the type and level of disability of individuals being served by the P&A and the nature of the issue concerning which the system represented an individual.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, if an audit, monitoring review, evaluation, or other investigation by the Department produces evidence that the system has violated the Act or the regulations, the system will bear the burden of proving its compliance. The system's inability to establish compliance because of the confidentiality of records will not relieve it of this responsibility. The P&A may elect to obtain a release regarding personal information and privacy from all individuals requesting or receiving services at the time of intake or application. The release shall state that only information directly related to client and case eligibility will be subject to disclosure to officials of the Department.
