
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1326 - DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES FORMULA GRANT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to State Councils on Developmental Disabilities
####### ยง 1326.30 State plan requirements.

(a) In order to receive Federal funding under this subpart, each State Developmental Disabilities Council must prepare and submit a State plan which meets the requirements of sections 124 and 125 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 15024 and 15025), and the applicable regulation. Development of the State plan and its periodic updating are the responsibility of the State Council on Developmental Disabilities. As provided in section 124(d) of the Act, the Council shall provide opportunities for public input and review (in accessible formats and plain language requirements), and will consult with the Designated State Agency to determine that the plan is consistent with applicable State laws, and obtain appropriate State plan assurances.

(b) Failure to comply with the State plan requirements may result in the loss of Federal funds as described in section 127 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 15027). The Secretary, or his or her designee, must provide reasonable notice and an opportunity for a hearing to the Council and the Designated State Agency before withholding any payments for planning, administration, and services.

(c) The State plan must be submitted through the designated system by AIDD which is used to collect quantifiable and qualifiable information from the State Councils on Developmental Disabilities. The plan must:

(1) Identify the agency or office in the State designated to support the Council in accordance with section 124(c)(2) and 125(d) of the Act. The Designated State Agency shall provide required assurances and support services requested from and negotiated with the Council.

(2) For a year covered by the State plan, include for each area of emphasis under which a goal or goals have been identified, the measures of progress the Council has established or is required to apply in its progress in furthering the purpose of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act through advocacy, capacity building, and systemic change activities.

(3) Provide for the establishment and maintenance of a Council in accordance with section 125 of the Act and describe the membership of such Council. The non-State agency members of the Council shall be subject to term limits to ensure rotating membership.

(d) The State plan must be updated during the five-year period when substantive changes are contemplated in plan content, including changes under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(e) The State plan may provide for funding projects to demonstrate new approaches to direct services that enhance the independence, productivity, and integration and inclusion into the community of individuals with developmental disabilities. Direct service demonstrations must be short-term, with a strategy to locate on-going funding from other sources after five years. Any State desiring to receive assistance beyond five years, under this subtitle, shall include in the State plan the information listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section, and AIDD reserves the right as the overseeing agency to deny the continuation of the demonstration project beyond five years.

(1) The estimated period for the project's continued duration;

(2) Justifications of why the project cannot be funded by the State or other sources and should receive continued funding; and

(3) Provide data outcomes showing evidence of success.

(f) The State plan may provide for funding of other demonstration projects or activities, including but not limited to outreach, training, technical assistance, supporting and educating communities, interagency collaboration and coordination, coordination with related councils, committees and programs, barrier elimination, systems design and redesign, coalition development and citizen participation, and informing policymakers. Demonstrations must be short-term, with a strategy to locate on-going funding from other sources after five years. Any State desiring to receive assistance beyond five years, under this subtitle, shall include in the State plan the information listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section, and AIDD reserves the right as the overseeing agency to deny the continuation of the demonstration project beyond five years.

(1) The estimated period for the project's continued duration;

(2) Justifications on why the project cannot be funded by the State or other resources and should receive continued funding; and

(3) Provide data showing evidence of success.

(g) The State plan must contain assurances that are consistent with section 124 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 15024).
