
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1326 - DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES FORMULA GRANT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to State Councils on Developmental Disabilities
####### ยง 1326.34 Designated State Agency.

(a) The Designated State Agency shall provide the required assurances and other support services as requested and negotiated by the Council. These include:

(1) Provision of financial reporting and other services as provided under section 125(d)(3)(D) of the Act; and

(2) Information and direction, as appropriate, on procedures on the hiring, supervision, and assignment of staff in accordance with State law.

(b) If the State Council on Developmental Disabilities requests a review by the Governor (or State legislature, if applicable) of the Designated State Agency, the Council must provide documentation of the reason for change, and recommend a new preferred Designated State Agency by the Governor (or State legislature, if applicable).

(c) After the review is completed by the Governor (or State legislature, if applicable), and if no change is made, a majority of the non-State agency members of the Council may appeal to the Secretary, or his or her designee, for a review of the Designated State Agency if the Council's independence as an advocate is not assured because of the actions or inactions of the Designated State agency.

(d) The following steps apply to the appeal of the Governor's (or State legislature, if applicable) designation of the Designated State Agency.

(1) Prior to an appeal to the Secretary, or his or her designee, the State Council on Developmental Disabilities, must give a 30 day written notice, by certified mail, to the Governor (or State legislature, if applicable) of the majority of non-State members' intention to appeal the designation of the Designated State Agency.

(2) The appeal must clearly identify the grounds for the claim that the Council's independence as an advocate is not assured because of the action or inactions of the Designated State Agency.

(3) Upon receipt of the appeal from the State Council on Developmental Disabilities, the Secretary, or his or her designee, will notify the State Council on Developmental Disabilities and the Governor (or State legislature, if applicable), by certified mail, that the appeal has been received and will be acted upon within 60 days. The Governor (or State legislature, if applicable) shall within 10 working days from the receipt of the Secretary's, or his or her designated person's, notification provide written comments to the Secretary, or his or her designee, (with a copy sent by registered or certified mail to the Council) on the claims in the Council's appeal. Either party may request, and the Secretary, or his or her designee, may grant, an opportunity for an informal meeting with the Secretary, or his or her designee, at which representatives from both parties will present their views on the issues in the appeal. The meeting will be held within 20 working days of the submission of written comments by the Governor (or State legislature, if applicable). The Secretary, or his or her designee, will promptly notify the parties of the date and place of the meeting.

(4) The Secretary, or his or her designee, will review the issue(s) and provide a final written decision within 60 days following receipt of the appeal from the State Council on Developmental Disabilities. If the determination is made that the Designated State Agency should be redesignated, the Governor (or State legislature, if applicable) must provide written assurance of compliance within 45 days from receipt of the decision.

(5) Anytime during this appeals process the State Council on Developmental Disabilities may withdraw such request if resolution has been reached with the Governor (or State legislature, if applicable) on the Designated State Agency. The Governor (or State legislature, if applicable) must notify the Secretary, or his or her designee, in writing of such a decision.

(e) The Designated State Agency may authorize the Council to contract with State agencies other than the Designated State Agency to perform functions of the Designated State Agency.
