
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1326 - DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES FORMULA GRANT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to State Councils on Developmental Disabilities
####### ยง 1326.36 Final disapproval of the State plan or plan amendments.

The Department will disapprove any State plan or plan amendment only after the following procedures have been complied with:

(a) The State plan has been submitted to AIDD for review. If after contacting the State on issues with the plan with no resolution, a detailed written analysis of the reasons for recommending disapproval shall be prepared and provided to the State Council and State Designated Agency.

(b) Once the Secretary, or his or her designee, has determined that the State plan, in whole or in part, is not approvable, notice of this determination shall be sent to the State with appropriate references to the records, provisions of the statute and regulations, and all relevant interpretations of applicable laws and regulations. The notification of the decision must inform the State of its right to appeal in accordance with subpart E of this part.

(c) The Secretary's, or his or her designee's, decision has been forwarded to the State Council and its Designated State Agency by certified mail with a return receipt requested.

(d) A State has filed its request for a hearing with the Secretary, or his or her designee, within 21 days of the receipt of the decision. The request for a hearing must be sent by certified mail to the Secretary, or his or her designee. The date of mailing the request is considered the date of filing if it is supported by independent evidence of mailing. Otherwise the date of receipt shall be considered the date of filing.
