
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1326 - DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES FORMULA GRANT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to State Councils on Developmental Disabilities
####### ยง 1326.35 Allowable and non-allowable costs for Federal assistance to State Councils on Developmental Disabilities.

(a) Under this subpart, Federal funding is available for costs resulting from obligations incurred under the approved State plan for the necessary expenses of administering the plan, which may include the establishment and maintenance of the State Council, and all programs, projects, and activities carried out under the State plan.

(b) Expenditures which are not allowable for Federal financial participation are:

(1) Costs incurred by institutions or other residential or non-residential programs which do not comply with the Congressional findings with respect to the rights of individuals with developmental disabilities in section 109 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 15009).

(2) Costs incurred for activities not provided for in the approved State plan; and

(3) Costs not allowed under other applicable statutes, Departmental regulations, or issuances of the Office of Management and Budget.

(c) Expenditure of funds that supplant State and local funds are not allowed. Supplanting occurs when State or local funds previously used to fund activities under the State plan are replaced by Federal funds for the same purpose. However, supplanting does not occur if State or local funds are replaced with Federal funds for a particular activity or purpose in the approved State plan if the replaced State or local funds are then used for other activities or purposes in the approved State plan.

(d) For purposes of determining aggregate minimum State share of expenditures, there are three categories of expenditures:

(1) Expenditures for projects or activities undertaken directly by the Council and Council staff to implement State plan activities, as described in section 126(a)(3) of the Act, require no non-Federal aggregate of the necessary costs of such activities.

(2) Expenditures for projects whose activities or products target individuals with developmental disabilities who live in urban or rural poverty areas, as determined by the Secretary, or his or her designee, but not carried out directly by the Council and Council staff, as described in section 126(a)(2) of the Act, shall have non-Federal funding of at least 10 percent in the aggregate of the necessary costs of such projects.

(3) All other projects not directly carried out by the Council and Council staff shall have non-Federal funding of at least 25 percent in the aggregate of the necessary costs of such projects.

(e) The Council may vary the non-Federal funding required on a project-by-project, activity-by-activity basis (both poverty and non-poverty activities), including requiring no non-Federal funding from particular projects or activities as the Council deems appropriate so long as the requirement for aggregate non-Federal funding is met.
