
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1326 - DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES FORMULA GRANT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart E - Practice and Procedure for Hearings Pertaining to States' Conformity and Compliance With Developmental Disabilities State Plans, Reports, and Federal Requirements
####### Preliminary Matters - Notice and Parties
######## ยง 1326.94 Request to participate in hearing.

(a) The Department, the State, the State Council on Developmental Disabilities, the Designated State Agency, and the State Protection and Advocacy System, as appropriate, are parties to the hearing without making a specific request to participate.

(b)(1) Other individuals or groups may be recognized as parties if the issues to be considered at the hearing have caused them injury and their interests are relevant to the issues in the hearing.

(2) Any individual or group wishing to participate as a party must file a petition with the designated individual within 15 days after notice of the hearing has been published in theand must serve a copy on each party of record at that time in accordance with ยง 1326.85(b). The petition must concisely state:

(i) Petitioner's interest in the proceeding;

(ii) Who will appear for petitioner;

(iii) The issues the petitioner wishes to address; and

(iv) Whether the petitioner intends to present witnesses.

(c)(1) Any interested person or organization wishing to participate as amicus curiae must file a petition with the designated individual before the commencement of the hearing. The petition must concisely state:

(i) The petitioner's interest in the hearing;

(ii) Who will represent the petitioner; and

(iii) The issues on which the petitioner intends to present argument.

(2) The presiding officer may grant the petition if he or she finds that the petitioner has a legitimate interest in the proceedings and that such participation will not unduly delay the outcome and may contribute materially to the proper disposition of the issues.

(3) An amicus curiae may present a brief oral statement at the hearing at the point in the proceedings specified by the presiding officer. It may submit a written statement of position to the presiding officer prior to the beginning of a hearing and must serve a copy on each party. It also may submit a brief or written statement at such time as the parties submit briefs and must serve a copy on each party.
