
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1328 - THE NATIONAL NETWORK OF UNIVERSITY CENTERS FOR EXCELLENCE IN DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES, EDUCATION, RESEARCH, AND SERVICE
###### ยง 1328.6 Governance and administration.

(a) The UCEDD must be associated with, or an integral part of, a university and promote the independence, productivity, integration, and inclusion of individuals with developmental disabilities and their families.

(b) The UCEDD must have a written agreement or charter with the university, or affiliated university that specifies the UCEDD designation as an official university component, the relationships between the UCEDD and other university components, the university commitment to the UCEDD, and the UCEDD commitment to the university.

(c) Within the university, the UCEDD must maintain the autonomy and organizational structure required to carry out the UCEDD mission and provide for the mandated activities.

(d) The UCEDD Director must report directly to, or be, a University Administrator who will represent the interests of the UCEDD within the University.

(e) The University must demonstrate its support for the UCEDD through the commitment of financial and other resources.

(f) UCEDD senior professional staff, including the UCEDD Director, Associate Director, Training Director, and Research Coordinator, must hold faculty appointments in appropriate academic departments of the host or an affiliated university, consistent with university policy. UCEDD senior professional staff must contribute to the university by participation on university committees, collaboration with other university departments, and other university community activities.

(g) UCEDD faculty and staff must represent the broad range of disciplines and backgrounds necessary to implement the full inclusion of individuals with developmental disabilities in all aspects of society, consonant with the spirit of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).

(h) The management practices of the UCEDD, as well as the organizational structure, must promote the role of the UCEDD as a bridge between the University and the community. The UCEDD must actively participate in community networks and include a range of collaborating partners.

(i) The UCEDD's Consumer Advisory Committee must meet regularly. The membership of the Consumer Advisory Committee must reflect the racial and ethnic diversity of the State or community in which the UCEDD is located. The deliberations of the Consumer Advisory Committee must be reflected in UCEDD policies and programs.

(j) The UCEDD must maintain collaborative relationships with the SCDD and P&A. In addition, the UCEDD must be a permanent member of the SCDD and regularly participate in Council meetings and activities, as prescribed by the Act.

(k) The UCEDD must maintain collaborative relationships and be an active participant with the UCEDD network and individual organizations.

(l) The UCEDD must demonstrate the ability to leverage additional resources.

(m) The university must demonstrate that the UCEDD have adequate space to carry out the mandated activities.

(n) The UCEDD physical facility and all program initiatives conducted by the UCEDD must be accessible to individuals with disabilities as provided for by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act.

(o) The UCEDD must integrate the mandated core functions into its activities and

programs and must have a written plan for each core function area.

(p) The UCEDD must have in place a long range planning capability to enable it to respond to emergent and future developments in the field.

(q) The UCEDD must utilize state-of-the-art methods, including the active participation of individuals, families and others of UCEDD programs and services to evaluate programs. The UCEDD must refine and strengthen its programs based on evaluation findings.

(r) The UCEDD Director must demonstrate commitment to the field of developmental disabilities, leadership, and vision in carrying out the mission of the UCEDD.

(s) The UCEDD must meet the "Employment of Individuals with Disabilities" requirements as described in section 107 of the Act.
