
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1328 - THE NATIONAL NETWORK OF UNIVERSITY CENTERS FOR EXCELLENCE IN DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES, EDUCATION, RESEARCH, AND SERVICE
###### ยง 1328.7 Five-year plan and annual report.

(a) As required by section 154(a)(2) of the DD Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 15064), the application for core funding for a UCEDD shall describe a five-year plan, including a projected goal or goals related to one or more areas of emphasis for each of the core functions in section 153(a)(2) of the DD Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C.15063).

(1) For each area of emphasis under which a goal has been identified, the UCEDD must state in its application the measures of progress with the requirements of the law and applicable regulation, in accordance with current practice.

(2) If changes are made to the measures of progress established for a year, the five-year plan must be amended to reflect those changes and approved by AIDD upon review.

(3) By July 30 of each year, a UCEDD shall submit an Annual Report, using the system established or funded by AIDD. In order to be accepted by AIDD, an Annual Report must meet the requirements of section 154(e) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 15064) and, the applicable regulations, and include the information necessary for the Secretary, or his or her designee, to comply with section 105(1), (2), and (3) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 15005) and any other information requested by AIDD. The Report shall include information on progress made in achieving the UCEDD's goals for the previous year, including:

(i) The extent to which the goals were achieved;

(ii) A description of the strategies that contributed to achieving the goals;

(iii) The extent to which the goals were not achieved;

(iv) A detailed description of why goals were not met; and

(v) An accounting of the manner in which funds paid to the UCEDD for a fiscal year were expended.

(4) The Report also must include information on proposed revisions to the goals and a description of successful efforts to leverage funds, other than funds under the Act, to pursue goals consistent with the UCEDD program.

(5) Each UCEDD must include in its Annual Report information on its achievement of the measures of progress.

(b) [Reserved]
