
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1329 - STATE INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES AND CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1329.3 Applicability of other regulations.

Several other regulations apply to all activities under this part. These include but are not limited to:

(a) 45 CFR part 16-Procedures of the Departmental Grant Appeals Board.

(b) 45 CFR part 46-Protection of Human Subjects.

(c) 45 CFR part 75-Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for HHS Awards.

(d) 45 CFR part 80-Nondiscrimination under Programs Receiving Federal Assistance through the Department of Health and Human Services-Effectuation of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(e) 45 CFR part 81-Practice and Procedure for Hearings under Part 80 of this Title.

(f) 45 CFR part 84-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance.

(g) 45 CFR part 86-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance.

(h) 45 CFR part 91-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance from HHS.

(i) 45 CFR part 93-New Restrictions on Lobbying.

(j) 2 CFR part 376-Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension.

(k) 2 CFR part 382-Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).
