
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1329 - STATE INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES AND CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING
###### Subpart B - Independent Living Services
####### ยง 1329.15 Duties of the SILC.

(a) The duties of the SILC are those set forth in section 705(c), (d), and (e) of the Act.

(1) The SILC shall develop the SPIL in accordance with guidelines developed by the Administrator;

(2) The SILC shall monitor, review and evaluate the implementation of the SPIL on a regular basis as determined by the SILC and set forth in the SPIL;

(3) The SILC shall meet regularly, and ensure that such meetings are open to the public and sufficient advance notice of such meetings is provided;

(4) The SILC shall submit to the Administrator such periodic reports as the Administrator may reasonably request, and keep such records, and afford such access to such records, as the Administrator finds necessary to verify the information in such reports; and

(5) The SILC shall, as appropriate, coordinate activities with other entities in the State that provide services similar to or complementary to independent living services, such as entities that facilitate the provision of or provide long-term community-based services and supports.

(b) In carrying out the duties under this section, the SILC may provide contact information for the nearest appropriate CIL. Sharing of such information shall not constitute the direct provision of independent living services as defined in section 705(c)(3) of the Act.

(c) The SILC, in conjunction with the DSE, shall prepare a plan for the provision of resources, including staff and personnel that are necessary and sufficient to carry out the functions of the SILC.

(1) The resource plan amount shall be commensurate, to the extent possible, with the estimated costs related to SILC fulfilment of its duties and authorities consistent with the approved State Plan.

(2) Available resources include: Innovation and Expansion (I&E) funds authorized by 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(18); Independent Living Part B funds; State matching funds; other public funds (such as Social Security reimbursement funds); and private sources.

(3) In accordance with ยง 1329.10(a)(1), no more than 30 percent of the State's allocation of Part B and Part B State matching funds may be used to fund the resource plan, unless the approved SPIL provides that more than 30 percent is needed and justifies the greater percentage.

(4) No conditions or requirements may be included in the SILC's resource plan that may compromise the independence of the SILC.

(5) The SILC is responsible for the proper expenditure of funds and use of resources that it receives under the resource plan.

(6) A description of the SILC's resource plan must be included in the State plan. The plan should include:

(i) Staff/personnel;

(ii) Operating expenses;

(iii) Council compensation and expenses;

(iv) Meeting expenses, including public hearing expenses, such as meeting space, alternate formats, interpreters, and other accommodations;

(v) Resources to attend and/or secure training for staff and Council members; and

(vi) Other costs as appropriate.

(d) The SILC shall carry out the activities in paragraph (a), to better serve individuals with significant disabilities and help achieve the purpose of section 701 of the Act.

(e) The SILC shall, consistent with State law, supervise and evaluate its staff and other personnel as may be necessary to carry out its functions under this section.
