
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1330 - NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR DISABILITY, INDEPENDENT LIVING, AND REHABILITATION RESEARCH
###### Subpart A - Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research Projects and Centers Program
####### ยง 1330.2 Eligibility for assistance and other regulations and guidance.

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this part or in a determination by the NIDILRR Director, the following entities are eligible for an award under this program:

(1) States.

(2) Public or private agencies, including for-profit agencies.

(3) Public or private organizations, including for-profit organizations.

(4) Institutions of higher education.

(5) Indian tribes and tribal organizations.

(b) Other sources of regulation which may apply to awards under this part include but are not limited to:

(1) 45 CFR part 16-Procedures of the Departmental Grant Appeals Board.

(2) 45 CFR part 46-Protection of Human Subjects.

(3) 45 CFR part 75-Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for HHS Awards.

(4) 2 CFR parts 376 and 382-Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension and Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).

(5) 45 CFR part 80-Nondiscrimination under Programs Receiving Federal Assistance through the Department of Health and Human Services-Effectuation of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(6) 45 CFR part 81-Practice and Procedure for Hearings under part 80 of this title.

(7) 45 CFR part 84-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance.

(8) 45 CFR part 86-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance.

(9) 45 CFR part 87-Equal Treatment of Faith-Based Organizations.

(10) 45 CFR part 91-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance from HHS.

(11) 45 CFR part 93-New Restrictions on Lobbying.
