
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1330 - NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR DISABILITY, INDEPENDENT LIVING, AND REHABILITATION RESEARCH
###### Subpart C - Selection of Awardees
####### ยง 1330.24 Selection criteria.
######## Quality of the project design.

(p)In determining the quality of the design of the proposed project, the Director considers one or more of the following factors:

(1) The extent to which the goals, objectives, and outcomes to be achieved by the proposed project are clearly specified and measurable.

(2) The quality of the methodology to be employed in the proposed project.

(3) The extent to which the design of the proposed project includes a thorough, high-quality review of the relevant literature, a high-quality plan for project implementation, and the use of appropriate methodological tools to ensure successful achievement of project objectives.

(4) The extent to which the design of the proposed project is appropriate to, and will successfully address, the needs of the target population or other identified needs.

(5) The extent to which the proposed development efforts include adequate quality controls and, as appropriate, repeated testing of products.

(6) The extent to which the proposed project will be coordinated with similar or related efforts, and with other appropriate community, State, and Federal resources.

(7) The extent to which the design of the proposed project reflects up-to-date knowledge from research and effective practice.

(8) The extent to which the proposed project represents an exceptional approach to the priority or priorities established for the competition.
