
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1330 - NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR DISABILITY, INDEPENDENT LIVING, AND REHABILITATION RESEARCH
###### Subpart C - Selection of Awardees
####### ยง 1330.24 Selection criteria.
######## Project staff.

(n)In determining the quality of the applicant's project staff, the Director considers one or more of the following factors:

(1) The extent to which the applicant encourages applications for employment from people with disabilities, who may include but are not limited to people with disabilities who have the greatest support needs.

(2) The extent to which the applicant encourages applications for employment from people who are members of other groups that have traditionally been underrepresented in research professions based on race, ethnicity, national origin, sex (including sexual orientation and gender identity), or age.

(3) The extent to which the key personnel and other key staff have appropriate training and experience in disciplines required to conduct all proposed activities.

(4) The extent to which the commitment of staff time is adequate to accomplish all the proposed activities of the project.

(5) The extent to which the key personnel are knowledgeable about the methodology and literature of pertinent subject areas.

(6) The extent to which the project staff includes outstanding scientists in the field.

(7) The extent to which key personnel have up-to-date knowledge from research or effective practice in the subject area covered in the priority.
