
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter C - The Administration for Community Living
##### PART 1331 - STATE HEALTH INSURANCE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1331.4 Number and size of grants.
####### Calculation of variable portion of the grant.

(c)(1) ACL bases the variable portion of the grant on-

(i) The amount of available funds, and

(ii) A comparison of each State with the average of all of the States (except the State being compared) with respect to three factors that relate to the size of the State's Medicare population and where that population resides.

(2) The factors ACL uses to compare States' Medicare populations comprise separate components of the variable amount. These factors, and the extent to which they each contribute to the variable amount, are as follows:

(i) Approximately 75 percent of the variable amount is based on the number of Medicare beneficiaries living in the State as a percentage of all Medicare beneficiaries nationwide.

(ii) Approximately 10 percent of the variable amount is based on the percentage of the State's total population who are Medicare beneficiaries.

(iii) Approximately 15 percent of the variable amount is based on the percentage of the State's Medicare beneficiaries that reside in rural areas ("rural areas" are defined as all areas not included within a metropolitan Statistical Area).

(3) Based on the foregoing four factors (that is, the amount of available funds and the three comparative factors), ACL determines a variable rate for each participating State for each grant period.
