
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter D - The Administration for Native Americans, Native American Programs
##### PART 1336 - NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - Native American Projects
####### ยง 1336.34 Notice of ineligibility.

(a) Upon a finding by the Commissioner that an organization which has applied for funding is ineligible or that the activities proposed by an organization are ineligible, the Commissioner shall inform the applicant by certified letter of the decision.

(b) The letter must include the following:

(1) The legal and factual grounds for the Commissioner's finding concerning eligibility;

(2) A copy of the regulations in this part; and

(3) The following statement: This is the final decision of the Commissioner, Administration for Native Americans. It shall be the final decision of the Department unless, within 30 days after receiving this decision as provided in ยง 810(b) of the Native Americans Programs Act of 1974, as amended, and 45 CFR part 1336, you deliver or mail (you should use registered or certified mail to establish the date) a written notice of appeal to the HHS Departmental Appeals Board, 200 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20201. You shall attach to the notice a copy of this decision and note that you intend an appeal. The appeal must clearly identify the issue(s) in dispute and contain a statement of the applicant's position on such issue(s) along with pertinent facts and reasons in support of the position. We are enclosing a copy of 45 CFR part 1336 which governs the conduct of appeals under ยง 810(b). For additional information on the appeals process see 45 CFR 1336.35. (Statutory authority: Sections 810(b) of the Native American Programs Act of 1974, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2991h(b).)
