
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter D - The Administration for Native Americans, Native American Programs
##### PART 1336 - NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - Native American Projects
####### ยง 1336.35 Appeal of ineligibility.

The following steps apply when seeking an appeal on a finding of ineligibility for funding:

(a) An applicant, which has had its application rejected either because it has been found ineligible or because the activities it proposes are ineligible for funding by the Commissioner of ANA, may appeal the Commissioner's ruling to the HHS Departmental Appeals Board, in writing, within 30 days following receipt of ineligibility notification.

(b) The appeal must clearly identify the issue(s) in dispute and contain a statement of the applicant's position on such issue(s) along with pertinent facts and reasons in support of the position.

(c) Upon receipt of appeal for reconsideration of a rejected application or activities proposed by an applicant, the Departmental Appeals Board will notify the applicant by certified mail that the appeal has been received.

(d) The applicant's request for reconsideration will be reviewed by the Departmental Appeals Board in accordance with 45 CFR part 16, except as otherwise provided in this part.

(e) The Commissioner shall have 45 days to respond to the applicant's submission under paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) The applicant shall have 20 days to respond to the Commissioner's submission and the parties may be requested to submit additional information within a specified time period before closing the record in the appeal.

(g) The Departmental Appeals Board will review the record in the appeal and provide a final written decision within 30 days following the closing of the record, unless the Board determines for good reason that a decision cannot be issued within this time period and so notifies the parties.

(h) If the Departmental Appeals Board determines that the applicant is eligible or that the activities proposed by the applicant are eligible for funding, such eligibility shall not be effective until the next cycle of grant proposals are considered by the Administration for Native Americans. (Statutory authority: Sections 810(b) of the Native American Programs Act of 1974, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2991h(b).)
