
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart E - Cost Principles
###### General Provisions for Selected Items of Cost
####### ยง 75.448 Intellectual property.
######## Royalties and other costs for use of patents and copyrights.

(b)(1) Royalties on a patent or copyright or amortization of the cost of acquiring by purchase a copyright, patent, or rights thereto, necessary for the proper performance of the Federal award are allowable unless:

(i) The Federal Government already has a license or the right to free use of the patent or copyright.

(ii) The patent or copyright has been adjudicated to be invalid, or has been administratively determined to be invalid.

(iii) The patent or copyright is considered to be unenforceable.

(iv) The patent or copyright is expired.

(2) Special care should be exercised in determining reasonableness where the royalties may have been arrived at as a result of less-than-arm's-length bargaining, such as:

(i) Royalties paid to persons, including corporations, affiliated with the non-Federal entity.

(ii) Royalties paid to unaffiliated parties, including corporations, under an agreement entered into in contemplation that a Federal award would be made.

(iii) Royalties paid under an agreement entered into after a Federal award is made to a non-Federal entity.

(3) In any case involving a patent or copyright formerly owned by the non-Federal entity, the amount of royalty allowed must not exceed the cost which would have been allowed had the non-Federal entity retained title thereto.
