
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter F - The Administration for Children, Youth and Families, Family and Youth Services Bureau
##### PART 1351 - RUNAWAY AND HOMELESS YOUTH PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - What are the Runaway and Homeless Youth Program-Specific Performance Standards?
####### ยง 1351.30 What performance standards must Basic Center Program grantees meet?

(a)(1) Grantees shall consistently enhance outcomes for youth in the following four core areas:

(i) Social and Emotional Well-being;

(ii) Permanent Connections;

(iii) Education or Employment; and

(iv) Stable Housing.

(2) Each grantee shall report data related to these outcomes, using existing data collection processes found under PRA OMB Control Numbers 0970-0406 and 0970-0123, and their successors.

(b) Grantees shall ensure that youth receive counseling services that are trauma informed and match the individual needs of each client. Data shall be reported by each grantee on the type of counseling each youth received (individual, family and/or group counseling), the participation rate based on a youth's service plan or treatment plan, and the completion rate based on a youth's service plan or treatment plan, where applicable.

(c) Grantees that choose to provide street-based services, home-based services, drug and/or alcohol abuse education and prevention services, and/or testing for sexually transmitted diseases (at the request of the youth) shall ensure youth receive the appropriate services. Data shall be reported on the completion rate for each service provided based on the youth's service or treatment plan.

(d) Grantees shall ensure that youth have safe and appropriate exits when leaving the program. Each grantee shall report data on the type of exit experienced by each young person departing a Basic Center Program.
