
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter F - The Administration for Children, Youth and Families, Family and Youth Services Bureau
##### PART 1351 - RUNAWAY AND HOMELESS YOUTH PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - What are the Runaway and Homeless Youth Program-Specific Performance Standards?
####### ยง 1351.31 What performance standards must Transitional Living Program grantees, including Maternity Group Homes, meet?

(a)(1) Grantees shall consistently enhance outcomes for youth in the following four core areas:

(i) Social and Emotional Well-being;

(ii) Permanent Connections;

(iii) Education or Employment; and

(iv) Stable Housing.

(2) Each grantee shall report data related to these outcomes, using existing data collection and reporting processes, in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act and the Office of Management and Budget Control Numbers 0970-0406 and 0970-0123, and their successors.

(b) Grantees shall ensure youth are engaged in educational advancement, job attainment skills or work activities while in the program. Each grantee shall report data on the type of education or job-related activities that each youth is engaged in.

(c) Grantees shall ensure and report that youth receive health care referrals, including both services and insurance, as determined within their health care referral plan.

(d) Maternity Group Home Grantees shall ensure and report that youth receive consistent pre-natal care, well-baby exams, and immunizations for the infant while in the program.

(e) Grantees shall ensure that youth have safe and appropriate exits when leaving the program. Each grantee shall report data on the type of exit experienced by each young person departing a Transitional Living Program.
