
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1355 - GENERAL
###### § 1355.30 Other applicable regulations.

Except as specified, the following regulations are applicable to State and Tribal programs funded under titles IV-B and IV-E of the Act.

(a) 45 CFR Part 16-Procedures of the Departmental Grant Appeals Board.

(b) 45 CFR Part 30-Claims Collection.

(c) 2 CFR part 376-Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension.

(d) 2 CFR part 382-Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).

(e) 45 CFR Part 80-Nondiscrimination Under Programs Receiving Federal Assistance Through the Department of Health and Human Services Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(f) 45 CFR Part 81-Practice and Procedure for Hearings Under Part 80 of This Title.

(g) 45 CFR Part 84-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs and Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance.

(h) 45 CFR Part 91-Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in HHS Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance.

(i) 45 CFR part 75-Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for HHS Awards. Part 75 of this title is applicable to title IV-B programs and the John H. Chafee Foster Care Independence Program under Section 477 of the Act that are operated by States and/or Tribes. Part 75 of this title is applicable to title IV-E foster care and adoption assistance programs operated by a State title IV-E agency, except that section 75.306 Cost sharing or matching and section 75.341 Financial reporting do not apply. Part 75 of this title is applicable to title IV-E foster care and adoption assistance programs operated by a Tribal title IV-E agency pursuant to section 479B, except that section 75.341 and the sections specified in § 1356.68 do not apply to a Tribal title IV-E agency.

(j) 45 CFR Part 93-New Restrictions on Lobbying.

(k) 45 CFR part 95-General Administration-Grant Programs (Public Assistance and Medical Assistance). Part 95 of this title is applicable to State and Indian Tribe operated title IV-B and title IV-E programs, except:

(1) Notwithstanding 45 CFR 95.1(a), subpart A, Time Limits for States to File Claims, does not apply to State and Indian Tribe-operated title IV-B (subparts 1 and 2) program and the John H. Chafee Foster Care Independence Program; and

(2) 45 CFR part 95 Subpart E, Cost Allocation Plans, is not applicable to Indian Tribe-operated title IV-E foster care and adoption assistance pursuant to section 479B of the Act (ACYF-CB-PI-10-13).

(l) 45 CFR Part 97-Consolidation of Grants to the Insular Areas. (Applicable only to the title IV-B programs).

(m) 45 CFR part 100-Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services Programs and Activities. Only one section is applicable: 45 CFR 100.12, How may a State simplify, consolidate, or substitute federally required State plans? This section is applicable to a State title IV-E agency only.

(n) 45 CFR part 201-Grants to States for Public Assistance Programs. Only the following sections are applicable:

(1) § 201.5-Grants. Applicable to title IV-E foster care and adoption assistance only.

(2) § 201.6-Withholding of payment; reduction of Federal financial participation in the costs of social services and training. Applicable only to an unapprovable change in an approved plan, or the failure of the agency to change its approved plan to conform to a new Federal requirement for approval of plans.

(3) § 201.15-Deferral of claims for Federal financial participation. Applicable only to title IV-E foster care and adoption assistance.

(4) § 201.66-Repayment of Federal funds by installments. Applicable only to title IV-E foster care and adoption assistance.

(o) 45 CFR 204.1-Submittal of State Plans for Governor's Review. Applicable to State title IV-E agencies only.

(p) 45 CFR Part 205-General Administration-Public Assistance Programs. Only the following sections are applicable:

(1) § 205.5-Plan amendments.

(2) § 205.10-Hearings.

(3) § 205.50-Safeguarding information for the financial assistance programs.

(4) § 205.100-Single State agency.
