
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1355 - GENERAL
###### ยง 1355.44 Out-of-home care data file elements.
####### Health, behavioral or mental health conditions.

(10)Indicate whether the child was diagnosed by a qualified professional, as defined by the state or tribe, as having a health, behavioral or mental health condition, prior to or during the child's current out-of-home care episode as of the last day of the report period. Indicate "child has a diagnosed condition" if a qualified professional has made such a diagnosis and for each paragraph (b)(10)(i) through (xi) of this section, indicate "existing condition," "previous condition" or "does not apply," as applicable. "Previous condition" means a previous diagnoses that no longer exists as a current condition. Indicate "no exam or assessment conducted" if a qualified professional has not conducted a medical exam or assessment of the child and leave paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (xi) of this section blank. Indicate "exam or assessment conducted and none of the conditions apply" if a qualified professional has conducted a medical exam or assessment and has concluded that the child does not have one of the conditions listed and leave paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (xi) of this section blank. Indicate "exam or assessment conducted but results not received" if a qualified professional has conducted a medical exam or assessment but the title IV-E agency has not yet received the results of such an exam or assessment and leave paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (xi) of this section blank.
