
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1355 - GENERAL
###### ยง 1355.44 Out-of-home care data file elements.
####### Educational level.

(12)Indicate the highest educational level from kindergarten to college or post-secondary education/training completed by the child as of the last day of the report period. If child has not reached compulsory school-age, indicate "not school-age." Indicate "kindergarten" if the child is currently in or about to begin 1st grade. Indicate "1st grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 2nd grade. Indicate "2nd grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 3rd grade. Indicate "3rd grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 4th grade. Indicate "4th grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 5th grade. Indicate "5th grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 6th grade. Indicate "6th grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 7th grade. Indicate "7th grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 8th grade. Indicate "8th grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 9th grade. Indicate "9th grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 10th grade. Indicate "10th grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 11th grade. Indicate "11th grade" if the child is currently in or about to begin 12th grade. Indicate "12th grade" if the child has graduated from high school. Indicate "GED" if the child has completed a general equivalency degree or other high school equivalent. Indicate "Post-secondary education or training" if the child has completed any post-secondary education or training, including vocational training, other than an education pursued at a college or university. Indicate "College" if the child has completed at least a semester of study at a college or university.
