
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1355 - GENERAL
###### ยง 1355.44 Out-of-home care data file elements.
####### Environment at removal.

(3)Indicate the type of environment (household or facility) the child was living in at the time of each removal for each removal reported in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Indicate "parent household" if the child was living in a household that included one or both of the child's parents, whether biological, adoptive or legal. Indicate "relative household" if the child was living with a relative(s), the relative(s) is not the child's legal guardian and neither of the child's parents were living in the household. Indicate "legal guardian household" if the child was living with a legal guardian(s), the guardian(s) is not the child's relative and neither of the child's parents were living in the household. Indicate "relative legal guardian household" if the child was living with a relative(s) who is also the child's legal guardian. Indicate "justice facility" if the child was in a detention center, jail or other similar setting where the child was detained. Indicate "medical/mental health facility" if the child was living in a facility such as a medical or psychiatric hospital or residential treatment center. Indicate "other" if the child was living in another situation not so described, such as living independently or homeless.
