
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1355 - GENERAL
###### ยง 1355.44 Out-of-home care data file elements.
####### Other living arrangement type.

(4)If the title IV-E agency indicated that the child's living arrangement is other than a foster family home in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, indicate the type of setting; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave this paragraph (e)(4) blank. Indicate "group home-family operated" if the child is in a group home that provides 24-hour care in a private family home where the family members are the primary caregivers. Indicate "group home-staff operated" if the child is in a group home that provides 24-hour care for children where the care-giving is provided by shift or rotating staff. Indicate "group home-shelter care" if the child is in a group home that provides 24-hour care which is short-term or transitional in nature, and is designated by the state or tribal licensing/approval authority to provide shelter care. Indicate "residential treatment center" if the child is in a facility that has the purpose of treating children with mental health or behavioral conditions or if the child is placed with a parent who is in a licensed residential family-based treatment facility for substance abuse pursuant to section 472(j) of the Act. This does not include a qualified residential treatment program defined in section 472(k)(4) of the Act. Indicate "qualified residential treatment program" if the child is in a placement that meets all of the requirements of section 472(k)(2)(A) and (4) of the Act. Indicate "child care institution" if the child is in a private child care institution, or a public child care institution which accommodates no more than 25 children, and is licensed by the state or tribal authority responsible for licensing or approving child care institutions. This includes a setting specializing in providing prenatal, post-partum, or parenting supports for youth pursuant to section 472(k)(2)(B) of the Act, and a setting providing high-quality residential care and supportive services to children and youth who have been found to be, or are at risk of becoming, sex trafficking victims pursuant to section 472(k)(2)(D) of the Act. This does not include detention facilities, forestry camps, training schools or any other facility operated primarily for the detention of children who are determined to be delinquent. Indicate "child care institution-shelter care" if the child is in a child care institution and the institution is designated to provide shelter care by the state or tribal authority responsible for licensing or approving child care institutions and is short-term or transitional in nature. Indicate "supervised independent living" if the child is living independently in a supervised setting. Indicate "juvenile justice facility" if the child is in a secure facility or institution where alleged or adjudicated juvenile delinquents are housed. Indicate "medical or rehabilitative facility" if the child is in a facility where an individual receives medical or physical health care, such as a hospital. Indicate "psychiatric hospital" if the child is in a facility that provides emotional or psychological health care and is licensed or accredited as a hospital. Indicate "runaway" if the child has left, without authorization, the home or facility where the child was placed. Indicate "whereabouts unknown" if the child is not in the physical custody of the title IV-E agency or person or institution with whom the child has been placed, the child's whereabouts are unknown, and the title IV-E agency does not consider the child to have run away. Indicate "placed at home" if the child is home with the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) in preparation for the title IV-E agency to return the child home permanently.
