
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1355 - GENERAL
###### ยง 1355.44 Out-of-home care data file elements.
####### Location of living arrangement.

(5)Indicate whether each of the child's living arrangements reported in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is located within or outside of the reporting state or tribal service area or is outside of the country. Indicate "out-of-state or out-of-tribal service area" if the child's living arrangement is located outside of the reporting state or tribal service area but inside the United States. Indicate "in-state or in-tribal service area" if the child's living arrangement is located within the reporting state or tribal service area. Indicate "out-of-country" if the child's living arrangement is outside of the United States. Indicate "runaway or whereabouts unknown" if the child has run away from his or her living arrangement or the child's whereabouts are unknown. If the title IV-E agency indicates either "out-of-state or out-of-tribal service area" or "out-of-country" for the child's living arrangement, the title IV-E agency must complete paragraph (e)(6) of this section; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave paragraph (e)(6) of this section blank.
