
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1355 - GENERAL
###### ยง 1355.44 Out-of-home care data file elements.
####### Permanency planning,Permanency plan.

(f)-(1)Indicate each permanency plan established for the child. Indicate "reunify with parent(s) or legal guardian(s)" if the plan is to keep the child in out-of-home care for a limited time and the title IV-E agency is to work with the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s) to establish a stable family environment. Indicate "live with other relatives" if the plan is for the child to live permanently with a relative(s) (by biological, legal or marital connection) who is not the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s). Indicate "adoption" if the plan is to facilitate the child's adoption by relatives, foster parents, kin or other unrelated individuals. Indicate "guardianship" if the plan is to establish a new legal guardianship. Indicate "planned permanent living arrangement" if the plan is for the child to remain in foster care until the title IV-E agency's placement and care responsibility ends. The title IV-E agency must only select "planned permanent living arrangement" consistent with the requirements in section 475(5)(C)(i) of the Act. Indicate "permanency plan not established" if a permanency plan has not yet been established.
