
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart E - Cost Principles
###### General Provisions for Selected Items of Cost
####### ยง 75.474 Travel costs.
######## Lodging and subsistence.

(b)Costs incurred by employees and officers for travel, including costs of lodging, other subsistence, and incidental expenses, must be considered reasonable and otherwise allowable only to the extent such costs do not exceed charges normally allowed by the non-Federal entity in its regular operations as the result of the non-Federal entity's written travel policy. In addition, if these costs are charged directly to the Federal award documentation must justify that:

(1) Participation of the individual is necessary to the Federal award; and

(2) The costs are reasonable and consistent with non-Federal entity's established travel policy.

(c)(1) Temporary dependent care costs (as dependent is defined in 26 U.S.C. 152) above and beyond regular dependent care that directly results from travel to conferences is allowable provided that:

(i) The costs are a direct result of the individual's travel for the Federal award;

(ii) The costs are consistent with the non-Federal entity's documented travel policy for all entity travel; and

(iii) Are only temporary during the travel period.

(2) Travel costs for dependents are unallowable, except for travel of duration of six months or more with prior approval of the HHS awarding agency. See also ยง 75.432.

(d) In the absence of an acceptable, written non-Federal entity policy regarding travel costs, the rates and amounts established under 5 U.S.C. 5701-11 ("Travel and Subsistence Expenses: Mileage Allowance"), or by the Administrator of General Services, or by the President (or his or her designee) pursuant to any provisions of such subchapter must apply to travel under Federal awards (48 CFR 31.205-46(a)).
