
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1355 - GENERAL
###### ยง 1355.44 Out-of-home care data file elements.
####### Exit reason.

(3)Indicate the reason for each of the child's exits from out-of-home care. Indicate "not applicable" if the child has not exited out-of-home care. Indicate "reunify with parent(s)/legal guardian(s)" if the child was returned to his or her parent(s) or legal guardian(s) and the title IV-E agency no longer has placement and care responsibility. Indicate "live with other relatives" if the child exited to live with a relative (related by a biological, legal or marital connection) other than his or her parent(s) or legal guardian(s). Indicate "adoption" if the child was legally adopted. Indicate "emancipation" if the child exited care due to age. Indicate "guardianship" if the child exited due to a legal guardianship of the child. Indicate "runaway or whereabouts unknown" if the child ran away or the child's whereabouts were unknown at the time that the title IV-E agency's placement and care responsibility ends. Indicate "death of child" if the child died while in out-of-home care. Indicate "transfer to another agency" if placement and care responsibility for the child was transferred to another agency, either within or outside of the reporting state or tribal service area.
