
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1355 - GENERAL
###### ยง 1355.44 Out-of-home care data file elements.
####### Marital status of the adoptive parent(s) or guardian(s).

(1)Indicate the marital status of the adoptive parent(s) or legal guardian(s). Indicate "married couple" if the adoptive parents or legal guardians are considered united in matrimony according to applicable laws. Include common law marriage, where provided by applicable laws. Indicate "married but individually adopting or obtaining legal guardianship" if the adoptive parents or legal guardians are considered united in matrimony according to applicable laws, but are individually adopting or obtaining legal guardianship. Indicate "separated" if the foster parent is legally separated or is living apart from his or her spouse. Indicate "unmarried couple" if the adoptive parents or guardians are living together as a couple, but are not united in matrimony according to applicable laws. Use this response option even if only one person of the unmarried couple is the adoptive parent or legal guardian of the child. Indicate "single adult" if the adoptive parent or legal guardian is not married and is not living with another individual as part of a couple. If the response is "married couple" or "unmarried couple," the title IV-E agency also must complete paragraphs for the second adoptive parent or second legal guardian in paragraphs (h)(8) through (12) of this section; otherwise the title IV-E agency must leave those paragraphs blank.
