
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart F - Audit Requirements
###### Audits
####### ยง 75.501 Audit requirements.
######## For-profit subrecipient.

(h)Since this part does not apply to for-profit subrecipients, the pass-through entity is responsible for establishing requirements, as necessary, to ensure compliance by for-profit subrecipients. The agreement with the for-profit subrecipient must describe applicable compliance requirements and the for-profit subrecipient's compliance responsibility. Methods to ensure compliance for Federal awards made to for-profit subrecipients may include pre-award audits, monitoring during the agreement, and post-award audits. See also ยง 75.352.

(i) Recipients and subrecipients that are commercial organizations (including for-profit hospitals) have two options regarding audits:

(1) A financial related audit (as defined in the Government Auditing Standards, GPO Stock #020-000-00-265-4) of a particular award in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, in those cases where the recipient receives awards under only one HHS program; or, if awards are received under multiple HHS programs, a financial related audit of all HHS awards in accordance with Government Auditing Standards; or

(2) An audit that meets the requirements contained in this subpart.

(j) Commercial organizations that receive annual HHS awards totaling less than $750,000 are exempt from requirements for a non-Federal audit for that year, but records must be available for review by appropriate officials of Federal agencies.

(k) See also ยง 75.216.
