
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1356 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO TITLE IV-E
###### ยง 1356.60 Fiscal requirements (title IV-E).
####### Federal matching funds for other title IV-E agency administrative expenditures for foster care and adoption assistance under title IV-E.

(c)Federal financial participation is available at the rate of fifty percent (50%) for administrative expenditures necessary for the proper and efficient administration of the title IV-E plan. The State's cost allocation plan shall identify which costs are allocated and claimed under this program.

(1) The determination and redetermination of eligibility, fair hearings and appeals, rate setting and other costs directly related only to the administration of the foster care program under this part are deemed allowable administrative costs under this paragraph. They may not be claimed under any other section or Federal program.

(2) The following are examples of allowable administrative costs necessary for the administration of the foster care program:

(i) Referral to services;

(ii) Preparation for and participation in judicial determinations;

(iii) Placement of the child;

(iv) Development of the case plan;

(v) Case reviews;

(vi) Case management and supervision;

(vii) Recruitment and licensing of foster homes and institutions;

(viii) Rate setting; and

(ix) A proportionate share of related agency overhead.

(x) Costs related to data collection and reporting.

(3) Allowable administrative costs do not include the costs of social services provided to the child, the child's family or foster family which provide counseling or treatment to ameliorate or remedy personal problems, behaviors or home conditions.
