
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1357 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO TITLE IV-B
###### ยง 1357.15 Comprehensive child and family services plan requirements.
####### Scope.

(a)(1) The CFSP provides an opportunity to lay the groundwork for a system of coordinated, integrated, culturally relevant family focused services. This section describes the requirements for the development, implementation and phase-in of the five-year comprehensive child and family services plan (CFSP). The State's CFSP must meet the requirements of both of the following programs. The Indian Tribe's CFSP must meet the requirements of one or both of the following programs depending on the Tribe's eligibility:

(i) Child welfare services under title IV-B, subpart 1; and

(ii) Family preservation and family support services under title IV-B, subpart 2.

(2) For States only, the CFSP also must contain information on the following programs:

(i) The independent living program under title IV-E, section 477 of the Act; and

(ii) The Child Abuse and Neglect State grant program (known as the Basic State Grant) under the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA) (42 U.S.C. 5101 et. seq.).

(3) States must meet all requirements of this section except those that apply only to Indian Tribes. Indian Tribes must meet the requirements of this section only as specified.

(4) States and eligible Indian Tribes have the option to phase-in the requirements for a consolidated CFSP. The consolidated CFSP requirements must be in place by June 30, 1997 and meet the requirements of 45 CFR 1357.16.
