
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1357 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO TITLE IV-B
###### ยง 1357.15 Comprehensive child and family services plan requirements.
####### Eligibility for funds.

(b)(1) In order to receive funding under title IV-B, subparts 1 and 2, each State and eligible Indian Tribe must submit and have approved a consolidated, five-year Child and Family Services Plan (CFSP) and a CFS-101, Budget Request and Estimated Expenditure Report that meets the requirements under 45 CFR 1357.16.

(2) States and Indian Tribes that are consolidating the requirements for a CFSP in FY 1995, in accordance with ยง 1357.15(a), must submit the CFSP and a CFS-101 for FY 1995 and 1996 by June 30, 1995.

(3) States and eligible Indian Tribes choosing to phase-in the requirements for a consolidated CFSP in FY 1996 and 1997 must submit the CFSP, the CFS-101 for FY 1995 for subpart 1 and 2, and the CFS-101 for subpart 2 for FY 1996 by June 30, 1995.

(4) The CFSP will be approved only if the plan was developed jointly by ACF and the State (or the Indian Tribe), and only after broad consultation by the State (and the Indian Tribe) with a wide range of appropriate public and non-profit private agencies and community-based organizations with experience in administering programs of services for children and families (including family preservation and support services).

(5) By June 30, 1996, each grantee must submit and have approved the first Annual Progress and Services Report and a CFS 101 for FY 1997 that meets the statutory and regulatory requirements of title IV-B, subparts 1 and 2.

(6) The Annual Progress and Services Report will be approved if it was developed jointly by ACF and the State (or the Indian Tribe) and if it meets the requirements of 45 CFR 1357.16.

(7) The five-year CFSP for FYs 1995-1999 may be submitted in the format of the State's or the Indian Tribe's choice and must be submitted no later than June 30, 1995, to the appropriate ACF Regional Office.
