
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1357 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO TITLE IV-B
###### ยง 1357.15 Comprehensive child and family services plan requirements.
####### Baseline information.

(k)(1) For FY 1995, the State and the Indian Tribe must base the development of the CFSP vision, goals, objectives, and funding and service decisions on an analysis of available baseline information and any trends over time on indicators in the following areas: the well-being of children and families; the needs of children and families; the nature, scope, and adequacy of existing child and family and related social services. Additional and updated information on service needs and organizational capacities must be obtained throughout the five-year period to measure progress in accomplishing the goals and objectives cited in the CFSP. A description of how this process will continue to be carried out must be included in the CFSP, and any revisions should be provided in the Annual Progress and Services Report.

(2) The State must collect and analyze State-wide information on family preservation and family support services currently available to families and children, including the nature and scope of existing public and privately funded family support and family preservation services; the extent to which each service is available and being provided in different geographic areas and to different types of families; and important gaps in service, including mismatches between available services and family needs as identified through baseline data and the consultation process. Other services which impact on the ability to preserve and support families may be included in the assessment. The Indian Tribe must collect and analyze information on family preservation and family support services currently available within their service delivery area including the information in this paragraph as appropriate. An Indian Tribe may submit documentation prepared to satisfy the requirements of other Federal child welfare grants, or contracts (such as the section 638 reporting form), along with a descriptive addendum addressing specifically the family preservation and family support services available.

(3) The CFSP must include a summary of the information used in developing the plan; an explanation of how this information and analysis were used in developing the goals, objectives, and funding and service decisions, including decisions about geographic targeting and service mix; a description of how information will be used to measure progress over the five-year period; and how this information will be used to facilitate the coordination of services.
