
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1357 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO TITLE IV-B
###### ยง 1357.15 Comprehensive child and family services plan requirements.
####### Staff training, technical assistance, and evaluation.

(t)(1) The State's CFSP must include a staff development and training plan in support of the goals and objectives in the CFSP which addresses both of the title IV-B programs covered by the plan. This training plan also must be combined with the training plan under title IV-E as required by 45 CFR 1356.60(b)(2). Training must be an on-going activity and must include content from various disciplines and knowledge bases relevant to child and family services policies, programs and practices. Training content must also support the cross-system coordination consultation basic to the development of the CFSP.

(2) The State's CFSP must describe the technical assistance activities that will be undertaken in support of the goals and objectives in the plan.

(3) The State's CFSP must describe any evaluation and research activities underway or planned with which the State agency is involved or participating and which are related to the goals and objectives in the plan.
