
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1357 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO TITLE IV-B
###### ยง 1357.25 Requirements for eligibility for additional payments under section 427.

(a) For any fiscal year after FY 1979 in which a sum in excess of $141,000,000 is appropriated under Section 420 of the Act, a State is not eligible for payment of an amount greater than the amount for which it would be eligible if the appropriation were equal to $141,000,000 unless the State complies with the requirements of Section 427(a) of the Act.

(b) In meeting the requirements for the inventory and statewide information system in sections 427 (a)(1) and (2)(A) of the Act, the inventory and statewide information system must include those children under the placement and care responsibility of the State title IV-B or IV-E agencies. At the State's discretion, other children may be included. The six month requirement in section 427(a)(1) and the twelve month requirement in section 427(a)(2)(A) of the Act must also be met.

(c) If, for each of any two consecutive fiscal years after FY 1979, there is appropriated under Section 420 of the Act a sum equal to or greater than $266,000,000, a State's allotment amount for any fiscal year after two such consecutive fiscal years shall be reduced to an amount equal to what the allotment amount would have been for FY 1979 unless the State has implemented the requirements of section 427(b) of the Act.

(d) In meeting the requirements of section 427(a)(2)(B) of the Act for dispositional hearings the State agency must meet the requirements of section 475(5)(C) of the Act and 45 CFR 1356.21(e).

(e) A State may appeal a final decision by ACYF that the State has not met the requirements of this section and section 427 of the Act to the Department Grant Appeals Board under the provisions of 45 CFR part 16.
