
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XIII - Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### Subchapter G - The Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Foster Care Maintenance Payments, Adoption Assistance, and Child and Family Services
##### PART 1357 - REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO TITLE IV-B
###### ยง 1357.50 Direct payments to Indian Tribal organizations (title IV-B, subpart 2, family preservation and support services).
####### Eligibility for funds: FY 1996 through FY 1998.

(d)(1) ACF will make grants to additional Indian Tribes in Fys 1996 through 1998 in the event that there are increased appropriations.

(2) Allotments will be calculated in Fys 1996, 1997, and 1998 as required in section 433 of the Act. Those Indian Tribes in each year whose allotment is at least $10,000 will be notified of their eligibility to apply.

(3) In order to receive funds, additional Indian Tribes which become eligible for grants in FY 1996, 1997, and 1998 must submit either a five year Child and Family Services Plan (CFSP) that meets the applicable requirements of 45 CFR 1357.15 or an application for planning funds by June 30 of the year in which they first become eligible for grants. Those Indian Tribes which submitted an application for planning funds in their first year of funding must submit a five year CFSP that meets the applicable requirements of 45 CFR 1357.15 by June 30 of the second year they receive funding. For example, in order to receive funds, an Indian Tribe which becomes eligible to receive funding beginning in FY 1996 must submit either an application for planning funds or a CFSP by June 30, 1996. If the Indian Tribe submitted an application for planning funds in FY 1996, they must submit a CFSP by June 30, 1997.

(4) All Indian Tribes will be Federally reimbursed at 75 percent of allowable expenditures. Federal funds without match are available in the first year of receipt of funds for additional Indian Tribes meeting the following criteria:

(i) Submittal of an application for planning funds, and not a five year CFSP;

(ii) Receipt of an initial award in FY 1996 or 1997 or 1998; and

(iii) A proposal to spend the entire grant in the first year on planning.
