
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVI - Legal Services Corporation
#### PART 1602 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### ยง 1602.9 Timing and responses to requests for records.
###### Referral.

(c)(1) If the processing Office determines that the other Office or Federal agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, the processing Office will typically refer the responsibility for responding to the request for that record to the other Office or Federal agency. Ordinarily, the Office that originated the record is presumed to be the best Office to make the disclosure determination. However, if the Offices or Federal agency jointly agree that the processing Office is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be released by the processing Office after consultation with the other Office or Federal agency.

(2) Whenever a referral occurs, the processing Office must document the referral, maintain a copy of the record that it refers, and notify the requester of the referral, informing the requester of the name(s) of the Office or Federal agency to which the record was referred, including that Office's or Federal agency's FOIA contact information.

(d)(1) In unusual circumstances, as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, LSC may extend the time limit for up to 10 working days by written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which LSC expects to send its determination.

(2) LSC may also provide an opportunity to the requester to narrow the request. In addition, to aid the requester, LSC shall make available a FOIA Public Liaison, who shall assist in the resolution of any disputes between the requester and LSC, and shall notify the requester of his right to seek dispute resolution services from the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration's Office of Government Information Services.
