
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVI - Legal Services Corporation
#### PART 1602 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### ยง 1602.9 Timing and responses to requests for records.
###### Expedited treatment.

(e)(1)Requests and appeals will be taken out of order and given expedited treatment whenever the requester demonstrates a compelling need. A compelling need means:

(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited treatment could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;

(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged LSC activity and the request is made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information;

(iii) The loss of substantial due process rights; or

(iv) A matter of widespread and exceptional media interest raising questions about LSC's integrity which may affect public confidence in LSC.

(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at the time of the initial request for records or at any later time. For a prompt determination, a request for expedited processing must be properly addressed and marked and received by LSC pursuant to ยง 1602.8.

(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement demonstrating a compelling need and explaining in detail the basis for requesting expedited processing. The requester must certify that the statement is true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief.

(4) Within 10 calendar days of receiving a request for expedited processing, the Chief FOIA Officer, Office of Inspector General Legal Counsel or their designees shall decide whether to grant the request and shall notify the requester of the decision. If a request for expedited treatment is granted, the request shall be given priority and shall be processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, the requester may appeal in writing to LSC's President or Inspector General in the format described in ยง 1602.13(a). Any appeal of a denial for expedited treatment shall be acted on expeditiously by LSC.
