
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVI - Legal Services Corporation
#### PART 1602 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### ยง 1602.13 Appeals of denials.
###### Toll-free:

(vi)1-877-684-6448.

(2) Dispute resolution through the Office of Government Information Services is a voluntary process. If LSC agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services provided by the Office of Government Information Services, it will actively engage in the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.

(d) LSC will send its decision to the requester within 20 business days after receipt of the appeal, unless an additional period is justified due to unusual circumstances, as described in ยง 1602.9, in which case LSC may extend the time limit for up to 10 working days by written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which LSC expects to send its determination. The decision of the President or the Inspector General shall constitute the final action of LSC. All such decisions shall be treated as final opinions under ยง 1602.5(b)(1).

(e) On an appeal, the President or designee shall consult with the OIG prior to reversing in whole or in part the denial of any request for records or portions of records which originated with the OIG, or which contain information which originated with the OIG, but which are maintained by LSC. The Inspector General or designee shall consult with the President prior to reversing in whole or in part the denial of any request for records or portions of records which originated with LSC, or which contain information which originated with LSC, but which are maintained by the OIG.
