
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Subpart F - Audit Requirements
###### Federal Agencies
####### ยง 75.513 Responsibilities.
######## Oversight agency for audit.

(b) Oversight agency for audit responsibilities. An auditee who does not have a designated cognizant agency for audit will be under the general oversight of the Federal agency determined in accordance with ยง 75.2A Federal agency with oversight for an auditee may reassign oversight to another Federal agency that agrees to be the oversight agency for audit. Within 30 calendar days after any reassignment, both the old and the new oversight agency for audit must provide notice of the change to the FAC, the auditee, and, if known, the auditor. The oversight agency for audit:

(1) Must provide technical advice to auditees and auditors as requested.

(2) May assume all or some of the responsibilities normally performed by a cognizant agency for audit.

(c) HHS awarding agency responsibilities. The HHS awarding agency must perform the following for the Federal awards it makes (See also the requirements of ยง 75.210):

(1) Ensure that audits are completed and reports are received in a timely manner and in accordance with the requirements of this part.

(2) Provide technical advice and counsel to auditees and auditors as requested.

(3) Follow-up on audit findings to ensure that the recipient takes appropriate and timely corrective action. As part of audit follow-up, the HHS awarding agency must:

(i) Issue a management decision as prescribed in ยง 75.521;

(ii) Monitor the recipient taking appropriate and timely corrective action;
