
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVI - Legal Services Corporation
#### PART 1627 - SUBGRANTS
##### ยง 1627.5 Applicability of restrictions, recordkeeping, and recipient priorities; private attorney involvement subgrants.
###### Recordkeeping.

(c)A recipient must be able to account for how its subrecipients spend LSC funds or use property or services funded in whole or in part with LSC funds. A subrecipient must provide to the recipient records as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) A subrecipient that handles matters as defined at 45 CFR 1635.2(b) must maintain adequate records to demonstrate that its attorneys and paralegals used the LSC funds or property or services funded in whole or in part with LSC funds:

(i) To carry out the activities described in the subgrant agreement; and

(ii) Consistent with the restrictions set forth at 45 CFR part 1610.

(2) A subrecipient that handles cases as defined at 45 CFR 1635.2(a):

(i) Must require its attorneys and paralegals to maintain records for each case that show the amount of time spent on the case and the activity conducted by date, and a unique client name or case number; and

(ii) Either the subrecipient or the recipient must maintain records for each case that show the problem type and the closing code for the case.

(iii) This requirement does not apply to subrecipients described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.

(3) A subrecipient who handles both cases and matters must maintain the types of records described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2).
