
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Appendix I to Part 75 - Full Text of Notice of Funding Opportunity

The full text of the notice of funding opportunity is organized in sections. The required format outlined in this appendix indicates immediately following the title of each section whether that section is required in every announcement or is an HHS awarding agency option. The format is designed so that similar types of information will appear in the same sections in announcements of different Federal funding opportunities. Toward that end, there is text in each of the following sections to describe the types of information that an HHS awarding agency would include in that section of an actual announcement.

An HHS awarding agency that wishes to include information that the format does not specifically discuss may address that subject in whatever section(s) is most appropriate. For example, if an HHS awarding agency chooses to address performance goals in the announcement, it might do so in the funding opportunity description, the application content, or the reporting requirements.

Similarly, when this format calls for a type of information to be in a particular section, an HHS awarding agency wishing to address that subject in other sections may elect to repeat the information in those sections or use cross references between the sections (there should be hyperlinks for cross-references in any electronic versions of the announcement). For example, an HHS awarding agency may want to include in Section A information about the types of non-Federal entities who are eligible to apply. The format specifies a standard location for that information in Section C.1 but that does not preclude repeating the information in Section I or creating a cross reference between Sections A and C.1, as long as a potential applicant can find the information quickly and easily from the standard location.

The sections of the full text of the announcement are described in the following paragraphs.
