
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVI - Legal Services Corporation
#### PART 1641 - DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION AND REMOVAL OF RECIPIENT AUDITORS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 1641.4 Duration of debarment, suspension and removal.
####### Suspension.

(b)(1) The debarring official may determine that a cause for suspension exists, but that an investigation or other legal or debarment proceeding should be completed before proceeding to a debarment. Suspension shall be for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or other legal or debarment proceedings, including a proceeding conducted by the OIG, a law enforcement or other government agency, an investigative or audit official from another OIG, a court, or a state licensing body or other organization with authority over IPAs.

(2) If debarment proceedings are not initiated within 12 months after the date of the suspension notice, the suspension shall be terminated unless an official or organization conducting a proceeding referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section requests its extension in writing. In such cases, the suspension may be extended up to an additional six months. In no event may a suspension be imposed for more than 18 months, unless debarment proceedings have been initiated within that period.

(3) The OIG shall notify the appropriate official or organization conducting a proceeding referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if any, of the suspension within 10 days of its implementation, and shall notify such official or organization of an impending termination of a suspension at least 30 days before the 12-month period expires to allow an opportunity to request an extension.

(4) The limit on the duration of a suspension in paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be waived by the affected IPA.
