
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVI - Legal Services Corporation
#### PART 1641 - DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION AND REMOVAL OF RECIPIENT AUDITORS
##### Subpart C - Suspension
###### ยง 1641.15 Response to notice of proposed suspension.

(a) The IPA shall have 10 days from receipt of the notice within which to respond.

(b) The response shall be in writing and may include information and argument in opposition to the proposed suspension, including any additional specific information pertaining to the possible causes for suspension, and information and argument in mitigation of the proposed period of suspension.

(c) The response may request a meeting with the OIG official identified in the notice to permit the IPA to discuss issues of fact or law relating to the proposed suspension, or to otherwise resolve the pending matters.

(1) Any such meeting shall take such form as the debarring official deems appropriate and shall be held within 10 days of the response.

(2) No meeting will be held if a law enforcement official, an investigative or audit official from another OIG, a state licensing body or other organization with authority over IPAs, or a governmental agency has advised in writing that the substantial interest of a governmental unit would be prejudiced by such a meeting and the debarring official determines that the suspension is based on the same facts as the pending legal proceedings referenced by the law enforcement official.

(d) Failure to respond to the notice shall be deemed an admission of the existence of the cause(s) for suspension set forth in the notice and an acceptance of the period of suspension. In such circumstances, the OIG may proceed to a final decision without further proceedings.
