
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVI - Legal Services Corporation
#### PART 1641 - DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION AND REMOVAL OF RECIPIENT AUDITORS
##### Subpart E - Decisions
###### ยง 1641.24 Appeal and reconsideration of debarring official decisions.
####### Reconsideration.

(c)(1) A debarred, suspended or removed IPA may submit a request to the debarring official to reconsider the debarment, suspension or removal decision, reduce the period of debarment or removal, or terminate the suspension.

(2) Such requests shall be in writing and supported by documentation that the requested action is justified by:

(i) In the case of suspension, reversal of the conviction or civil judgment upon which the suspension was based;

(ii) Newly discovered material evidence;

(iii) Bona fide change in ownership or management;

(iv) Elimination of other causes for which the debarment, suspension or removal was imposed; or

(v) Other reasons the debarring official deems appropriate.

(3) A request for reconsideration of a suspension which was based a conviction, civil judgment, or sanction that has been reversed may be filed at any time.

(4) Requests for reconsideration based on other grounds may only be filed during the period commencing 60 days after the debarring official's decision imposing the debarment or suspension. Only one such request may be filed in any twelve month period.

(5) The debarring official's decision on a request for reconsideration is subject to the appeal procedure set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
