
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVII - National Commission on Libraries and Information Science
#### PART 1703 - GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE ACT
##### Subpart B - Procedures Governing Decisions About Meetings
###### ยง 1703.203 Decision to close meeting.

(a) Commission members may decide before the meeting to close to public observation a meeting or portion or portions thereof, or to withhold information pertaining to such meeting, only if a majority of the members vote on the record to take such action. No proxy votes on this action shall be allowed. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. If a decision is made to close a portion or portions of a meeting or a series of meetings, the Commission shall prepare a full written explanation of the closure action together with a list naming all persons expected to attend the meeting and identifying their affiliation.

(b) For every meeting or portion thereof which Commission members have voted to close, the Chairman of NCLIS shall certify that, in his or her opinion, the meeting may properly be closed to the public. In addition, the Chairman shall state each relevant exemptive provision as set forth in ยง 1703.202(a). A copy of the Chairman's certification, together with a statement from the Chairman setting forth the time and place of the meeting and listing the persons present, shall be retained by the Commission.

(c) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a portion of a meeting requests that the Commission close such portion to the public for any of the reasons referred to in ยง 1703.202 (a)(5), (6), or (7), the Commission members, upon request of any of the Commissioners, shall decide by recorded vote whether to close such portion. If a closure decision is made, the Commission shall prepare a full written explanation of the closure action together with a list naming all persons expected to attend the meeting and identifying their affiliation.
