
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Appendix I to Part 75 - Full Text of Notice of Funding Opportunity
###### 2. Review and Selection Process-Required.,e.g.,,e.g.,,e.g.,

This section may vary in the level of detail provided. The announcement must list any program policy or other factors or elements, other than merit criteria, that the selecting official may use in selecting applications for Federal award (geographical dispersion, program balance, or diversity). The HHS awarding agency may also include other appropriate details. For example, this section may indicate who is responsible for evaluation against the merit criteria (peers external to the HHS awarding agency or HHS awarding agency personnel) and/or who makes the final selections for Federal awards. If there is a multi-phase review process (an external panel advising internal HHS awarding agency personnel who make final recommendations to the deciding official), the announcement may describe the phases. It also may include: the number of people on an evaluation panel and how it operates, the way reviewers are selected, reviewer qualifications, and the way that conflicts of interest are avoided. With respect to electronic methods for providing information about funding opportunities or accepting applicants' submissions of information, each HHS awarding agency is responsible for compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d).

In addition, if the HHS awarding agency permits applicants to nominate suggested reviewers of their applications or suggest those they feel may be inappropriate due to a conflict of interest, that information should be included in this section.
