
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVIII - Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
#### PART 1801 - HARRY S. TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Duration of Scholarship
###### ยง 1801.63 Scholar Accountability.

(a) A Scholar selected after January 2005 must be employed in public service for three of the seven years following completion of his or her Foundation funded graduate education.

(b) Following completion of Foundation funded graduate education, Scholars must submit a report to the Foundation by July 15 of each year. This report will include the Scholar's current contact information as well as a brief description of his or her employment during the past twelve months. This reporting requirement ends when the Foundation determines that a Scholar has reported three years of public service employment and the Foundation notifies him or her that he or she no longer is required to submit reports. Scholars who fail for two consecutive years to submit the required report to the Foundation will be considered to have failed to complete the three year public service requirement of paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) A Scholar who fails to be employed in public service for three out of the first seven years following completion of his or her Foundation funded graduate education must repay to the Foundation an amount equal to:

(1) All of the Scholarship stipends received,

(2) Interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of receipt of each payment until repayment is made to the Foundation, and

(3) Reasonable collection fees.

(d)(1) The repayment obligation of paragraph (c) of this section accrues on the first July 15 on which it becomes impossible for a Scholar to fulfill the three year public service requirement of paragraph (a) of this section. For example, the repayment obligation would accrue on July 15 of the sixth year following completion of Foundation funded graduate education for a Scholar who has been employed in the public service for only one of those six years.

(2) The Foundation will send to the Scholar's last known address a notice that his or her repayment obligation has accrued. The failure, however, of the Foundation to send, or the Scholar to receive, such a notice does not alter or delay the Scholar's repayment obligation.

(e) The Foundation may employ whatever remedies are available to it to collect any unpaid obligation accruing under this ยง 1801.63.

(f) Upon application by the Scholar showing good cause for doing so, the Foundation may waive or modify the repayment obligation established by paragraph (c) of this section.
