
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVIII - Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
#### PART 1803 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP
##### ยง 1803.10 Communications.

(a) The Foundation shall take appropriate steps to assure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can effectively communicate with the Foundation and obtain information as to the existence and availability of the Foundation's programs and activities.

(1) The Foundation shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in the scholarship interview process or other programs or activities conducted by the Foundation.

(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the Foundation shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.

(ii) The Foundation need not provide individually prescribed devices or other devices of a personal nature.

(2) When the Foundation communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, the Foundation shall use, for persons with impaired hearing, a telecommunication device for deaf persons or equally effective telecommunication device.

(b) The Foundation shall take appropriate steps to provide individuals with handicaps with information regarding their section 504 rights under the Foundation's programs or activities.

(c) This section does not require the Foundation to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where Foundation personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter a program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Foundation has the burden of proving that compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Executive Secretary after considering all Foundation resources available for use in the funding and operation of a conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Foundation shall take other action not resulting in such an alteration or such burdens, but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the programs or activities.
