
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVIII - Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
#### PART 1803 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP
##### ยง 1803.7 Program accessibility: Existing facilities.

(a) The Foundation shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not necessarily require the Foundation to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps, but no qualified individual with handicaps shall be denied the benefit of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any of the Foundation's programs and activities because any of the Foundation's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps.

(b) When the Foundation uses facilities leased or otherwise provided by the General Services Administration (GSA), it shall request GSA to make any structural changes that the Foundation determines are required to provide necessary accessibility for individuals with handicaps, and shall inform that agency of any complaints regarding accessibility by individuals with handicaps.

(c) The Foundation periodically uses meeting rooms or similar facilities made available by non-federal entities. In any instances in which such temporarily used facilities are not readily accessible to qualified individuals with handicaps, the Foundation shall make alternative arrangements so that such qualified individuals with handicaps can participate fully in the Foundation's activity.

(d) This section does not require the Foundation to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administration burdens. In those circumstances where Foundation personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter a program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Foundation has the burden of proving that compliance with paragraph (a) of this section would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Executive Secretary after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Foundation shall take other action not resulting in such an alteration or such burdens, but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the programs or activities.
