
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XVIII - Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
#### PART 1803 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP
##### ยง 1803.11 Compliance procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Foundation.

(b) The Foundation shall process complaints alleging violations of ยง 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).

(c) Responsibility for implementation and operation of this section shall be vested in the Executive Secretary.

(d) The Foundation shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The Foundation may extend this time period for good cause.

(e) If the Foundation receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.

(f) The Foundation shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is used by the Foundation that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.

(g) The Foundation shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation within 90 days of the receipt of a complete complaint over which it has jurisdiction. Notification must be in a letter, and must include-

(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation discovered; and

(3) A notice of the right to appeal.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by paragraph (f) of this section. The Foundation may extend this time for good cause.

(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the General Counsel.

(j) The Foundation shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 90 days of the receipt of the request. If the Foundation determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have 90 days from the date it receives the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.

(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.

(l) The Foundation may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other federal agencies, but may not delegate to another agency the authority for making the final determination.
