
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXI - Commission of Fine Arts
#### PART 2102 - MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES OF THE COMMISSION
##### Subpart B - Procedures on Submissions of Plans or Designs
###### § 2102.12 Responses of Commission to submissions.

(a) The Commission before disposing of any project presented to it may ask for the proposed plans or designs to be changed in certain particulars and resubmitted, or for the opportunity to review plans, designs, and specifications in certain particulars at a later stage in their development, and to see samples or mock-ups of materials or components; and when appropriate in the matter of a statue or other object of art, the Commission may ask for the opportunity to see a larger or full-scale model. All conclusions, advice, or comments of the Commission which lead to further development of plans, designs, and specifications or to actual carrying out of the project are made in contemplation that such steps will conform in all substantial respects with the plans or designs submitted to the Commission, including only such changes as the Commission may have recommended; any other changes in plans or designs require further submission to the Commission.

(b) In the case of plans submitted with a permit application subject to the Old Georgetown Act (§ 2101.1(c)), if the Commission does not respond with a report on such plans within forty-five days after their receipt by the Commission, its approval shall be assumed and a permit may be issued by the government of the District of Columbia.

(1) In the case of a concept application submitted for a project subject to the Old Georgetown Act (§ 2101.1(c)), the Commission's approval is valid for two years. At the end of the two years, the original owner for the project may submit a new concept application requesting to extend the approval for one more year. The Commission, however, may decline to extend its approval.

(2) [Reserved]

(c) In the case of plans submitted with a permit application subject to the Shipstead-Luce Act (§ 2101.1(b)), if the Commission does not respond with a report on such plans within thirty days after their receipt by the Commission, its approval shall be assumed and a permit may be issued by the government of the District of Columbia.

(1) In the case of a concept application for a project subject to the Shipstead-Luce Act (§ 2101.1(b)), the Commission's approval is valid for two years. At the end of the two years, the original owner for the project may submit a concept application requesting to extend the approval for one more year. The Commission, however, may decline to extend its approval.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) In the event that any project or item within the Commission's purview under 2101.1 has not progressed to a substantial start of construction or production within four years following the Commission meeting date on which the final design was approved, the Commission's approval is suspended. The plans or designs previously approved or alternative plans or designs, may thereupon be resubmitted for Commission review. The Commission's subsequent approval, if granted, shall remain in effect for four years.
