
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXI - Commission of Fine Arts
#### PART 2102 - MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES OF THE COMMISSION
##### Subpart B - Procedures on Submissions of Plans or Designs
###### ยง 2102.10 Timing, scope and content of submissions for proposed projects involving land, buildings, or other structures.

(a) A party proposing a project which is within the purview of the Commission's functions under ยง 2101.1 (a), (b), or (c) should make a submission when concept plans for the project are ready but before detailed plans and specifications or working drawings are prepared. In order to assure that a submission will be considered at the next scheduled meeting of the Commission, it should be delivered to the Commissions offices not later than ten (10) working days before the meeting; if it is a project subject to review first by the Georgetown Board, not later than ten (10) working days before the Georgetown Board meeting. The Commission will attempt to consider a submission which is not made in conformity with this schedule, but it reserves the right to postpone consideration until its next subsequent meeting.

(b)(1) Each submission should state or disclose:

(i) The nature, location, and justification of the project, including any relevant historical information about the building or other structure to be altered or razed;

(ii) The identity of the owner or developer (or for public buildings, the governmental unit with authority to approve or act upon the plans) and of the architect;

(iii) The functions, uses, and purpose of the project; and

(iv) Other information to the extent it is relevant, such as area studies, site plans, building and landscape schematics, renderings, models, depictions or samples of exterior materials and components, and photographs of existing conditions to be affected by the project.

(2) Alternative proposals may be included within one submission. The information submitted shall be sufficiently complete, detailed, and accurate as will enable the Commission to judge the ultimate character, siting, height, bulk, and appearance of the project, in its entirety, including the grounds within the scope of the project, its setting and environs, and its effect upon existing conditions and upon historical and prevailing architectural values. Record drawings and photographs will be submitted by the applicant for a permanent Commission record of the submission.

(c) If a project consists of a first or intermediate phase of a contemplated larger program of construction, similar information about the eventual plans should accompany the submission. Even though a submission relates only to approval for razing or removal of a building or other structure, the project will be regarded as part of phased development, and the submission is subject to such requirement.

(d) If the project involves a statue, fountain or a monument within the purview of the Commission under ยง 2101.1 (a)(2), partial submissions should be made as appropriate to permit the Commission to advise on each aspect of the project as prescribed by the Commemorative Works Act (Pub. L. 99-652, H.R. 4378, 40 U.S.C. 1001).

(e) The Commission staff will advise owners and architects concerning the scope and content of particular submissions. Material relevant to the functions and policies of the Commission varies greatly depending upon the nature, size, and importance of the project to be reviewed by the Commission. Also, it is the policy of the Commission not to impose unnecessary burdens or delays on persons who make submissions to the Commission. However, the Commission at any meeting may decline to reach a conclusion about a proposed project if it deems the submission materials inadequate for its purposes, or it may condition its conclusions on the submission of further information to it at a later meeting or, in its discretion, may delegate final action to the staff.

(f) The Commission staff, members of the Georgetown Board, interested members of the public, or the submitting party may augment any submission by additional relevant information made available to the Commission before or at the meeting where the submission is considered. The staff should also make information available concerning prior considerations or conclusions of the Commission regarding the same project or earlier versions of it.
