
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXI - Commission of Fine Arts
#### PART 2102 - MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES OF THE COMMISSION
##### Subpart B - Procedures on Submissions of Plans or Designs
###### ยง 2102.14 Consent Calendar and Appendices procedures.

(a) The Commission shall review applications scheduled on its Meeting Agenda, Consent Calendar, or Appendices (Old Georgetown Act and Shipstead-Luce Act). Cases on the Meeting Agenda will be heard by the Commission in open session. Cases on the Consent Calendar or Appendices will be acted upon based on submitted materials and staff recommendations without further public comment.

(b) The Commission shall release the proposed Meeting Agenda, and the Consent Calendar and Appendices with staff recommendation to the public not later than five (5) calendar days before the meeting.

(c) The scheduling of cases on the Meeting Agenda, Consent Calendar, and Appendices shall be at the sole discretion of the Commission and staff, and nothing shall preclude the Commission from amending or changing the scheduling at a public meeting.

(d) The staff shall prepare a written recommendation for each case on the Consent Calendar or Appendices the Commission will review.

(e) The Commission shall conduct public review of cases in accordance with a proposed Agenda released to the public before the Commission meeting. The Commission shall dispose of other cases by adoption of a Consent Calendar and Appendices, as appropriate. The Commission may amend the Meeting Agenda, Consent Calendar and Appendices at the public meeting as it may deem appropriate.

(f) An application may be placed on the Consent Calendar if the applicant and staff agree that the proposed work has no known objection by an affected government agency, neighborhood organization, historic preservation organization, or affected person. Any relevant terms or modifications agreed upon by the applicant and staff may be included as conditions of the approval.

(g) At the request of any Commission member, the Chairperson may remove any case from the Consent Calendar and place it on the Meeting Agenda for individual consideration by the Commission at the meeting. A request from any other group or person to remove a case from the Consent Calendar should be made to the staff in advance of the meeting and shall be considered as a preliminary matter at the meeting.

(h) The Chairperson may also remove any case from a duly noticed Meeting Agenda and place it on the Consent Calendar, provided there is no objection from the applicant, any Commission member, or any affected group or person present and wishing to comment on the case.

(i) The Commission may approve the Consent Calendar and Appendices on a voice vote.
