
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXI - Commission of Fine Arts
#### PART 2105 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### Subpart D - Timing of Responses to Requests
###### ยง 2105.14 What is multitrack processing and how does it affect your request?

(a) Processing tracks are used to distinguish simple requests from more complex ones on the basis of the estimated number of workdays needed to process the request.

(b) In determining the number of workdays needed to process the request, the Agency considers factors such as the number of pages involved in processing the request or the need for consultations.

(c) The basic processing tracks are designated as follows:

(1) Simple: Requests in this track will take between one to five workdays to process;

(2) Normal: Requests in this track will take between six to twenty workdays to process;

(3) Complex: Requests in this track will take between twenty-one workdays and sixty workdays to process; or

(4) Voluminous: Requests in this track involve very complex processing challenges, which may include a large number of potentially responsive records, and will take over sixty workdays to process.

(d) The Agency also has a specific processing track for requests that are granted expedited processing under the standards in ยง 2105.18. These requests will be processed as soon as practicable.

(e) The Agency must advise you of the track into which your request falls and, when appropriate, will offer you an opportunity to narrow your request so that it can be placed in a different processing track. If you request placement in a particular processing track but the Agency places you in a different processing track, the Agency will provide you with an explanation of why you were not placed in the processing track you requested.
