
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXI - Commission of Fine Arts
#### PART 2106 - RULES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH 5 U.S.C. 552a, THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 2106.2 Requests for access.
###### Procedures.

(b)(1) Content of the request. The request for access to a record in a system of records shall be addressed to the Secretary, at the address cited above; and shall name the system of records or contain a description (as concise as possible) of such system of records. The request should state that the request is pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974. In the absence of such a statement, if the request is for a record pertaining to the requester maintained by CFA in a system of records, the request will be presumed to be made under the Privacy Act of 1974. The requester should include any other information which may assist in the rapid identification of the record for which access is being requested (e.g., maiden name, dates of employment, etc.).

(2) Requirements for identification will normally be limited to the presentation of any standard picture and signature or signature identification card, such as driver's license, so that a comparison of the signature and the signature on the original request may be made. The appearing individual will be read paragraph (3), subsection (i) to title 5 U.S.C. 552a which specifies the penalty for knowingly or willfully requesting or obtaining a record concerning an individual from an agency under false pretenses and asked to sign a statement attesting to the fact that he or she understands the paragraph and that he or she is, in fact, the individual who made the request (or the individual authorized to receive the disclosure by the requesting individual). This signature will be compared with the other two. If the appearing individual is other than the requesting individual, then he or she must also present a letter of introduction signed by the requesting individual so that the comparison of signature may be made.
