
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXI - Commission of Fine Arts
#### PART 2106 - RULES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH 5 U.S.C. 552a, THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 2106.5 Requests to amend records.
###### Procedures.

(b)(1)(i) The request to amend a record in a system of records shall be addressed to the Secretary. Included in the request shall be the name of the system and a brief description of the record proposed for amendment. In the event the request to amend the record is the result of the individual's having gained access to the record as set forth above, copies of previous correspondence between the requester and CFA will serve in lieu of a separate description of the record.

(ii) Individuals desiring assistance in the preparation of a request to amend a record should contact the Secretary at the address cited above.

(iii) The exact portion of the record the individual seeks to have amended should be clearly indicated. If possible, the proposed alternative language should also be set forth, or, at a minimum, the facts which the individual believes are not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete, should be set forth with such particularity as to permit CFA not only to understand the individual's basis for the request, but also to make an appropriate amendment to the record.

(iv) The request must also set forth the reasons why the individual believes his record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. In order to avoid the retention by CFA of personal information merely to permit the verification of records, the burden of persuading CFA to amend a record will be upon the individual. The individual must furnish sufficient facts to persuade the official in charge of the system of the inaccuracy, irrelevancy, timeliness, or incompleteness of the record.
