
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2505 - RULES IMPLEMENTING THE GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE ACT
##### ยง 2505.2 Definitions.
###### Meeting

(e)means the deliberations of at least a quorum of the Corporation's Board of Directors where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Corporation business. A meeting may be conducted under this part through telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all participants may communicate with each other. The term meeting includes a portion thereof. The term meeting does not include:

(1) Notation voting or similar consideration of business, whether by circulation of material to the Members individually in writing or by a polling of the members individually by telephone.

(2) Action by a quorum of the Board to-

(i) Open or to close a meeting or to release or to withhold information pursuant to ยง 2505.5;

(ii) Set an agenda for a proposed meeting;

(iii) Call a meeting on less than seven days' notice as permitted by ยง 2505.6(b); or

(iv) Change the subject-matter or the determinations to open or to close a publicly announced meeting under ยง 2505.7(b).

(3) A gathering for the purpose of receiving briefings from the Corporation's staff or expert consultants, provided that Members of the Board do not engage in deliberations at such sessions that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Corporation business on such matters.

(4) A gathering for the purpose of engaging in preliminary discussions or exchanges of views that do not effectively predetermine official Corporation action on a particular matter.
