
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2506 - COLLECTION OF DEBTS
##### Subpart A - Introduction
###### ยง 2506.2 Under what authority does the Corporation issue these regulations?

(a) The Corporation is issuing the regulations in this part under the authority of 31 U.S.C. chapter 37, 3701-3720A and 3720D. These sections implement the requirements of the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended by the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996.

(b) The Corporation is also issuing the regulations in this part to conform to the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), which prescribe standards for handling the Federal Government's claims for money or property. The FCCS are issued by the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Treasury at 31 CFR chapter IX, parts 900-904. The Corporation adopts those standards without change. The regulations in this part supplement the FCCS by prescribing procedures necessary and appropriate for the Corporation's operations.

(c) The Corporation is also issuing the regulations in this part to conform to the standards for handling Administrative Wage Garnishment processing by the Federal Government. The standards are issued by the Treasury at 31 CFR 285.11. The Corporation adopts those standards without change. The regulations in this part supplement the standards by prescribing procedures necessary and appropriate for the Corporation's operations.

(d) The Corporation is further issuing the regulations in this part under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514, and the salary offset regulations published by the Office of Personnel and Management at 5 CFR part 550, subpart K.

(e) All of these debt collection regulations are issued under the Corporation's authority under 42 U.S.C. 12651c(c).
