
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2506 - COLLECTION OF DEBTS
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 2506.17 What must I do to obtain a review of my debt, and how will the review process work?
####### Request for review.,see

(a)(1) You have the right to request a review by the Corporation of the existence or the amount of your debt, the proposed schedule for offset of Federal employee salary payments, or whether the debt is past due or legally enforceable. If you want a review, you must send a written request to the Corporation official designated in the notice (ยง 2506.16(d)).

(2) You must sign your request for review and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence, and witnesses that support your position. Your request for review should be accompanied by available evidence to support your contentions.

(3) Your request for review must be received by the designated officer or employee of the Corporation on or before the 60th calendar day following the date of the notice. Timely filing will stay the commencement of collection procedures. The Corporation may consider requests filed after the 60-day period provided for in this section if you:

(i) Can show that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond your control; or

(ii) Did not receive notice of the filing deadline (unless you had actual notice of the filing deadline).
