
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2506 - COLLECTION OF DEBTS
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 2506.19 How can I resolve my debt through voluntary repayment?

(a) In response to a notice of debt, you may propose to the Corporation that you be allowed to repay the debt through a voluntary repayment agreement in lieu of the Corporation taking other collection actions under this part.

(b) Your request to enter into a voluntary repayment agreement must:

(1) Be in writing;

(2) Admit the existence of the debt; and

(3) Either propose payment of the debt (together with interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs) in a lump sum, or set forth a proposed repayment schedule.

(c) The Corporation will collect debts in one lump sum whenever feasible. However, if you are unable to pay your debt in one lump sum, the Corporation may accept payment in regular installments that bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and your ability to pay. If possible, the installment payments should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the debt in three years or less.

(d) The Corporation will consider a request to enter into a voluntary repayment agreement in accordance with the FCCS. The Chief Executive Officer may request additional information from you, including financial statements if you request to make payments in installments, in order to determine whether to accept a voluntary repayment agreement. It is within the Chief Executive Officer's discretion to accept a repayment agreement instead of proceeding with other collection actions under this part, and to set the necessary terms of any voluntary repayment agreement. No repayment agreement will be binding on the Corporation unless it is in writing and signed by both you and the Chief Executive Officer. At the Corporation's option, you may be required to provide security as part of the agreement to make payments in installments. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, 31 U.S.C. 3711 will govern any reduction or compromise of a debt.
