
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2506 - COLLECTION OF DEBTS
##### Subpart C - Salary Offset
###### ยง 2506.33 How will the Corporation coordinate salary offsets with other agencies?
####### Responsibilities of the Corporation as the paying agency (i.e., when the debtor owes a debt to another agency and is an employee of the Corporation).

(b)(1) Complete claim. When the Corporation receives a certified claim from a creditor agency (under the creditor agency's regulations adopted under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K), deductions should be scheduled to begin within three officially established pay intervals. Before deductions can begin, the Corporation sends the employee a written notice containing:

(i) A statement that the Corporation has received a certified claim from the creditor agency;

(ii) The amount of the debt;

(iii) The date salary offset deductions will begin; and

(iv) The amount of such deductions.

(2) Incomplete claim. When the Corporation receives an incomplete certification of debt from a creditor agency, the Corporation will return the claim with a notice that the creditor agency must:

(i) Comply with the procedures required under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and

(ii) Properly certify a claim to the Corporation before the Corporation will take action to collect from the employee's current pay account.

(3) The Corporation is not authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.

(4) Employees who transfer from the Corporation to another paying agency. If, after the creditor agency has submitted the claim to the Corporation, the employee transfers from the Corporation to a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, the Corporation will certify the total amount collected on the debt and notify the employee and the creditor agency in writing. The notification to the creditor agency will include information on the employee's transfer.
