
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2506 - COLLECTION OF DEBTS
##### Subpart C - Salary Offset
###### ยง 2506.33 How will the Corporation coordinate salary offsets with other agencies?
####### Responsibilities of the Corporation as the creditor agency (i.e. when the debtor owes a debt to the Corporation and is an employee of another agency).

(a)Upon completion of the procedures established in this subpart and pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716, the Corporation must submit a claim to a paying agency or disbursing official.

(1) In its claim, the Corporation must certify, in writing, the following:

(i) That the employee owes the debt;

(ii) The amount and basis of the debt;

(iii) The date the Corporation's right to collect the debt first accrued;

(iv) That the Corporation's regulations in this subpart have been approved by OPM under 5 CFR part 550, subpart K; and

(v) That the Corporation has met the certification requirements of the paying agency.

(2) If the collection must be made in installments, the Corporation's claim will also advise the paying agency of the amount or percentage of disposable pay to be collected in each installment. The Corporation may also advise the paying agency of the number of installments to be collected and the date of the first installment, if that date is other than the next officially established pay period.

(3) The Corporation will also include in its claim:

(i) The employee's written consent to the salary offset;

(ii) The employee's signed statement acknowledging receipt of the procedures required by 5 U.S.C. 5514; or

(iii) Information regarding the completion of procedures required by 5 U.S.C. 5514, including the actions taken and the dates of those actions.

(4) If the employee is in the process of separating and has not received a final salary check or other final payment(s) from the paying agency, the Corporation must submit its claim to the paying agency or disbursing official for collection under 31 U.S.C. 3716. The paying agency will (under its regulations adopted under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K), certify the total amount of its collection on the debt and notify the employee and the Corporation. If the paying agency's collection does not fully satisfy the debt, and the paying agency is aware that the debtor is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund or other similar payments that may be due the debtor employee from other Federal government sources, then (under its regulations adopted under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K), the paying agency will provide written notice of the outstanding debt to the agency responsible for making the other payments to the debtor employee. The written notice will state that the employee owes a debt, the amount of the debt, and that the provisions of this section have been fully complied with. However, the Corporation must submit a properly certified claim under this paragraph (a)(4) to the agency responsible for making the other payments before the collection can be made.

(5) If the employee is already separated and all payments due from his or her former paying agency have been paid, the Corporation may request, unless otherwise prohibited, that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund or other similar funds be administratively offset to collect the debt.
