
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2507 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### Subpart G - Fees
###### ยง 2507.17 Fees overview.

(a) AmeriCorps will charge fees for processing FOIA requests in accordance with the provisions of this subpart and with the OMB Guidelines, unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted under ยง 2507.24.

(b) AmeriCorps will search for, review, and duplicate records in the most efficient and the least expensive manner.

(c) AmeriCorps may properly charge for time spent searching even if it does not locate any responsive records or if it determines that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.

(d) When a request is made for commercial purposes, review fees will be assessed for the Agency's time spent on its initial analysis to determine whether an exemption applies to a record or portion of a record.

(e) No charge will be made at the administrative review stage for review of exemptions that were applied at the initial review stage. However, if one or more exemptions are deemed to no longer apply, the costs associated with the Agency's re-review of the records to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees.

(f) Requesters may seek a fee waiver. AmeriCorps will consider requests for a fee waiver in accordance with the requirements in ยง 2507.24.

(g) To resolve any fee issues that arise under this section, AmeriCorps may contact a requester for additional information.
