
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2507 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### Subpart G - Fees
###### ยง 2507.23 Collection and payment of fees.

(a) AmeriCorps must ordinarily receive all applicable fees before it sends copies of records to a requester. This is payment for work already completed, not an advance payment.

(b) AmeriCorps may require an advance payment before work begins or is continued on a request when one of the following two circumstances exists. In these cases, AmeriCorps will not consider the FOIA request to have been received and will not conduct further work on the request until it receives the required payment. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of AmeriCorps' fee determination, the request will be closed.

(1) If AmeriCorps determines or estimates that a total fee will be greater than $250.00, it may require that the requester pay in advance, up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee, before starting to process the request. AmeriCorps may choose to process the request before it collects fees if it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.

(2) When a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to the Agency within 30 calendar days of the billing date, AmeriCorps may require the requester to pay the full amount past due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and may also require the requester to pay in advance the full amount of any anticipated fee before it begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. If AmeriCorps has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented their identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require the requester to provide proof of identity.

(c) Requesters must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.

(d) AmeriCorps is not required to accept payments in installments.
