
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2508 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 2508.10 Who has the responsibility for maintaining adequate technical, physical, and security safeguards to prevent unauthorized disclosure or destruction of manual and automatic record systems?
###### Manual systems.

(a)(1) Records contained in a system of records as defined herein may be used, held or stored only where facilities are adequate to prevent unauthorized access by persons within or outside the Corporation.

(2) All records, when not under the personal control of the employees authorized to use the records, must be stored in a locked metal filing cabinet. Some systems of records are not of such confidential nature that their disclosure would constitute a harm to an individual who is the subject of such record. However, records in this category shall also be maintained in locked metal filing cabinets or maintained in a secured room with a locking door.

(3) Access to and use of a system of records shall be permitted only to persons whose duties require such access within the Corporation, for routine uses as defined in ยง 2508.4 as to any given system, or for such other uses as may be provided herein.

(4) Other than for access within the Corporation to persons needing such records in the performance of their official duties or routine uses as defined in ยง 2508.4, or such other uses as provided herein, access to records within a system of records shall be permitted only to the individual to whom the record pertains or upon his or her written request to the Director, Administration and Management Services.

(5) Access to areas where a system of records is stored will be limited to those persons whose duties require work in such areas. There shall be an accounting of the removal of any records from such storage areas utilizing a written log, as directed by the Director, Administration and Management Services. The written log shall be maintained at all times.

(6) The Corporation shall ensure that all persons whose duties require access to and use of records contained in a system of records are adequately trained to protect the security and privacy of such records.

(7) The disposal and destruction of records within a system of records shall be in accordance with rules promulgated by the General Services Administration.
