
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2508 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 2508.14 What are the identification requirements for individuals who request access to records?

The Corporation shall require reasonable identification of all individuals who request access to records to ensure that records are disclosed to the proper person.

(a) In the event an individual requests disclosure in person, such individual shall be required to show an identification card such as a drivers license, etc., containing a photo and a sample signature of such individual. Such individual may also be required to sign a statement under oath as to his or her identity, acknowledging that he or she is aware of the penalties for improper disclosure under the provisions of the Privacy Act.

(b) In the event that disclosure is requested by mail, the Corporation may request such information as may be necessary to reasonably ensure that the individual making such request is properly identified. In certain cases, the Corporation may require that a mail request be notarized with an indication that the notary received an acknowledgment of identity from the individual making such request.

(c) In the event an individual is unable to provide suitable documentation or identification, the Corporation may require a signed notarized statement asserting the identity of the individual and stipulating that the individual understands that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another person under false pretenses is punishable by a fine of up to $5,000.

(d) In the event a requestor wishes to be accompanied by another person while reviewing his or her records, the Corporation may require a written statement authorizing discussion of his or her records in the presence of the accompanying representative or other persons.
