
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2508 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 2508.16 What are the procedures for filing an appeal for refusal to amend or correct records?

(a) In the event an individual desires to appeal any refusal to correct or amend records, he or she may do so by addressing, in writing, such appeal to the Corporation for National and Community Service, Office of the Chief Operating Officer, Attn: Appeal Officer, 250 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20525. Although there is no time limit for such appeals, the Corporation shall be under no obligation to maintain copies of original requests or responses thereto beyond 180 days from the date of the original request.

(b) An appeal will be completed within 30 working days from its receipt by the Appeal Officer; except that, the appeal authority may, for good cause, extend this period for an additional 30 days. Should the appeal period be extended, the individual appealing the original refusal will be informed in writing of the extension and the circumstances of the delay. The individual's request for access to or to amend or correct the record, the Privacy Act Officer's refusal to amend or correct the record, and any other pertinent material relating to the appeal will be reviewed. No hearing will be held.

(c) If the Appeal Officer determines that the record that is the subject of the appeal should be amended or corrected, the record will be amended or corrected and the individual will be informed in writing of the amendment or correction. Where an accounting was made of prior disclosures of the record, all previous recipients of the record will be informed of the corrective action taken.

(d) If the appeal is denied, the subject individual will be informed in writing:

(1) Of the denial and reasons for the denial;

(2) That he or she has a right to seek judicial review of the denial; and

(3) That he or she may submit to the Appeal Officer a concise statement of disagreement to be associated with the disputed record and disclosed whenever the record is disclosed.

(e) Whenever an individual submits a statement of disagreement to the Appeal Officer in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the record will be annotated to indicate that it is disputed. In any subsequent disclosure, a copy of the subject individual's statement of disagreement will be disclosed with the record. If the appeal authority deems it appropriate, a concise statement of the Appeal Officer's reasons for denying the individual's appeal may also be disclosed with the record. While the individual will have access to this statement of reasons, such statement will not be subject to correction or amendment. Where an accounting was made of prior disclosures of the record, all previous recipients of the record will be provided a copy of the individual's statement of disagreement, as well as the statement, if any, of the Appeal Officer's reasons for denying the individual's appeal.
