
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2510 - OVERALL PURPOSES AND DEFINITIONS
##### ยง 2510.20 Definitions.
###### Program costs.,program costs

The termmeans expenses directly related to a program or project, including their operations and objectives. Program costs include, but are not limited to:

(1) Costs attributable to participants, including: living allowances, insurance payments, and expenses for training and travel.

(2) Costs (including salary, benefits, training, travel) attributable to staff who recruit, train, place, support, coordinate, or supervise participants, or who develop materials used in such activities.

(3) Costs for independent evaluations and internal evaluations to the extent that the evaluations cover only the funded program or project.

(4) Costs, excluding those already covered in an organization's indirect cost rate, attributable to staff that work in a direct program or project support, operational, or oversight capacity, including, but not limited to: support staff whose functions directly support program or project activities; staff who coordinate and facilitate single or multi-site program and project activities; and staff who review, disseminate and implement Corporation guidance and policies directly relating to a program or project.

(5) Space, facility, and communications costs for program or project operations and other costs that primarily support program or project operations, excluding those costs that are already covered by an organization's indirect cost rate.

(6) Other allowable costs, excluding those costs that are already covered by an organization's indirect cost rate, specifically approved by the Corporation as directly attributable to a program or project.
