
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2516 - SCHOOL-BASED SERVICE-LEARNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Use of Grant Funds
###### ยง 2516.200 How may grant funds be used?
####### Planning and capacity-building.

(a)(1) A State, Indian Tribe, or community-based entity may use funds to pay for planning and building its capacity to implement school-based service-learning programs. These entities may use funds either directly or through subgrants or contracts with qualified organizations.

(2) Authorized activities include the following:

(i) Providing training for teachers, supervisors, personnel from community-based agencies (particularly with regard to the utilization of participants) and trainers, conducted by qualified individuals or organizations experienced in service-learning.

(ii) Developing service-learning curricula, consistent with State or local academic content standards, to be integrated into academic programs, including the age-appropriate learning components for students to analyze and apply their service experiences.

(iii) Forming local partnerships described in ยง 2516.120 to develop school-based service-learning programs in accordance with this part.

(iv) Devising appropriate methods for research and evaluation of the educational value of service-learning and the effect of service-learning activities on communities.

(v) Establishing effective outreach and dissemination of information to ensure the broadest possible involvement of community-based agencies with demonstrated effectiveness in working with school-age youth in their communities.
