
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2516 - SCHOOL-BASED SERVICE-LEARNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Eligibility To Apply
###### ยง 2516.120 Who may apply for funding a subgrant?

Entities that may apply for a subgrant from a State, Indian Tribe, or community-based entity are:

(a) A qualified organization, Indian Tribe, Territory, local educational agency, for-profit business, private elementary school or secondary school, or institution of higher education for a grant from a State for planning and building the capacity of school-based service-learning programs.

(b) A local partnership, for a grant from a State to implement, operate, or expand a school-based service learning program.

(1) The local partnership must include an LEA and one or more community partners. The local partnership may include a private for-profit business, or private elementary or secondary school, or an Indian Tribe (except that an Indian Tribe distributing funds to a project under this paragraph is not eligible to be part of the partnership operating that project).

(2) The community partners must include a public or private nonprofit organization that has demonstrated expertise in the provision of services to meet educational, public safety, human, or environmental needs; will make projects available for participants, who must be students; and was in existence at least one year before the date on which the organization submitted an application under this part.

(c) An LEA or Indian Tribe for planning school-based service-learning programs involving paying, recruiting, and supporting service-learning coordinators.

(d) An LEA, local partnership, or public or private nonprofit organization for a grant from a State to implement, operate, or expand an adult volunteer program. The local partnership must include an LEA and one or more public or private nonprofit organizations, other educational agencies, or an Indian Tribe (except that an Indian Tribe distributing funds under this paragraph is not eligible to be a recipient of those funds) that coordinate and operate projects for participants who must be students.

(e) An eligible entity for a grant from a State or Indian Tribe to carry out civic engagement activities.
