
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2516 - SCHOOL-BASED SERVICE-LEARNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart H - Evaluation Requirements
###### ยง 2516.820 What types of internal evaluation activities are required of programs?

Programs are required to: (a) Continuously assess management effectiveness, the quality of services provided, and the satisfaction of both participants and service recipients. Internal evaluations should seek frequent feedback and provide for quick correction of weakness. The Corporation encourages programs to use internal evaluation methods, such as community advisory councils, participant advisory councils, peer reviews, quality control inspections, and service recipient and participant surveys.

(b) Track progress toward pre-established objectives. Objectives must be established by programs and approved by the Corporation. Programs must submit to the Corporation (or the Corporation grantee as applicable) periodic performance reports.

(c) Collect and submit to the Corporation (through the Corporation grantee as applicable) the following data: (1) The total number of participants in each program and basic demographic characteristics of the participants including sex, age, economic background, education level, ethnic group, disability classification, and geographic region.

(2) Other information as required by the Corporation.

(d) Cooperate fully with all Corporation evaluation activities.
