
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2517 - COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICE-LEARNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart G - Funding Requirements
###### ยง 2517.710 Are there limits on the use of funds?

Yes. The following limits apply to funds available under this part:

(a)(1) Not more than five percent of the grant funds provided under this part for any fiscal year may be used to pay for administrative costs, as defined in ยง 2510.20 of this chapter.

(2) The distribution of administrative costs between the grant and any subgrant will be subject to the approval of the Corporation.

(3) In applying the limitation on administrative costs the Corporation will approve one of the following methods in the award document:

(i) Limit the amount or rate of indirect costs that may be paid with Corporation funds under a grant or subgrant to five percent of total Corporation funds expended, provided that-

(A) Organizations that have an established indirect cost rate for Federal awards will be limited to this method; and

(B) Unreimbursed indirect costs may be applied to meeting operational matching requirements under the Corporation's award;

(ii) Specify that a fixed rate of five percent or less (not subject to supporting cost documentation) of total Corporation funds expended may be used to pay for administrative costs, provided that the fixed rate is in conjunction with an overall 15 percent administrative cost factor to be used for organizations that do not have established indirect cost rates; or

(iii) Utilize such other method that the Corporation determines in writing is consistent with OMB guidance and other applicable requirements, helps minimize the burden on grantees or subgrantees, and is beneficial to grantees or subgrantees and the Federal Government.

(b)(1) An SEA or Indian tribe must spend between ten and 15 percent of the grant to build capacity through training, technical assistance, curriculum development, and coordination activities.

(2) The Corporation may waive this requirement in order to permit an SEA or a tribe to use between ten percent and 20 percent of the grant funds to build capacity. To be eligible to receive the waiver, the SEA or tribe must submit an application to the Corporation.

(c) Funds made available under this part may not be used to pay any stipend, allowance, or other financial support to any participant in a service-learning program under this part except reimbursement for transportation, meals, and other reasonable out-of-pocket expenses directly related to participation in a program assisted under this part.
