
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2521 - ELIGIBLE AMERICORPS SUBTITLE C PROGRAM APPLICANTS AND TYPES OF GRANTS AVAILABLE FOR AWARD
##### ยง 2521.30 How will AmeriCorps subtitle C program grants be awarded?
###### Grants to State Applicants.

(a)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term "State" means the fifty States, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia.

(2) One-third of the funds available under this part and a corresponding allotment of AmeriCorps educational awards, as specified by the Corporation, will be distributed according to a population-based formula to the 50 States, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia if they have applications approved by the Corporation.

(3) At least one-third of funds available under this part and an appropriate number of AmeriCorps awards, as determined by the Corporation, will be awarded to States on a competitive basis. In order to receive these funds, a State must receive funds under paragraphs (a)(2) or (b)(1) of this section in the same fiscal year.

(4) In making subgrants with funds awarded by formula or competition under paragraphs (a)(2) or (3) of this section, a State must ensure that a minimum of 50 percent of funds going to States will be used for programs that operate in the areas of need or on Federal or other public lands, and that place a priority on recruiting participants who are residents in high need areas, or on Federal or other public lands. The Corporation may waive this requirement for an individual State if at least 50 percent of the total amount of assistance to all States will be used for such programs.
