
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Appendix IX to Part 75 - Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals
###### i.e.,

a. The expenses under this heading are those that have been incurred for the administrative offices of the hospital including accounting, personnel, purchasing, information centers, telephone expense, and the like which do not relate solely to any major division of the institution,solely to patient care, organized research, instruction and training, or other hospital activities.

b. The expenses included in this category may be allocated on the basis of total expenditures exclusive of capital expenditures, or salaries and wages in situations where the results of the distribution made on this basis are deemed to be equitable both to the Government and the hospital; otherwise the distribution of Administration and General expenses should be made through use of selected bases, applied to separate cost groupings established within this category of expenses in accordance with the guides set out in paragraph E.2.

a. The expenses under this heading are those that have been incurred by a central service organization or at the departmental level for the administration, supervision, and provision of utilities (exclusive of telephone expense) and protective services to the physical plant. They include expenses incurred for such items as power plant operations, general utility costs, elevator operations, protection services, and general parking lots.

b. The expenses included in this category should be allocated to applicable cost centers in a manner consistent with the guides provided in paragraph E.2., on a basis that gives primary emphasis to space utilization. The allocations should be developed as follows:

(1) Where actual space and related cost records are available or can readily be developed and maintained without significant change in the accounting practices, the amount distributed should be based on such records;

(2) Where the space and related cost records maintained are not sufficient for purposes of the foregoing, a reasonable estimate of the proportion of total space assigned to the various costs centers normally will suffice as a means for effecting distribution of the amounts involved; or

(3) Where it can be demonstrated that an area or volume or space basis of allocation is impractical or inequitable, other bases may be used provided consideration is given to the use of facilities by research personnel and others, including patients.

a. The expenses under this heading should include:

(1) All salaries and wages pertaining to ordinary repair and maintenance work performed by employees on the payroll of the hospital;

(2) All supplies and parts used in the ordinary repairing and maintaining of buildings and general equipment; and

(3) Amounts paid to outside concerns for the ordinary repairing and maintaining of buildings and general equipment.

b. The expenses included in this category should be allocated to applicable cost centers in a manner consistent with the guides provided in paragraph E.2. on a basis that gives primary emphasis to space utilization. The allocations and apportionments should be developed as follows:

(1) Where actual space and related cost records are available and can readily be developed and maintained without significant change in the accounting practices, the amount distributed should be based on such records;

(2) Where the space and related cost records maintained are not sufficient for purposes of the foregoing, a reasonable estimate of the proportion of total space assigned to the various cost centers normally will suffice as a means for effecting distribution of the amounts involved; or

(3) Where it can be demonstrated that an area or volume of space basis of allocation is impractical or inequitable, other basis may be used provided consideration is given to the use of facilities by research personnel and others, including patients.

a. The expenses under this heading should include:

(1) Salaries and wages of laundry department employees, seamstresses, clean linen handlers, linen delivery men, etc.;

(2) Supplies used in connection with the laundry operation and all linens purchased; and

(3) Amounts paid to outside concerns for purchased laundry and/or linen service.

b. The expense included in this category should be allocated to related cost centers in a manner consistent with the guides provided in paragraph E.2. on a basis that gives primary emphasis to actual pounds of linen used. The allocations should be developed as follows:

(1) Where actual poundage and related cost records are available or can readily be developed and maintained without significant change in the accounting practices, the amount distributed should be based on such records;

(2) Where it can be demonstrated that a poundage basis of allocation is impractical or inequitable other bases may be used provided consideration is given to the use of linen by research personnel and others, including patients.

a. The expenses under this heading should include:

(1) All salaries and wages of the department head, foreman, maids, porters, janitors, wall washers, and other housekeeping employees;

(2) All supplies used in carrying out the housekeeping functions; and

(3) Amounts paid to outside concerns for purchased services such as window washing, insect extermination, etc.

b. The expenses included in this category should be allocated to related cost centers in a manner consistent with the guides provided in paragraph E.2. on a basis that gives primary emphasis to space actually serviced by the housekeeping department. The allocations and apportionments should be developed as follows:

(1) Where actual space serviced and related cost records are available or can readily be developed and maintained without significant change in the accounting practices, the amount distributed should be based on such records;

(2) Where the space serviced and related cost records maintained are not sufficient for purposes of the foregoing, a reasonable estimate of the proportion of total space assigned to the various cost centers normally will suffice as a means for effecting distribution of the amounts of housekeeping expenses involved; or

(3) Where it can be demonstrated that the space serviced basis of allocation is impractical or inequitable, other bases may be used provided consideration is given to the use of housekeeping services by research personnel and others, including patients.

a. These expenses, as used herein, shall mean only the subsidy provided by the hospital to its employees including research personnel through its cafeteria operation. The hospital must be able to demonstrate through the use of proper cost accounting techniques that the cafeteria operates at a loss to the benefit of employees.

b. The reasonable operating loss of a subsidized cafeteria operation should be allocated to related cost centers in a manner consistent with the guides provided in paragraph E.2. on a basis that gives primary emphasis to number of employees.

a. The expenses under this heading should include:

(1) The salaries and wages of matrons, clerks, and other employees engaged in work in nurses' residences and other employees' quarters;

(2) All supplies used in connection with the operation of such dormitories; and

(3) Payments to outside agencies for the rental of houses, apartments, or rooms used by hospital personnel.

b. The expenses included in this category should be allocated to related cost centers in a manner consistent with the guides provided in paragraph E.2. on a basis that gives primary emphasis to employee utilization of housing facilities. The allocation should be developed as follows:

(1) Appropriate credit should be given for all payments received from employees or otherwise to reduce the expense to be allocated;

(2) A net cost per housed employee may then be computed; and

(3) Allocation should be made on a departmental basis based on the number of housed employees in each respective department.

a. The expenses under this heading should include:

(1) The salaries and wages of the records librarian, medical librarian, clerks, stenographers, etc.; and

(2) All supplies such as medical record forms, chart covers, filing supplies, stationery, medical library books, periodicals, etc.

b. The expenses included in this category should be allocated to related cost centers in a manner consistent with the guides provided in paragraph E.2. on a basis that gives primary emphasis to a special time survey of medical records personnel. If this appears to be impractical or inequitable, other bases may be used provided consideration is given to the use of these facilities by research personnel and others, including patients.

a. Subject to b. below, indirect costs allocated to organized research should be treated as a common pool, and the costs in such common pool should be distributed to individual research agreements benefiting therefrom on a single rate basis.

b. In some instances a single rate basis for use on all government research at a hospital may not be appropriate since it would not take into account those different environmental factors which may affect substantially the indirect costs applicable to a particular segment of government research at the institution. For this purpose, a particular segment of government research may be that performed under a single research agreement or it may consist of research under a group of research agreements performed in a common environment. The environmental factors are not limited to the physical location of the work. Other important factors are the level of the administrative support required, the nature of the facilities or other resources employed, the scientific disciplines or technical skills involved, the organizational arrangements used, or any combination thereof. Where a particular segment of government research is performed within an environment which appears to generate a significantly different level of indirect costs, provision should be made for a separate indirect cost pool applicable to such work. An example of this differential may be in the development of a separate indirect cost pool for a clinical research center grant. The separate indirect cost pool should be developed during the course of the regular distribution process, and the separate indirect cost rate resulting therefrom should be utilized provided it is determined that:

(1) Such indirect cost rate differs significantly from that which would have obtained under a. above; and

(2) The volume of research work to which such rate would apply is material in relation to other government research at the institution.

c. It is a common practice for grants or contracts awarded to other institutions, typically University Schools of Medicine, to be performed on hospital premises. In these cases the hospital should develop a separate indirect cost pool applicable to the work under such grants or contracts. This pool should be developed by a selective distribution of only those indirect cost categories which benefit the work performed by the other institution, within the practical limits dictated by available data and the materiality of the amounts involved. Hospital costs determined to be allocable to grants or contracts awarded to another institution may not be recovered as a cost of grants or contracts awarded directly to the hospital.

Preferably, indirect costs allocated to organized research should be distributed to applicable research agreements on the basis of direct salaries and wages. However, where the use of salaries and wages results in an inequitable allocation of costs to the research agreements, total direct costs or a variation thereof, may be used in lieu of salaries and wages. Regardless of the base used, an indirect cost rate should be determined for each of the separate indirect cost pools developed pursuant to paragraph G.1. The rate in each case should be stated as the percentage which the amount of the particular indirect cost pool is of the total direct salaries and wages (or other base selected) for all research agreements identified with such a pool.

A negotiated fixed amount in lieu of indirect costs may be appropriate for self-contained or off-campus research activities where the benefits derived from a hospital's indirect services cannot be readily determined. Such amount negotiated in lieu of indirect costs will be treated as an offset to the appropriate indirect cost pool after allocation to patient care, organized research, instruction and training, and other hospital activities. The base on which such remaining expenses are allocated should be appropriately adjusted.

The utilization of predetermined fixed overhead rates may offer potential advantages in the administration of research agreements by facilitating the preparation of research budgets and permitting more expeditious close out of the agreements when the work is completed. Therefore, to the extent allowed by law, consideration may be given to the negotiation of predetermined fixed rates in those situations where the cost experience and other pertinent factors available are deemed sufficient to enable the Government and the hospital to reach a reasonable conclusion as to the probable level of the indirect cost rate for the ensuing accounting period.

a. Where the total direct cost of all government-sponsored research and development work at a hospital in a year is minimal, the use of the abbreviated procedure described in paragraph H.2. below may be acceptable in the determination of allowable indirect costs. This method may also be used to initially determine a provisional indirect cost rate for hospitals that have not previously established a rate. Under this abbreviated procedure, data taken directly from the institution's most recent annual financial report and immediately available supporting information will be utilized as a basis for determining the indirect cost rate applicable to research agreements at the institution.

b. The rigid formula approach provided under the abbreviated procedure has limitations which may preclude its use at some hospitals either because the minimum data required for this purpose are not readily available or because the application of the abbreviated procedure to the available data produces results which appear inequitable to the Government or the hospital. In any such case, indirect costs should be determined through use of the regular procedure rather than the abbreviated procedure.

c. In certain instances where the total direct cost of all government-sponsored research and development work at the hospital is more than minimal, the abbreviated procedure may be used if prior permission is obtained. This alternative will be granted only in those cases where it can be demonstrated that the step-down technique cannot be followed.

a. Total expenditures as taken from the most recent annual financial report will be adjusted by eliminating from further consideration expenditures for capital items as defined in paragraph I.2.d. and unallowable costs as defined under various headings in paragraph I. and paragraph C.5.

b. Total expenditures as adjusted under the foregoing will then be distributed among (1) expenditures applicable to administrative and general overhead functions, (2) expenditures applicable to all other overhead functions, and (3) expenditures for all other purposes. The first group shall include amounts associated with the functional categories, Administration and General, and Dietary, as defined in paragraphs F.2. and 7. The second group shall include Depreciation, Operation of Plant, Maintenance of Plant, and Housekeeping. The third group-expenditures for all other purposes-shall include the amounts applicable to all other activities, namely, patient care, organized research, instruction and training, and other hospital activities as defined under paragraph B.5. For the purposes of this section, the functional categories of Laundry and Linen, Maintenance of Personnel, and Medical Records and Library as defined in paragraph E. shall be considered as expenditures for all other purposes.

c. The expenditures distributed to the first two groups in paragraph H.2.b. should then be adjusted by those receipts or negative expenditure types of transactions which tend to reduce expense items allocable to research agreements as indirect costs. Examples of such receipts or negative expenditures are itemized in paragraph C.5.a.

d. In applying the procedures in paragraphs H.2.a and 2.b, the cost of unallowable activities such as Gift Shop, Investment Property Management, Fund Raising, and Public Relations, when they benefit from the hospital's indirect cost services, should be treated as expenditures for all other purposes. Such activities are presumed to benefit from the hospital's indirect cost services when they include salaries of personnel working in the hospital. When they do not include such salaries, they should be eliminated from the indirect cost rate computation.

e. The indirect cost rate will then be computed in two stages. The first stage requires the computation of an Administrative and General rate component. This is done by applying a ratio of research direct costs over total direct costs to the Administrative and General pool developed under paragraphs H.2.b and 2.c. above. The resultant amount-that which is allocable to research-is divided by the direct research cost base. The second stage requires the computation of an All Other Indirect Cost rate component. This is done by applying a ratio of research direct space over total direct space to All Other Indirect Cost pool developed under paragraphs H.2.b. and 2.c. above. The resultant amount-that which is allocable to research-is divided by the direct research cost base.

The total of the two rate components will be the institution's indirect cost rate. For the purposes of this section, the research direct cost or space and total direct cost or space will be that cost or space identified with the functional categories classified under Expenditures for all other purposes under paragraph H.2.b.

This section provides standards to be applied in establishing the allowability of certain items involved in determining cost. These standards should apply irrespective of whether a particular item of cost is properly treated as direct cost or indirect cost. Failure to mention a particular item of cost in the standards is not intended to imply that it is either allowable or unallowable; rather, determination as to allowability in each case should be based on the treatment or standards provided for similar or related items of cost. In case of discrepancy between the provisions of a specific research agreement and the applicable standards provided, the provisions of the research agreement should govern. However, in some cases advance understandings should be reached on particular cost items in order that the full costs of research be supported. The extent of allowability of the selected items of cost covered in this section has been stated to apply broadly to many accounting systems in varying environmental situations. Thus, as to any given research agreement, the reasonableness and allocability of certain items of costs may be difficult to determine, particularly in connection with hospitals which have medical school or other affiliations. In order to avoid possible subsequent disallowance or dispute based on unreasonableness or nonallocability, it is important that prospective recipients of federal funds, particularly those whose work is predominantly or substantially with the Government, seek agreement with the Government in advance of the incurrence of special or unusual costs in categories where reasonableness or allocability are difficult to determine. Such agreement may also be initiated by the Government. Any such agreement should be incorporated in the research agreement itself. However, the absence of such an advance agreement on any element of cost will not in itself serve to make that element either allowable or unallowable. Examples of costs on which advance agreements may be particularly important are:

a. Facilities costs, such as;

(1) Depreciation

(2) Rental

(3) Use charges for fully depreciated assets

(4) Idle facilities and idle capacity

(5) Plant reconversion

(6) Extraordinary or deferred maintenance and repair

(7) Acquisition of automatic data processing equipment.

b. Pre-award costs

c. Non-hospital professional activities

d. Self-insurance

e. Support services charged directly (computer services, printing and duplicating services, etc.)

f. Employee compensation, travel, and other personnel costs, including:

(1) Compensation for personal service, including wages and salaries, bonuses and incentives, premium payments, pay for time not worked, and supplementary compensation and benefits, such as pension and retirement, group insurance, severance pay plans, and other forms of compensation;

(2) Morale, health, welfare, and food service and dormitory costs.

(3) Training and education costs.

(4) Relocation costs, including special or mass personnel movement.
