
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 5b - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 5b.2 Purpose and scope.

(a) This part implements section 3 of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a (hereinafter referred to as the Act), by establishing agency policies and procedures for the maintenance of records. This part also establishes agency policies and procedures under which a subject individual may be given notification of or access to a record pertaining to him and policies and procedures under which a subject individual may have his record corrected or amended if he believes that his record is not accurate, timely, complete, or relevant or necessary to accomplish a Department function.

(b) All components of the Department are governed by the provisions of this part. Also governed by the provisions of this part are:

(1) Certain non-Federal entities which operate as agents of the Department for purposes of carrying out Federal functions, such as intermediaries and carriers performing functions under contracts and agreements entered into pursuant to sections 1816 and 1842 of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1395h and 1395u.

(2) Advisory committees and councils within the meaning of the Federal Advisory Committee Act which provide advice to (i) any official or component of the Department or (ii) the President and for which the Department has been delegated responsibility for providing services.

(c) Employees of the Department governed by this part include all regular and special government employees of the Department; members of the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps; experts and consultants whose temporary (not in excess of 1 year) or intermittent services have been procured by the Department by contract pursuant to 3109 of Title 5, United States Code; volunteers where acceptance of their services are authorized by law; those individuals performing gratuitous services as permitted under conditions prescribed by the Civil Service Commission; and, participants in work-study or training programs.

(d) Where other statutes mandate procedures which are inconsistent with the procedures set forth in this part, components of the Department may issue supplementary regulations containing procedures necessary to comply with such statutes. In addition, components of the Department may supplement by regulation the policies and procedures set forth in this part to meet particular needs of the programs administered by such components.

(e) This part does not:

(1) Make available to a subject individual records which are not retrieved by that individual's name or other personal identifier.

(2) Make available to the general public records which are retrieved by a subject individual's name or other personal identifier or make available to the general public records which would otherwise not be available to the general public under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and part 5 of this title.

(3) Govern the maintenance or disclosure of, notification of or access to, records in the possession of the Department which are subject to regulations of another agency, such as personnel records subject to the regulations of the Civil Service Commission.

(4) Apply to grantees, including State and local governments or subdivisions thereof, administering federally funded programs.

(5) Make available records compiled by the Department in reasonable anticipation of court litigation or formal administrative proceedings. The availability of such records to the general public or to any subject individual or party to such litigation or proceedings shall be governed by applicable constitutional principles, rules of discovery, and applicable regulations of the Department and any of its components.
