
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2550 - REQUIREMENTS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR STATE COMMISSIONS AND ALTERNATIVE ADMINISTRATIVE ENTITIES
##### ยง 2550.80 What are the duties of the State entities?
###### Development of a three-year, comprehensive national and community service plan and establishment of State priorities.

(a)The State entity must develop and annually update a Statewide plan for national service covering a three-year period, the beginning of which may be set by the State, that is consistent with the Corporation's broad goals of meeting human, educational, environmental, and public safety needs and meets the following minimum requirements:

(1) The plan must be developed through an open and public process (such as through regional forums or hearings) that provides for the maximum participation and input from a broad cross-section of individuals and organizations, including national service programs within the State, community-based agencies, organizations with a demonstrated record of providing educational, public safety, human, or environmental services, residents of the State, including youth and other prospective participants, State Educational Agencies, traditional service organizations, labor unions, and other interested members of the public.

(2) The plan must ensure outreach to diverse, broad-based community organizations that serve underrepresented populations by creating State networks and registries or by utilizing existing ones.

(3) The plan must set forth the State's goals, priorities, and strategies for promoting national and community service and strengthening its service infrastructure, including how Corporation-funded programs fit into the plan.

(4) The plan may contain such other information as the State commission considers appropriate and must contain such other information as the Corporation may require.

(5) The plan must ensure outreach to, and coordination with, municipalities and county governments regarding the national service laws.

(6) The plan must provide for effective coordination of funding applications submitted by the State and other organizations within the State under the national service laws.

(7) The plan must include measurable goals and outcomes for national service programs funded through the State consistent with the performance levels for national service programs.

(8) The plan is subject to approval by the chief executive officer of the State.

(9) The plan must be submitted, in its entirety, in summary, or in part, to the Corporation upon request.
