
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 75 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR HHS AWARDS
##### Appendix IX to Part 75 - Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals
###### Patient care.

w.

The cost of routine and ancillary or special services to research patients is an allowable direct cost of research agreements.

(1) Routine services shall include the costs of the regular room, dietary and nursing services, minor medical and surgical supplies and the use of equipment and facilities for which a separate charge is not customarily made.

(2) Ancillary or special services are the services for which charges are customarily made in addition to routine services, such as operating rooms, anesthesia, laboratory, BMR-EKG, etc.

(3) Patient care, whether expressed as a rate or an amount, shall be computed in a manner consistent with the procedures used to determine reimbursable costs under Pub. L. 89-97 (Medicare Program) as defined under the "Principles of Reimbursement For Provider Costs" published by the Social Security Administration of the Department of Health and Human Services. The allowability of specific categories of cost shall be in accordance with those principles rather than the principles for research contained herein. In the absence of participation in the Medicare program by a hospital, all references to the Medicare program in these principles shall be construed as meaning the Medicaid program.

i. Once costs have been recognized as allowable, the indirect costs or general service center's cost shall be allocated (stepped-down) to special service centers, and all patient and nonpatient costs centers based upon actual services received or benefiting these centers.
