
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2551 - SENIOR COMPANION PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Responsibilities of a Volunteer Station
###### § 2551.62 What are the responsibilities of a volunteer station?

A volunteer station shall undertake the following responsibilities in support of Senior Companion volunteers:

(a) Develop volunteer assignments that meet the requirements specified in §§ 2551.71 through 2551.72, and regularly assess those assignments for continued appropriateness.

(b) Select eligible clients for assigned volunteers.

(c) Develop a written volunteer assignment plan for each Senior Companion that identifies their roles and activities, each client served, and expected outcomes.

(d) Keep a Letter of Agreement for each client who receives in-home service.

(e) Provide Senior Companions serving the station with:

(1) Orientation to the station and any in-service training necessary to enhance performance of assignments; and

(2) Resources required for performance of assignments, including reasonable accommodation, as needed, to enable Senior Companions with disabilities to perform the essential functions of their service.

(f) Designate a staff member to oversee fulfillment of station responsibilities and supervision of Senior Companions while on assignment.

(g) Keep records and prepare reports required by the sponsor.

(h) Provide for the safety of Senior Companions assigned to it.

(i) Comply with all applicable civil rights laws and regulations, including providing Senior Companions with disabilities reasonable accommodation, to perform the essential functions of their service.

(j) Undertake such other responsibilities as may be necessary for the successful performance of Senior Companions in their assignments or as agreed to in the Memorandum of Understanding.
