
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2552 - FOSTER GRANDPARENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Responsibilities of a Volunteer Station
###### § 2552.62 What are the responsibilities of a volunteer station?

A volunteer station shall undertake the following responsibilities in support of Foster Grandparent volunteers:

(a) Develop volunteer assignments that meet the requirements specified in §§ 2552.71 through 2552.72 and regularly assess those assignments for continued appropriateness.

(b) Select eligible children for assigned volunteers.

(c) Develop a written volunteer assignment plan for each Foster Grandparent that identifies their roles and activities, each child served, and expected outcomes.

(d) Keep a Letter of Agreement for each child who receives in-home service.

(e) Provide Foster Grandparents serving the station with:

(1) Orientation to the station and any in-service training necessary to enhance performance of assignments; and

(2) Resources required for performance of assignments, including reasonable accommodation, as needed, to enable Foster Grandparents with disabilities to perform the essential functions of their service; and

(f) Designate a staff member to oversee fulfillment of station responsibilities and supervision of Foster Grandparents while on assignment.

(g) Keep records and prepare reports required by the sponsor.

(h) Provide for the safety of Foster Grandparents assigned to it.

(i) Comply with all applicable civil rights laws and regulations, including providing Foster Grandparents with disabilities reasonable accommodation, to perform the essential functions of their service.

(j) Undertake such other responsibilities as may be necessary for the successful performance of Foster Grandparents in their assignments or as agreed to in the Memorandum of Understanding.
