
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2556 - VOLUNTEERS IN SERVICE TO AMERICA
##### Subpart B - VISTA Sponsors
###### ยง 2556.140 What is termination and when may CNCS terminate a VISTA project?

(a) Termination means any action by CNCS permanently terminating or curtailing assistance to all or any part of a sponsor's VISTA project prior to the time that the project term is concluded.

(b) CNCS may terminate assistance to a sponsor in whole or in part for the sponsor's material failure to comply with an applicable term(s) or condition(s) of the DVSA, the regulations in this part, VISTA program policy, or an applicable Memorandum of Agreement.

(c) To initiate termination proceedings, CNCS shall notify the sponsor in writing that CNCS is proposing to terminate assistance in whole or in part. The written notice shall contain the following:

(1) A description of the VISTA assistance proposed for termination, the grounds that warrant such proposed termination, and the proposed date of effective termination;

(2) Instructions regarding the sponsor's opportunity, within 21 calendar days from the date of issuance of the notice, to respond in writing to the merits of the proposed termination and instructions regarding the sponsor's right to request a full and fair hearing before a mutually agreed-upon impartial hearing officer; and

(3) Invitation of voluntary action by the sponsor to adequately correct the deficiency or deficiencies which led to CNCS's notice of proposed termination.

(d) In deciding whether to effect termination of VISTA assistance, CNCS shall consider any relevant, timely material presented in writing; any relevant material presented during the course of any full and fair hearing; as well as, any showing that the sponsor has adequately corrected the deficiency which led to the initiation of termination proceedings.

(e) Regardless of whether or not a full and fair hearing takes place, CNCS shall retain all authority to make the final determination as to whether the termination of VISTA assistance is appropriate.

(f) The sponsor shall be informed of CNCS's final determination on the proposed termination of VISTA assistance, and the basis or bases for the determination.

(g) CNCS may, in its discretion, modify the terms, conditions, and nature of a termination action or rescind a termination action at any time on its own initiative or upon a showing that the sponsor has adequately corrected the deficiency which led to the termination, or the initiation of termination proceedings, and that repetition is not threatened.
