
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2556 - VOLUNTEERS IN SERVICE TO AMERICA
##### Subpart D - Terms, Protections, and Benefits of VISTA Members
###### § 2556.365 May a VISTA appeal a grievance?

(a) The VISTA may appeal in writing to the appropriate Area Manager the response of the State Program Director to the grievance, as set forth in § 2556.360(b)(3). To be eligible to appeal a grievance response to the Area Manager, the VISTA must have exhausted all appropriate actions as set forth in § 2556.360.

(b) A VISTA's grievance appeal must be in writing and contain sufficient detail to identify the subject matter of the grievance, specify the relief requested, and be signed by the VISTA.

(c) The VISTA must submit a grievance appeal to the appropriate Area Manager no later than 10 calendar days after the State Program Director issues his or her response to the grievance.

(d) Certain matters contained in a grievance appeal may be rejected, rather than denied on the merits, by the Area Manager. A grievance appeal may be rejected, in whole or in part, for any of the following reasons:

(1) The grievance appeal was not submitted to the appropriate Area Manager within the time limit specified in paragraph (c) of this section;

(2) The grievance appeal consists of matters not contained within the definition of a grievance, as specified in section § 2556.350(a);

(3) The grievance appeal consists of matters excluded from the VISTA program grievance procedure, as specified in § 2556.350(b); or

(4) The grievance appeal contains matters that are moot, or for which relief has otherwise been granted.

(e) Within 14 calendar days of receipt of the grievance, the appropriate Area Manager shall decide the grievance appeal on the merits, or reject the grievance appeal in whole or in part, or both, as appropriate. The Area Manager shall notify the VISTA in writing of the decision and specify the grounds for the appeal decision. The appeal decision shall include a statement of the basis for the decision and is a final decision of CNCS.
