
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2556 - VOLUNTEERS IN SERVICE TO AMERICA
##### Subpart E - Termination for Cause Procedures
###### ยง 2556.425 May a VISTA appeal his or her termination for cause?

(a) Within 10 calendar days of the appropriate State Program Director's issuance of the decision to terminate the VISTA for cause, as set forth in ยง 2556.420(d), the VISTA may appeal the decision to the appropriate Area Manager. The appeal must be in writing and specify the reasons for the VISTA's disagreement with the decision.

(b) CNCS shall not incur any expenses or travel allowances for the VISTA in connection with the preparation or presentation of the appeal.

(c) The VISTA may have access to records as follows:

(1) The VISTA may review any material in the VISTA's official CNCS file and any relevant CNCS records to the extent permitted by the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, 552a. Examples of documents that may be withheld include references obtained under pledge of confidentiality, official files of other program participants, and privileged intra-agency documents.

(2) The VISTA may review relevant records in the possession of a sponsor to the extent such documents are disclosable by the sponsor under applicable freedom of information act and privacy laws.

(d) Within 14 calendar days of receipt of any appeal by the VISTA, the Area Manager or equivalent CNCS official shall issue a written appeal determination. The appeal determination shall indicate the reasons for such an appeal determination. The appeal determination shall be final.
