
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter XXV - Corporation for National and Community Service
#### PART 2556 - VOLUNTEERS IN SERVICE TO AMERICA
##### Subpart E - Termination for Cause Procedures
###### ยง 2556.420 What are termination for cause proceedings?

(a) Termination for cause proceedings are initiated by the State Program Director when CNCS removes a VISTA from a project assignment due to an alleged deficiency, or alleged deficiencies, in conduct or performance.

(b) The State Program Director or other CNCS State Office staff, to the extent practicable, communicates the matter with the VISTA who is removed from a VISTA project and the administrative procedures as set forth in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.

(c) The State Program Director shall notify VISTA in writing of CNCS's proposal to terminate for cause. The written proposal to terminate him or her for cause must give the VISTA the reason(s) for the proposed termination, and notify him or her that he or she has 10 calendar days within which to answer in writing the proposal to terminate him or her for cause, and to furnish any accompanying statements or written material. The VISTA must submit any answer to the appropriate State Program Director identified in the written proposal to terminate for cause within the deadline specified in the proposal to terminate for cause.

(d) Within 10 calendar days of the expiration of the VISTA's deadline to answer the proposal to terminate for cause, the appropriate State Program Director shall issue a written decision regarding the proposal to terminate for cause.

(1) If the decision is to terminate the VISTA for cause, the decision shall set forth the reasons for the determination and the effective date of termination (which may be on or after the date of the decision).

(2) If the decision is not to terminate the VISTA for cause, the decision shall indicate that the proposal to terminate for cause is rescinded.

(e) A VISTA who does not submit a timely answer to the appropriate State Program Director, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, is not entitled to appeal the decision regarding the proposal to terminate for cause. In such cases, CNCS may terminate the VISTA for cause, on the date identified in the decision, and the termination action is final.
