
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 5b - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 5b.6 Special procedures for notification of or access to medical records.
###### Requests on a minor's behalf; notification of or access to medical records to an individual on a minor's behalf.

(2)(i) In order to protect the privacy of a minor, a parent or guardian, authorized to act on a minor's behalf as provided in ยง 5b.10 of this part, who makes a request for notification of or access to a minor's medical record will not be given direct notification of or access to such record.

(ii) A parent or guardian shall make all requests for notification of or access to a minor's medical record in accordance with this paragraph and the procedures in ยง 5b.5 of this part. A parent or guardian shall at the time he makes a request designate a family physician or other health professional (other than a family member) to whom the record, if any, will be sent.

(iii) Where a medical record on the minor exists, it will be sent to the physician or health professional designated by the parent or guardian in all cases. If disclosure of the record would constitute an invasion of the minor's privacy, that fact will be brought to the attention of the physician or health professional to whom the record is sent. The physician or health professional will be asked to consider the effect that disclosure of the record to the parent or guardian would have on the minor in determining whether the minor's medical record should be made available to the parent or guardian. Response to the parent or guardian making the request will be made in substantially the following form:
