
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 5b - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 5b.8 Appeals of refusals to correct or amend records.
###### Processing the appeal.

(a)(1) A subject individual who disagrees with a refusal to correct or amend his record may appeal the refusal in writing. All appeals shall be made to the following appeal authorities, or their designees, or successors in function:

(i) Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management for records of the Office of the Secretary, or where the initial refusal to correct or amend was made by another appeal authority. The appeal authority for an initial refusal by the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management is the Under Secretary.

(ii) Assistant Secretary for Health for records of the Public Health Service including Office of Assistant Secretary for Health; Health Resources Administration; Health Services Administration; Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration; Center for Disease Control; National Institutes of Health; and Food and Drug Administration.

(iii) Assistant Secretary for Education for records of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Education, National Center for Education Statistics, National Institute of Education, and Office of Education.

(iv) Assistant Secretary for Human Development for records of the Office of Human Development.

(v) Commissioner of Social Security for records of the Social Security Administration.

(vi) Administrator, Social and Rehabilitation Service for the records of the Social and Rehabilitation Service.
