
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 80 - NONDISCRIMINATION UNDER PROGRAMS RECEIVING FEDERAL ASSISTANCE THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
##### Appendix A to Part 80 - Federal Financial Assistance to Which These Regulations Apply
###### et seq.

22. Grants, loans, and loan guarantees with interest subsidies for hospital and medical facilities (Title VI, Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 291).

23. Grants to States for community mental health centers construction (Community Mental Health Centers Act, Part A, 42 U.S.C. 2681-2687).

24. Cost of rehabilitation services (Title II, Social Security Act section 222(d); 42 U.S.C. 422(d)).

25. Surplus personal property disposal donations for health and educational purposes through State agencies (40 U.S.C. 484(j)).

26. Grants for State and community programs on aging (Title III, Older Americans Act, 42 U.S.C. 3021-3025).

27. Grants to States for planning, provision of services, and construction and operation of facilities for persons with developmental disabilities (42 U.S.C. 2670-2677c).

28. Grants to States for vocational rehabilitation services (29 U.S.C. 32); for innovation of vocational rehabilitation services (29 U.S.C. 33); and for rehabilitation facilities planning (29 U.S.C. 41a(g)(1)).

29. Designation of State licensing agency for blind operators of vending stands (20 U.S.C. 107-107f).
