
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 81 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR HEARINGS UNDER PART 80 OF THIS TITLE
##### Subpart H - Hearing Procedures
###### ยง 81.72 Evidentiary purpose.

(a) The hearing is directed to receiving factual evidence and expert opinion testimony related to the issues in the proceeding. Argument will not be received in evidence; rather it should be presented in statements, memoranda, or briefs, as determined by the presiding officer. Brief opening statements, which shall be limited to statement of the party's position and what he intends to prove, may be made at hearings.

(b) Hearings for the reception of evidence will be held only in cases where issues of fact must be resolved in order to determine whether the respondent has failed to comply with one or more applicable requirements of part 80 of this title. In any case where it appears from the respondent's answer to the notice of hearing or opportunity for hearing, from his failure timely to answer, or from his admissions or stipulations in the record, that there are no matters of material fact in dispute, the reviewing authority or presiding officer may enter an order so finding, vacating the hearing date if one has been set, and fixing the time for filing briefs under ยง 81.101. Thereafter the proceedings shall go to conclusion in accordance with subpart J of this part. The presiding officer may allow an appeal from such order in accordance with ยง 81.86.
