
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 5b - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
##### § 5b.11 Exempt systems.
###### Specific systems of records exempted.

(b)(1) Those systems of records listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are exempt from the following provisions of the Act and this part:

(i) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and paragraph (c)(2) of § 5b.9 of this part which require a subject individual to be granted access to an accounting of disclosures of a record.

(ii) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) (1) through (4) and (f) and §§ 5b.6, 5b.7, and 5b.8 of this part relating to notification of or access to records and correction or amendment of records.

(iii) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) (G) and (H) which require inclusion of information about Department procedures for notification, access, and correction or amendment of records in the notice for the systems of records.

(iv) 5 U.S.C. 552(e)(3) and paragraph (a)(3) of § 5b.4 of this part which require that an individual asked to provide a record to the Department be informed of the authority for providing the record (including whether the providing of the record is mandatory or voluntary, the principal purposes for maintaining the record, the routine uses for the record, and what effect his refusal to provide the record may have on him), and if the record is not required by statute or Executive Order to be provided by the individual, he agrees to provide the record. This exemption applies only to an investigatory record compiled by the Department for criminal law enforcement purposes in a system of records exempt under subsection (j)(2) of the Act to the extent that these requirements would prejudice the conduct of the investigation.

(2) The following systems of records are exempt from those provisions of the Act and this part listed in paragraph (b) (1) of this section.

(i) Pursuant to subsection (j)(2) of the Act:

(A) The Saint Elizabeths Hospital's Court-Ordered Forensic Investigatory Materials Files; and

(B) The Investigatory Material Compiled for Law Enforcement Purposes System, HHS.

(ii) Pursuant to subsection (k)(2) of the Act:

(A) The General Criminal Investigation Files, HHS/SSA;

(B) The Criminal Investigations File, HHS/SSA; and,

(C) The Program Integrity Case Files, HHS/SSA.

(D) Civil and Administrative Investigative Files of the Inspector General, HHS/OS/OIG.

(E) Complaint Files and Log. HHS/OS/OCR.

(F) Investigative materials compiled for law enforcement purposes for the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank (HIPDB), of the Office of Inspector General. (See § 61.15 of this title for access and correction rights under the HIPDB by subjects of the Data Bank.)

(G) Investigative materials compiled for law enforcement purposes for the Program Information Management System, HHS/OS/OCR.

(H) Investigative materials compiled for law enforcement purposes from the CMS Fraud Investigation Database (FID), HHS/CMS.

(I) Investigative materials compiled for law enforcement purposes from the Automated Survey Processing Environment (ASPEN) Complaints/ Incidents Tracking System (ACTS), HHS/CMS.

(J) Investigative materials compiled for law enforcement purposes from the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Information Tracking System (HITS), HHS/CMS.

(K) Investigative materials compiled for law enforcement purposes from the Organ Procurement Organizations System (OPOS), HHS/CMS.

(L) Investigative materials compiled for law enforcement purposes for the National Practitioner Data Bank (NPDB). (See § 60.21 of this subchapter for access and correction rights under the NPDB by subjects of the Data Bank.)

(iii) Pursuant to subsection (k)(4) of the Act:

(A) The Health and Demographic Surveys Conduct in Random Samples of the U.S. Population;

(B) The Health Manpower Inventories and Surveys;

(C) The Vital Statistics for Births, Deaths, Fetal Deaths, Marriages and Divorces Occurring in the U.S. during Each Year; and,

(D) The Maryland Psychiatric Case Register.

(E) The Health Resources Utilization Statistics, DHHS/OASH/NCHS.

(F) National Medical Expenditure Survey Records. HHS/OASH/NCHSR.

(iv) Pursuant to subsection (k)(5) of the Act:

(A) The Investigatory Material Compiled for Security and Suitability Purposes System, HHS;

(B) The Suitability for Employment Records, HHS; and

(C) NIH Electronic Research Administration (eRA) Records, HHS/NIH/OD/OER, 09-25-0225.

(v) Pursuant to subsections (j)(2), (k)(2), and (k)(5) of the Act:

(A) The Clinical Investigatory Records, HHS/FDA;

(B) The Regulated Industry Employee Enforcement Records, HHS/FDA;

(C) The Employee Conduct Investigative Records, HHS/FDA; and,

(D) The Service Contractor Employee Investigative Records, HHS/FDA.

(vi) Pursuant to subsection (k)(6) of the Act:

(A) The Personnel Research and Merit Promotion Test Records, HHS/SSA/OMA.

(B) [Reserved]

(vii) Pursuant to subsections (k)(2) and (k)(5) of the Act:

(A) Public Health Service Records Related to Investigations of Scientific Misconduct, HHS/OASH/ORI.

(B) Administration: Investigative Records, HHS/NIH/OM/OA/OMA.

(C) FDA Records Related to Research Misconduct Proceedings, HHS/FDA/OC, 09-10-0020.

(D) NIH Records Related to Research Misconduct Proceedings, HHS/NIH, 09-25-0223.

(viii)(A) HHS Insider Threat Program Records, 09-90-1701.

(B) [Reserved]

(3) The following systems of records are exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and § 5b.9(c)(3), which require a subject individual to be granted access to an accounting of disclosures of a record; and from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) through (4) and §§ 5b.5, 5b.7, and 5b.8, relating to notification of or access to records and correction or amendment of records.

(i) Pursuant to subsection (k)(5) of the Privacy Act:

(A) NIH Division of Loan Repayment Record System, 09-25-0165.

(B) [Reserved]

(ii) [Reserved]
