
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 83 - REGULATION FOR THE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF SECTIONS 799A AND 845 OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT
##### Subpart B - Discrimination in Admissions Prohibited
###### ยง 83.11 Discriminatory acts prohibited.
####### Housing.

(g)(1) An entity shall not, on the basis of sex, apply different rules or regulations, impose different fees or requirements, or offer different services or benefits related to housing, except as provided in this subsection (including housing provided only to married students).

(2) An entity may provide separate housing on the basis of sex.

(3) Housing provided by an entity to students of one sex, when compared to that provided to students of the other sex, shall be as a whole: (i) Proportionate in quantity to the number of students of that sex applying for such housing; and (ii) comparable in quality and cost to the student.

(4) An entity shall not on the basis of sex, administer different policies or practices concerning occupancy by its students of housing other than that provided by such recipient.

(5) An entity which, through solicitation, listing, approval of housing, or otherwise, assists any agency, organization, or person in making housing available to any of its students, shall take reasonable action to ensure that such housing is provided to students of one sex, when compared to that provided to students of the other sex, is as a whole: (i) Proportionate in quantity and (ii) comparable in quality and cost to the student. An entity may render such assistance to any agency, organization, or person which provides all or part of such housing to students only of one sex.
