
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 90 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart C - What are the Responsibilities of the Federal Agencies?
###### ยง 90.31 Issuance of regulations.

(a) The head of each agency which extends Federal financial assistance to any program or activity shall publish proposed and final age discrimination regulations in theto:

(1) Carry out the provisions of section 303 of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975; and

(2) Provide for appropriate investigative, conciliation, and enforcement procedures.

(b) Each agency shall publish its proposed agency age discrimination regulations no later than 90 days after the publication date of the final general, government-wide age discrimination regulations.

(c) Each agency shall submit its final agency regulations to HHS for review no later than 120 days after publication of proposed agency age discrimination regulations.

(d) Final agency age discrimination regulations shall be consistent with these general, government-wide age discrimination regulations and shall not be published until the Secretary approves them.

(e) Each agency shall include in its regulations a provision governing the operation of an alternate funds disbursal procedure as described in ยง 90.48 of these regulations.

(f) Each agency shall publish an appendix to its final age discrimination regulations containing a list of each age distinction provided in a Federal statute or in regulations affecting financial assistance administered by the agency.
