
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 12 - DISPOSAL AND UTILIZATION OF SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY FOR PUBLIC HEALTH PURPOSES
##### ยง 12.9 General disposal terms and conditions.

(a) Surplus real property transfers under this part will be limited to public health purposes. Transferees shall be entitled to a public benefit allowance in terms of a percentage which will be applied against the value of the property to be conveyed. Such an allowance will be computed on the basis of benefits to the United States from the use of such property for public health purposes. The computation of such public benefit allowances will be in accordance with Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof.

(b) A transfer of surplus real property for public health purposes is subject to the disapproval of the Administrator within 30 days after notice is given to him of the proposed transfer.

(c) Transfers will be on the following terms and conditions:

(1) The transferee will be obligated to utilize the property continuously in accordance with an approved plan of operation.

(2) The transferee will not be permitted to sell, lease or sublease, rent, mortgage, encumber, or otherwise dispose of the property, or any part thereof, without the prior written authorization of the Department.

(3) The transferee will file with the Department such reports covering the utilization of the property as may be required.

(4) In the event the property is sold, leased or subleased, encumbered, disposed of, or is used for purposes other than those set forth in the approved plan without the consent of the Department, all revenues or the reasonable value of other benefits received by the transferee directly or indirectly from such use, as determined by the Department, will be considered to have been received and held in trust by the transferee for the account of the United States and will be subject to the direction and control of the Department. The provisions of this paragraph shall not impair or affect the rights reserved to the United States in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, or the right of the Department to impose conditions to its consent.

(5) Lessees will be required to carry all perils and liability insurance to protect the Government and the Government's residual interest in the property. Transferees will be required to carry such flood insurance as may be required by the Department pursuant to Pub. L. 93-234. Where the transferee elects to carry insurance against damages to or loss of on-site property due to fire or other hazards, and where loss or damage to transferred Federal surplus real property occurs, all proceeds from insurance shall be promptly used by the transferee for the purpose of repairing and restoring the property to its former condition, or replacing it with equivalent or more suitable facilities. If not so used, there shall be paid to the United States that part of the insurance proceeds that is attributable to the Government's residual interest in the property lost, damaged, or destroyed in the case of leases, attributable to the fair market value of the leased facilities.

(6) With respect to on-site property, in the event of noncompliance with any of the conditions of the transfer as determined by the Department, title to the property transferred and the right to immediate possession shall, at the option of the Department, revert to the Government. In the event title is reverted to the United States for noncompliance or voluntarily reconveyed, the transferee shall, at the option of the Department, be required to reimburse the Government for the decrease in value of the property not due to reasonable wear and tear or acts of God or attributable to alterations completed by the transferee to adapt the property to the public health use for which the property was transferred. With respect to leased property, in the event of noncompliance with any of the conditions of the lease, as determined by the Department, the right of occupancy and possession shall, at the option of the Department, be terminated. In the event a leasehold is terminated by the United States for noncompliance or is voluntarily surrendered, the lessee shall be required at the option of the Department to reimburse the Government for the decrease in value of the property not due to reasonable wear and tear or acts of God or attributable to alterations completed by the lessee to adapt the property to the public health use for which the property was leased.

(7) With respect to off-site property, in the event of noncompliance with any of the terms and conditions of the transfer, the unearned public benefit allowance shall, at the option of the Department, become immediately due and payable or, if the property or any portion thereof is sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of without authorization from the Department, such sale, lease or sublease, or other disposal shall be for the benefit and account of the United States and the United States shall be entitled to the proceeds. In the event the transferee fails to remove the property or any portion thereof within the time specified, then in addition to the rights reserved above, at the option of the Department, all right, title, and interest in and to such unremoved property shall be retransferred to other eligible applicants or shall be forfeited to the United States.

(8) With respect only to on-site property which has been declared excess by the Department of Defense, such declaration having included a statement indicating the property has a known potential for use during a national emergency, the Department shall reserve the right during any period of emergency declared by the President of the United States or by the Congress of the United States to the full and unrestricted use by the Government of the surplus real property, or of any portion thereof, disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this part. Such use may be either exclusive or nonexclusive. Prior to the expiration or termination of the period of restricted use by the transferee, the Government will not be obligated to pay rent or any other fees or charges during the period of emergency, except that the Government will:

(i) Bear the entire cost of maintenance of such portion of the property used by it exclusively or over which it may have exclusive possession or control;

(ii) Pay the fair share, commensurate with the use of the cost of maintenance of such surplus real property as it may use nonexclusively or over which it may have nonexclusive possession or control;

(iii) Pay a fair rental for the use of improvements or additions to the surplus real property made by the purchaser or lessee without Government aid; and

(iv) Be responsible for any damage to the surplus real property caused by its use, reasonable wear and tear, the common enemy and acts of God excepted. Subsequent to the expiration or termination of the period of restricted use, the obligations of the Government will be as set forth in the preceding sentence and, in addition, the Government shall be obligated to pay a fair rental for all or any portion of the conveyed premises which it uses.

(9) The restrictions set forth in paragraphs (c) (1) through (7) of this section will extend for thirty (30) years for land with or without improvements; and for facilities being acquired separately from land whether they are for use on-site or off-site, the period of limitations on the use of the structures will be equal to their estimated economic life. The restrictions set forth in paragraphs (c) (1) through (7) of this section will extend for the entire initial lease period and for any renewal periods for property leased from the Department.

(d) Transferees, by obtaining the consent of the Department, may abrogate the restrictions set forth in paragraph (c) of this section for all or any portion of the property upon payment in cash to the Department of an amount equal to the then current fair market value of the property to be released, multiplied by the public benefit allowance granted at the time of conveyance, divided by the total number of months of the period of restriction set forth in the conveyance document and multiplied by the number of months that remain in the period of restriction as determined by the Department. For purposes of abrogation payment computation, the current fair market value shall not include the value of any improvements placed on the property by the transferee.

(e) Related personal property will be transferred or leased as a part of the realty and in accordance with real property procedures. It will be subject to the same public benefit allowance granted for the real property. Where related personal property is involved in an on-site transfer, the related personal property may be transferred by a bill of sale imposing restrictions for a period not to exceed five years from the date of transfer, other terms and conditions to be the same as, and made a part of, the real property transaction.
