
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 12 - DISPOSAL AND UTILIZATION OF SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY FOR PUBLIC HEALTH PURPOSES
##### ยง 12.11 Special terms and conditions.

(a) Applicants will be required to pay all external administrative costs which will include, but not be limited to, taxes, surveys, appraisals, inventory costs, legal fees, title search, certificate or abstract expenses, decontamination costs, moving costs, closing fees in connection with the transaction and service charges, if any, made by State Agencies for Federal Property Assistance under the terms of a cooperative agreement with the Department.

(b) In the case of off-site property, applicants will be required to post performance bonds, make performance guarantee deposits, or give such other assurances as may be required by the Department or the holding agency to insure adequate site clearance and to pay service charges, if any, made by State Agencies for Federal Property Assistance under the terms of a cooperative agreement with the Department.

(c) Whenever negotiations are undertaken for disposal to private nonprofit public health organizations of any surplus real property which cost the Government $1 million or more, the Department will give notice to the Attorney General of the United States of the proposed disposal and the terms and conditions thereof. The applicant shall furnish to the Department such information and documents as the Attorney General may determine to be appropriate or necessary to enable him to give the advice as provided for by section 207 of the Act.

(d) Where an applicant proposes to acquire or lease and use in place improvements located on land which the Government does not own, he shall be required, before the transfer is consummated, to obtain a right to use the land commensurate with the duration of the restrictions applicable to the improvements, or the term of the lease. The applicant will be required to assume, or obtain release of, the Government's obligations respecting the land including but not limited to obligations relating to restoration, waste, and rent. At the option of the Department, the applicant may be required to post a bond to indemnify the Government against such obligations.

(e) The Department may require the inclusion in the transfer or lease document of any other provision deemed desirable or necessary.

(f) Where an eligible applicant for an on-site transfer proposes to construct new, or rehabilitate old, facilities, the financing of which must be accomplished through issuance of revenue bonds having terms inconsistent with the terms and conditions of transfer prescribed in ยง 12.9 (c), (d), and (e) of this chapter, the Department may, in its discretion, impose such alternate terms and conditions of transfer in lieu thereof as may be appropriate to assure utilization of the property for public health purposes.
