
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 92 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF RACE, COLOR, NATIONAL ORIGIN, SEX, AGE, OR DISABILITY IN HEALTH PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AND PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES ADMINISTERED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES UNDER TITLE I OF THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE ACT OR BY ENTITIES ESTABLISHED UNDER SUCH TITLE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 92.6 Relationship to other laws.
####### et seq.,et seq.,et seq.

(b) Insofar as the application of any requirement under this part would violate, depart from, or contradict definitions, exemptions, affirmative rights, or protections provided by any of the statutes cited in paragraph (a) of this section or provided by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151); the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended by the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008 (42 U.S.C. 12181), Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d), the Coats-Snowe Amendment (42 U.S.C. 238n), the Church Amendments (42 U.S.C. 300a-7), the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (42 U.S.C. 2000bb), Section 1553 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18113), Section 1303 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18023), the Weldon Amendment (Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019, Pub. L. 115-245, Div. B sec. 209 and sec. 506(d) (Sept. 28, 2018)), or any related, successor, or similar Federal laws or regulations, such application shall not be imposed or required.
