
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 95 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION - GRANT PROGRAMS (PUBLIC ASSISTANCE, MEDICAL ASSISTANCE AND STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAMS)
##### Subpart E - Cost Allocation Plans
###### ยง 95.507 Plan requirements.

(a) The State shall submit a cost allocation plan for the State agency as required below to the Director, Division of Cost Allocation (DCA), in the approporiate HHS Regional Office. The plan shall:

(1) Describe the procedures used to identify, measure, and allocate all costs to each of the programs operated by the State agency;

(2) Conform to the accounting principles and standards prescribed in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-87, and other pertinent Department regulations and instructions;

(3) Be compatible with the State plan for public assistance programs described in 45 CFR Chapter II, III and XIII, and 42 CFR Chapter IV Subchapters C and D; and

(4) Contain sufficient information in such detail to permit the Director, Division of Cost Allocation, after consulting with the Operating Divisions, to make an informed judgment on the correctness and fairness of the State's procedures for identifying, measuring, and allocating all costs to each of the programs operated by the State agency.

(b) The cost allocation plan shall contain the following information:

(1) An organizational chart showing the placement of each unit whose costs are charged to the programs operated by the State agency.

(2) A listing of all Federal and all non-Federal programs performed, administered, or serviced by these organizational units.

(3) A description of the activities performed by each organizational unit and, where not self-explanatory an explanation of the benefits provided to Federal programs.

(4) The procedures used to identify, measure, and allocate all costs to each benefiting program and activity (including activities subject to different rates of FFP).

(5) The estimated cost impact resulting from the proposed changes to a previously approved plan. These estimated costs are required solely to permit an evaluation of the procedures used for identifying, measuring, and allocating costs. Therefore, approval of the cost allocation plan shall not constitute approval of these estimated costs for use in calculating claims for FFP. Where it is impractical to obtain this data, an alternative approach should then be negotiated with the Director, DCA, prior to submission of the cost allocation plan.

(6) A statement stipulating that wherever costs are claimed for services provided by a governmental agency outside the State agency, that they will be supported by a written agreement that includes, at a minimum (i) the specific service(s) being purchased, (ii) the basis upon which the billing will be made by the provider agency (e.g. time reports, number of homes inspected, etc.) and (iii) a stipulation that the billing will be based on the actual cost incurred. This statement would not be required if the costs involved are specifically addressed in a State-wide cost allocation plan, local-wide cost allocation plan, or an umbrella/department cost allocation plan.

(7) If the public assistance programs are administered by local government agencies under a State supervised system, the overall State agency cost allocation plan shall also include a cost allocation plan for the local agencies. It shall be developed in accordance with the requirements set forth above. More than one local agency plan shall be submitted if the accounting systems or other conditions at the local agencies preclude an equitable allocation of costs by the submission of a single plan for all local agencies. Prior to submitting multiple plans for local agencies, the State should consult with the Director, DCA. Where more than one local agency plan is submitted, the State shall identify the specific local agencies covered by each plan.

(8) A certification by a duly authorized official of the State stating:

(i) That the information contained in the proposed cost allocation plan was prepared in conformance with Office of Management and Budget Circular A-87.

(ii) That the costs are accorded consistent treatment through the application of generally accepted accounting principles appropriate to the circumstances.

(iii) That an adequate accounting and statistical system exists to support claims that will be made under the cost allocation plan; and

(iv) That the information provided in support of the proposed cost allocation plan is accurate.

(9) Other information as is necessary to establish the validity of the procedures used to identify, measure, and allocate costs to all programs being operated by the State agency.
