
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 95 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION - GRANT PROGRAMS (PUBLIC ASSISTANCE, MEDICAL ASSISTANCE AND STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAMS)
##### Subpart E - Cost Allocation Plans
###### ยง 95.519 Cost disallowance.

If costs under a Public Assistance program are not claimed in accordance with the approved cost allocation plan (except as otherwise provided in ยง 95.517), or if the State failed to submit an amended cost allocation plan as required by ยง 95.509, the costs improperly claimed will be disallowed.

(a)(1) If the issue affects the program(s) of only one Operating Division and does not affect the programs of other Operating Divisions or Federal departments, that Operating Division will determine the amount of the disallowance and will also inform the State of its opportunity for reconsideration of the determination in accordance with the Operating Division's procedures. Prior to issuing the notification, however, the Operating Division shall consult with the DCA to ensure that the issue does not affect the programs of other Operating Divisions or Federal departments.

(2) If the State wishes to request a reconsideration of the Operating Division's determination, it must submit the request in accordance with the Operating Division's procedures.

(b) If the issue affects the programs of more than one Operating Division, or Federal department or the State, the Director, DCA, after consulting with the Operating Divisions, shall determine the amount inappropriately claimed under each program. The Director, DCA will notify the State of this determination, of the dollar affect of the determination on the claims made under each program, and will inform the State of its opportunity for appeal of the determination under 45 CFR part 16. The State will subsequently be notified by the appropriate Operating Division as to the disposition of the funds in question.
