
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 95 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION - GRANT PROGRAMS (PUBLIC ASSISTANCE, MEDICAL ASSISTANCE AND STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAMS)
##### Subpart F - Automatic Data Processing Equipment and Services - Conditions for Federal Financial Participation (FFP)
###### Specific Conditions for FFP
####### ยง 95.611 Prior approval conditions.
######## Specific prior approval requirements.

(b)The State agency shall obtain written approval of the Department prior to the initiation of project activity.

(1) For regular FFP requests.

(i) For the Planning APD subject to the dollar thresholds specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(ii) For the Implementation APD subject to the dollar thresholds specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(iii) For acquisition documents, an exemption from prior Federal prior approval shall be assumed in the approval of the Planning, Annual or As-Needed APDU provided that:

(A) The acquisition summary provides sufficient detail to base an exemption request;

(B) The acquisition does not deviate from the terms of the exemption; and

(C) The acquisition is not the initial acquisition for a high risk activity, such as software application development. Acquisitions, whether exempted from prior Federal approval or not, must comply with the Federal provisions contained in ยง 95.610(c)(1)(viii) or (c)(2)(vi) or submit an Acquisition Checklist.

(iv) For noncompetitive acquisitions, including contract amendments, when the resulting contract is anticipated to exceed $1,000,000, States will be required to submit a sole source justification in addition to the acquisition document. The sole source justification can be provided as part of the Planning, Annual or As-Needed APDU.

(v) If the State does not opt for an exemption or submittal of an Acquisition Checklist for the contract, prior to the execution, the State will be required to submit the contract when it is anticipated to exceed the following thresholds, unless specifically exempted by the Department:

(A) Software application development-$6,000,000 or more (competitive) and $1,000,000 or more (noncompetitive);

(B) Hardware and Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) software-$20,000,000 or more (competitive) and $1,000,000 or more (noncompetitive);

(C) Operations and Software Maintenance acquisitions combined with hardware, COTS or software application development-the thresholds stated in ยง 95.611(b)(1)(v)(A) and (B) apply.

(vi) For contract amendments within the scope of the base contract, unless specifically exempted by the Department, prior to execution of the contract amendment involving contract cost increases which cumulatively exceed 20 percent of the base contract cost.

(2) For enhanced FFP requests.

(i) For the Planning APD.

(ii) For the Implementation APD.

(iii) For the acquisition solicitation documents and contract, unless specifically exempted by the Department, prior to release of the acquisition solicitation documents or prior to execution of the contract when the contract is anticipated to or will exceed $500,000.

(iv) For contract amendments, unless specifically exempted by the Department, prior to execution of the contract amendment, involving contract cost increases exceeding $500,000 or contract time extensions of more than 60 days.

(3) Failure to submit any of the above to the satisfaction of the Department may result in disapproval or suspension of project funding.
