
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 95 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION - GRANT PROGRAMS (PUBLIC ASSISTANCE, MEDICAL ASSISTANCE AND STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAMS)
##### Subpart F - Automatic Data Processing Equipment and Services - Conditions for Federal Financial Participation (FFP)
###### Specific Conditions for FFP
####### ยง 95.611 Prior approval conditions.
######## Specific approval requirements.

(c)The State agency shall obtain written approval from the Department:

(1) For regular FFP requests.

(i) For an annual APDU for projects with a total cost of more than $5,000,000, and projects with a total estimated cost of less than $5,000,000 only if requested by the Department.

(ii) For an "As Needed APDU" when changes cause any of the following:

(A) A projected cost increase of $1,000,000 or more.

(B) A schedule extension of more than 60 days for major milestones;

(C) A significant change in procurement approach, and/or scope of procurement activities beyond that approved in the APD;

(D) A change in system concept, or a change to the scope of the project;

(E) A change to the approved cost allocation methodology.

(2) For enhanced FFP requests.

(i) For an Annual APDU.

(ii) For an "As needed" APDU when changes cause any of the following:

(A) A projected cost increase of $300,000 or 10 percent of the project cost, whichever is less;

(B) A schedule extension of more than 60 days for major milestones. For Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) Family Assistance Management Information System (FAMIS)-type projects, in accordance with section 402(e)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act, any schedule change which affects the State's implementation date as specified in the approved APD requires that the Department recover 40 percent of the amount expended. The Secretary may extend the implementation date, if the implementation date is not met because of circumstances beyond the State's control. Examples of circumstances beyond the State's control are:

(1) Equipment failure due to physical damage or destruction; or,

(2) Change imposed by Federal judicial decisions, or by Federal legislation or regulations;

(C) A significant change in procurement approach, and/or a scope of procurement activities beyond that approved in the APD;

(D) A change in system concept or scope of the project;

(E) A change to the approved cost methodology;

(F) A change of more than 10% of estimated cost benefits.

(3) Failure to submit any of the above to the satisfaction of the Department may result in disapproval or suspension of project funding.
