
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 95 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION - GRANT PROGRAMS (PUBLIC ASSISTANCE, MEDICAL ASSISTANCE AND STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAMS)
##### Subpart G - Equipment Acquired Under Public Assistance Programs
###### ยง 95.707 Equipment management and disposition.

(a) Once equipment, whose costs are claimed for Federal financial participation (i.e., equipment that is capitalized and depreciated or is claimed in the period acquired), has reached the end of its useful life (as defined in an approved APD), the equipment shall be subject to the property disposal rules in ยง 75.320.

(b) The State agency is responsible for adequately managing the equipment, maintaining records on the equipment, and taking periodic physical inventories. Physical inventories may be made on the basis of statistical sampling. The following requirements apply to the disposition of this equipment:

(1) If the cost of the equipment was claimed in the period acquired and the equipment is later sold, the proceeds of the sale shall be credited to current expenditures in approximate proportion to the distribution of the equipment's cost.

(2) If the cost of the equipment was claimed in the period acquired and the equipment is later transferred to an activity which is not involved in the performance of programs currently or previously funded by the Federal Government, an amount equal to the fair market value of the equipment on the date of the transfer shall be credited to current expenditures in approximate proportion to the distribution of the equipment's costs.

(3) If the cost of the equipment was claimed in the period acquired and the equipment is later traded in on other equipment claims for Federal financial participation in the costs of replacement equipment shall be limited to the additional outlay.

(4) If the equipment was depreciated, any gain or loss on the disposition of the equipment shall be treated as a decrease or an increase to the depreciation expense of the period in which the disposition takes place. This provision does not apply to equipment whose costs were claimed for Federal financial participation through use allowances.
