
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart B - General Procedures
###### ยง 96.14 Time period for obligation and expenditure of grant funds.
####### Low-income home energy assistance.

(2)Regular LIHEAP block grant funds authorized under section 2602(b) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8621(b)) are available only in accordance with section 2607(b)(2)(B) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8626(b)(2)(B)), as follows. From allotments for fiscal year 1982 through fiscal year 1984, a maximum of 25 percent may be held available for the next fiscal year. From allotments for fiscal year 1985 through fiscal year 1990, a maximum of 15 percent of the amount payable to a grantee and not transferred to another block grant according to section 2604(f) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8623(f)) may be held available for the next fiscal year. From allotments for fiscal year 1991 through fiscal year 1993, a maximum of 10 percent of the amount payable to a grantee and not transferred to another block grant according to section 2604(f) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8623(f)) may be held available for the next fiscal year. Beginning with allotments for fiscal year 1994, a maximum of 10 percent of the amount payable to a grantee may be held available for the next fiscal year. No funds may be obligated after the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which they were allotted.
