
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Direct Funding of Indian Tribes and Tribal Organizations
###### ยง 96.44 Community services.
####### eligible Indian,eligible individual

(c) For purposes of section 674(c)(2) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9903(c)(2)) anmeans a member of an Indian tribe whose income is at or below the poverty line defined in section 673(2) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)). Anunder section 674(c)(2) of the Reconciliation Act (42 U.S.C. 9903(c)(2)) means a resident of the State whose income is at or below the poverty line.

(d) An Indian tribe or tribal organization will meet the requirements of section 675(c)(1) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(1)) if it certifies that it agrees to use the funds to provide at least one of the services or activities listed in that section.

(e) An Indian tribe or tribal organization is not required to comply with section 675(b) (42 U.S.C. 9904(b)) or to provide the certifications required by the following other provisions of the Reconciliation Act.

(1) Section 675(c)(2)(A) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(2)(A));

(2) Section 675(c)(3) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(3)); and

(3) Section 675(c)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(4)).

(4) Section 675(c)(11) (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(11)).

(f) In each fiscal year, Indian tribes and tribal organizations may expend for administrative expenses-comparable to the administrative expenses incurred by State at the State level-an amount not to exceed the greater of the amounts determined by:

(1) Multiplying their allotment under section 674 of the Reconciliation Act (42 U.S.C. 9903) by five percent; or

(2) Multiplying the allotment by the percentage represented by the ratio of $55,000 to the smallest State allotment (excluding territorial allotments) for that fiscal year.
