
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart G - Social Services Block Grants
###### ยง 96.74 Annual reporting requirements.
####### Reporting requirement.

(b)(1) Each state must use the uniform definitions of services in appendix A of this part, categories 1-28, in submitting the data required in paragraph (a) of this section. Where a state cannot use the uniform definitions, it should report the data under category 29, "Other Services." The state's definitions of each of the services listed in category 29 must be included in the annual report.

(2) Each state must use the reporting form issued by the Department to report the data required in paragraphs (a) (1) through (4) of this section.

(3) In reporting recipient and expenditure data, each state must report actual numbers of recipients and actual expenditures when this information is available. For purposes of this report, each state should, if possible, count only a single recipient for each service. States should also consider a service provided to a recipient for the length of the reporting period (one year) or any fraction thereof as a single service. Data based on sampling and/or estimates will be accepted when actual figures are unavailable. Each state must indicate for each service whether the data are based on actual figures, sampling, or estimates and must describe the sampling and/or estimation process(es) it used to obtain these data in the annual report. Each state must also indicate, in reporting recipient data, whether the data reflects an unduplicated count of recipients.

(4) Each state must use category 30, "Other Expenditures," to report non-service expenditures. Only total dollar amounts in this category are required, i.e., they need not be reported by recipient count or cost per adult/child. This will include carry over balances, carry forward balances, funds transferred to or from the SSBG program, and administrative costs as defined by the state.

(5) Each state must use its own definition of the terms "child" and "adult" in reporting the data required in paragraphs (a) (1) through (5) of this section.

(6) Each state's definition of "child" and "adult" must be reported as a part of the eligibility criteria for each service required in paragraph (a)(5) of this section. The data on eligibility criteria may be submitted in whatever format the state chooses as a part of its annual report.
