
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart H - Low-income Home Energy Assistance Program
###### ยง 96.87 Leveraging incentive program.
####### Scope and eligible grantees.

(a)(1) This section concerns the leveraging incentive program authorized by section 2607A of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8626a).

(2)(i) The only entities eligible to receive leveraging incentive funds from the Department are States (including the District of Columbia), Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and territories that received direct Federal LIHEAP funding under section 2602(b) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8621(b)) in both the base period for which leveraged resources are reported, and the award period for which leveraging incentive funds are sought; and tribes and tribal organizations described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

(ii) Indian tribes that received LIHEAP services under section 2602(b) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8621(b)) through a directly-funded tribal organization in the base period for which leveraged resources are reported, and receive direct Federal LIHEAP funding under section 2602(b) in the award period, will receive leveraging incentive funds allocable to them if they submit leveraging reports meeting all applicable requirements. If the tribal organization continues to receive direct funding under section 2602(b) in the award period, the tribal organization also will receive incentive funds allocable to it if it submits a leveraging report meeting all applicable requirements. In such cases, incentive funds will be allocated among the involved entities that submit leveraging reports, as agreed by these entities. If they cannot agree, HHS will allocate incentive funds based on the comparative role of each entity in obtaining and/or administering the leveraged resources, and/or their relative number of LIHEAP-eligible households.

(iii) If a tribe received direct Federal LIHEAP funding under section 2602(b) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8621(b)) in the base period for which resources leveraged by the tribe are reported, and the tribe receives LIHEAP services under section 2602(b) through a directly-funded tribal organization in the award period, the tribal organization will receive leveraging incentive funds on behalf of the tribe for the resources if the tribal organization submits a leveraging report meeting all applicable requirements.
