
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart H - Low-income Home Energy Assistance Program
###### ยง 96.87 Leveraging incentive program.
####### Basic requirements for leveraged resources and benefits.

(d)(1) In order to be counted under the leveraging incentive program, leveraged resources and benefits must meet all of the following five criteria:

(i) They are from non-Federal sources.

(ii) They are provided to the grantee's low-income home energy assistance program, or to federally qualified low-income households as described in section 2605(b)(2) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8624(b)(2)).

(iii) They are measurable and quantifiable in dollars.

(iv) They represent a net addition to the total home energy resources available to low-income households in excess of the amount of such resources that could be acquired by these households through the purchase of home energy, or the purchase of items that help these households meet the cost of home energy, at commonly available household rates or costs, or that could be obtained with regular LIHEAP allotments provided under section 2602(b) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8621(b)).

(v) They meet the requirements for countable leveraged resources and benefits throughout this section and section 2607A of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8626a).

(2) Also, in order to be counted under the leveraging incentive program, leveraged resources and benefits must meet at least one of the following three criteria:

(i) The grantee's LIHEAP program had an active, substantive role in developing and/or acquiring the resource/benefits from home energy vendor(s) through negotiation, regulation, and/or competitive bid. The actions or efforts of one or more staff of the grantee's LIHEAP program-at the central and/or local level-and/or one or more staff of LIHEAP program subrecipient(s) acting in that capacity, were substantial and significant in obtaining the resource/benefits from the vendor(s).

(ii) The grantee appropriated or mandated the resource/benefits for distribution to low-income households through (that is, within and as a part of) its LIHEAP program. The resource/benefits are provided through the grantee's LIHEAP program to low-income households eligible under the grantee's LIHEAP standards, in accordance with the LIHEAP statute and regulations and consistent with the grantee's LIHEAP plan and program policies that were in effect during the base period, as if they were provided from the grantee's Federal LIHEAP allotment.

(iii) The grantee appropriated or mandated the resource/benefits for distribution to low-income households as described in its LIHEAP plan (referred to in section 2605(c)(1)(A) of Public Law 97-35) (42 U.S.C. 8624(c)(1)(A)). The resource/benefits are provided to low-income households as a supplement and/or alternative to the grantee's LIHEAP program, outside (that is, not through, within, or as a part of) the LIHEAP program. The resource/benefits are integrated and coordinated with the grantee's LIHEAP program. Before the end of the base period, the plan identifies and describes the resource/benefits, their source(s), and their integration/coordination with the LIHEAP program. The Department will determine resources/benefits to be integrated and coordinated with the LIHEAP program if they meet at least one of the following eight conditions. If a resource meets at least one of conditions A through F when the grantee's LIHEAP program is operating (and meets all other applicable requirements), the resource also is countable when the LIHEAP program is not operating.

(A) For all households served by the resource, the assistance provided by the resource depends on and is determined by the assistance provided to these households by the grantee's LIHEAP program in the base period. The resource supplements LIHEAP assistance that was not sufficient to meet households' home energy needs, and the type and amount of assistance provided by the resource is directly affected by the LIHEAP assistance received by the households.

(B) Receipt of LIHEAP assistance in the base period is necessary to receive assistance from the resource. The resource serves only households that received LIHEAP assistance in the base period.

(C) Ineligibility for the grantee's LIHEAP program, or denial of LIHEAP assistance in the base period because of unavailability of LIHEAP funds, is necessary to receive assistance from the resource.

(D) For discounts and waivers: eligibility for and/or receipt of assistance under the grantee's LIHEAP program in the base period, and/or eligibility under the Federal standards set by section 2605(b)(2) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8624(b)(2)), is necessary to receive the discount or waiver.

(E) During the period when the grantee's LIHEAP program is operating, staff of the grantee's LIHEAP program and/or staff assigned to the LIHEAP program by a local LIHEAP administering agency or agencies, and staff assigned to the resource communicate orally and/or in writing about how to meet the home energy needs of specific, individual households. For the duration of the LIHEAP program, this communication takes place before assistance is provided to each household to be served by the resource, unless the applicant for assistance from the resource presents documentation of LIHEAP eligibility and/or the amount of LIHEAP assistance received or to be received.

(F) A written agreement between the grantee's LIHEAP program or local LIHEAP administering agency, and the agency administering the resource, specifies the following about the resource: eligibility criteria; benefit levels; period of operation; how the LIHEAP program and the resource are integrated/coordinated; and relationship between LIHEAP eligibility and/or benefit levels, and eligibility and/or benefit levels for the resource. The agreement provides for annual or more frequent reports to be provided to the LIHEAP program by the agency administering the resource.

(G) The resource accepts referrals from the grantee's LIHEAP program, and as long as the resource has benefits available, it provides assistance to all households that are referred by the LIHEAP program and that meet the resource's eligibility requirements. Under this condition, only the benefits provided to households referred by the LIHEAP program are countable.

(H) Before the grantee's LIHEAP heating, cooling, crisis, and/or weatherization assistance component(s) open and/or after the grantee's LIHEAP heating, cooling, crisis, and/or weatherization assistance component(s) close for the season or for the fiscal year, or before the entire LIHEAP program opens and/or after the entire LIHEAP program closes for the season or for the fiscal year, the resource is made available specifically to fill the gap caused by the absence of the LIHEAP component(s) or program. The resource is not available while the LIHEAP component(s) or program is operating.
