
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart H - Low-income Home Energy Assistance Program
###### ยง 96.87 Leveraging incentive program.
####### Valuation and documentation of leveraged resources and offsetting costs.

(g)(1) Leveraged cash resources will be valued at the fair market value of the benefits they provided to low-income households, as follows. Payments to or on behalf of low-income households for heating, cooling, and energy crisis assistance will be valued at their actual amount or value at the time they were provided. Purchased fuel, weatherization materials, and other countable tangible items will be valued at their fair market value (the commonly available household rate or cost in the local market area) at the time they were purchased. Installation, replacement, and repair of weatherization materials, and other countable services, will be valued at rates consistent with those ordinarily paid for similar work, by persons of similar skill in this work, in the grantee's or subrecipient's organization in the local area, at the time these services were provided. If the grantee or subrecipient does not have employees performing similar work, the rates will be consistent with those ordinarily paid by other employers for similar work, by persons of similar skill in this work, in the same labor market, at the time these services were provided. Fringe benefits and overhead costs will not be counted.

(2) Home energy discounts, waivers, and credits will be valued at their actual amount or value.

(3) Donated fuel, donated weatherization materials, and other countable donated tangible items will be valued at their fair market value (the commonly available household cost in the local market area) at the time of donation.

(4) Donated unpaid services, and donated third-party paid services that are not in the employee's normal line of work, will be valued at rates consistent with those ordinarily paid for similar work, by persons of similar skill in this work, in the grantee's or subrecipient's organization in the local area, at the time these services were provided. If the grantee or subrecipient does not have employees performing similar work, the rates will be consistent with those ordinarily paid by other employers for similar work, by persons of similar skill in this work, in the same labor market, at the time these services were provided. Fringe benefits and overhead costs will not be counted. Donated third-party paid services of employees in their normal line of work will be valued at the employee's regular rate of pay, excluding fringe benefits and overhead costs.

(5) Offsetting costs and charges will be valued at their actual amount or value.

(i) Funds from grantees' regular LIHEAP allotments that are used specifically to identify, develop, and demonstrate leveraging programs under section 2607A(c)(2) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8626a(c)(2)) will be deducted as offsetting costs in the base period in which these funds are obligated, whether or not there are any resulting leveraged benefits. Costs incurred from grantees' own funds to identify, develop, and demonstrate leveraging programs will be deducted in the first base period in which resulting leveraged benefits are provided to low-income households. If there is no resulting leveraged benefit from the expenditure of the grantee's own funds, the grantee's expenditure will not be counted or deducted.

(ii) Any costs assessed or charged to low-income households on a continuing or on-going basis, year after year, specifically to participate in a counted leveraging program or to receive counted leveraged resources/benefits will be deducted in the base period these costs are paid. Any one-time costs or charges to low-income households specifically to participate in a counted leveraging program or to receive counted leveraged resources/benefits will be deducted in the first base period the leveraging program or resource is counted. Such costs or charges will be subtracted from the gross value of a counted resource or benefit for low-income households whose benefits are counted, but not for any households whose benefits are not counted.

(6) Only the amount of the net addition to recipient low-income households' home energy resources may be counted in the valuation of a leveraged resource.

(7) Leveraged resources and benefits, and offsetting costs and charges, will be valued according to the best data available to the grantee.

(8) Grantees must maintain, or have readily available, records sufficient to document leveraged resources and benefits, and offsetting costs and charges, and their valuation. These records must be retained for three years after the end of the base period whose leveraged resources and benefits they document.
