
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart H - Low-income Home Energy Assistance Program
###### ยง 96.87 Leveraging incentive program.
####### Leveraging report.

(h)(1) In order to qualify for leveraging incentive funds, each grantee desiring such funds must submit to the Department a report on the leveraged resources provided to low-income households during the preceding base period. These reports must contain the following information in a format established by the Department.

(i) For each separate leveraged resource, the report must:

(A) Briefly describe the specific leveraged resource and the specific benefit(s) provided to low-income households by this resource, and state the source of the resource;

(B) State whether the resource was acquired in cash, as a discount/waiver, or as an in-kind contribution;

(C) Indicate the geographical area in which the benefit(s) were provided to recipients;

(D) State the month(s) and year(s) when the benefit(s) were provided to recipients;

(E) State the gross dollar value of the countable benefits provided by the resource as determined in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, indicate the source(s) of the data used, and describe how the grantee quantified the value and calculated the total amount;

(F) State the number of low-income households to whom the benefit(s) were provided, and state the eligibility standard(s) for the low-income households to whom the benefit(s) were provided;

(G) Indicate the agency or agencies that administered the resource/benefit(s); and

(H) Indicate the criterion or criteria for leveraged resources in paragraph (d)(2) of this section that the resource/benefits meet, and for criteria in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(iii) of this section, explain how resources/benefits valued at $5,000 or more meet the criterion or criteria.

(ii) State the total gross dollar value of the countable leveraged resources and benefits provided to low-income households during the base period (the sum of the amounts listed pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(E) of this section).

(iii) State in dollars any costs incurred by the grantee to leverage resources, and any costs and charges imposed on low-income households to participate in a counted leveraging program or to receive counted leveraged benefits, as determined in accordance with paragraph (g)(5) of this section. Also state the amount of the grantee's regular LIHEAP allotment that the grantee used during the base period specifically to identify, develop, and demonstrate leveraging programs under section 2607A(c)(2) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8626a(c)(2)).

(iv) State the net dollar value of the countable leveraged resources and benefits for the base period. (Subtract the amounts in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section from the amount in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section.)

(2) Leveraging reports must be postmarked or hand-delivered not later than November 30 of the fiscal year for which leveraging incentive funds are requested.

(3) The Department may require submission of additional documentation and/or clarification as it determines necessary to verify information in a grantee's leveraging report, to determine whether a leveraged resource is countable, and/or to determine the net valuation of a resource. In such cases, the Department will set a date by which it must receive information sufficient to document countability and/or valuation. In such cases, if the Department does not receive information that it considers sufficient to document countability and/or valuation by the date it has set, then the Department will not count the resource (or portion of resource) in question.
