
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart H - Low-income Home Energy Assistance Program
###### ยง 96.87 Leveraging incentive program.
####### Uses of leveraging incentive funds.

(j)(1) Funds awarded to grantees under the leveraging incentive program must be used to increase or maintain heating, cooling, energy crisis, and/or weatherization benefits through (that is, within and as a part of) the grantee's LIHEAP program. These funds can be used for weatherization without regard to the weatherization maximum in section 2605(k) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8624(k)). However, they cannot be counted in the base for calculation of the weatherization maximum for regular LIHEAP funds authorized under section 2602(b) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8621(b)). Leveraging incentive funds cannot be used for costs of planning and administration. However, in either the award period or the fiscal year following the award period, they can be counted in the base for calculation of maximum grantee planning and administrative costs under section 2605(b)(9) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8624(b)(9)). They cannot be counted in the base for calculation of maximum carryover of regular LIHEAP funds authorized under section 2602(b) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8621(b)).

(2) Grantees must include the uses of leveraging incentive funds in their LIHEAP plans (referred to in section 2605(c)(1)(A) of Public Law 97-35) (42 U.S.C. 8624(c)(1)(A)) for the fiscal year in which the grantee obligates these funds. Grantees must document uses of leveraging incentive funds in the same way they document uses of regular LIHEAP funds authorized under section 2602(b) of Public Law 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8621(b)). Leveraging incentive funds are subject to the same audit requirements as regular LIHEAP funds.
