
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart H - Low-income Home Energy Assistance Program
###### ยง 96.89 Exemption from standards for providing energy crisis intervention assistance.

The performance standards in section 2604(c) of Pub. L. 97-35 (42 U.S.C. 8623), as amended by section 502(a) of the Human Services Reauthorization Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-425)-concerning provision of energy crisis assistance within specified time limits, acceptance of applications for energy crisis benefits at geographically accessible sites, and provision to physically infirm low-income persons of the means to apply for energy crisis benefits at their residences or to travel to application sites-shall not apply under the conditions described in this section.

(a) These standards shall not apply to a program in a geographical area affected by (1) a major disaster or emergency designated by the President under the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, or (2) a natural disaster identified by the chief executive officer of a State, territory, or direct-grant Indian tribe or tribal organization, if the Secretary (or his or her designee) determines that the disaster or emergency makes compliance with the standards impracticable.

(b) The Secretary's determination will be made after communication by the chief executive officer (or his or her designee) to the Secretary (or his or her designee) of the following:

(1) Information substantiating the existence of a disaster or emergency;

(2) Information substantiating the impracticability of compliance with the standards, including a description of the specific conditions caused by the disaster or emergency which make compliance impracticable; and

(3) Information on the expected duration of the conditions that make compliance impracticable.

(4) Evidence of the appropriate delegation of authority.

(c) The initial communication by the chief executive officer may be oral or written. If oral, it must be followed as soon as possible by written communication confirming the information provided orally. The Secretary's exemption initially may be oral. If so, the Secretary will provide written confirmation of the exemption as soon as possible after receipt of appropriate written communication from the chief executive officer.

(d) Exemption from the standards shall apply from the moment of the Secretary's determination, only in the geographical area affected by the disaster or emergency, and only for so long as the Secretary determines that the disaster or emergency makes compliance with the standards impracticable.
