
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 96 - BLOCK GRANTS
##### Subpart L - Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant
###### ยง 96.126 Capacity of treatment for intravenous substance abusers.

(a) In order to obtain Block Grant funds, the State must require programs that receive funding under the grant and that treat individuals for intravenous substance abuse to provide to the State, upon reaching 90 percent of its capacity to admit individuals to the program, a notification of that fact within seven days. In carrying out this section, the State shall establish a capacity management program which reasonably implements this section-that is, which enables any such program to readily report to the State when it reaches 90 percent of its capacity-and which ensures the maintenance of a continually updated record of all such reports and which makes excess capacity information available to such programs.

(b) In order to obtain Block Grant funds, the State shall ensure that each individual who requests and is in need of treatment for intravenous drug abuse is admitted to a program of such treatment not later than-

(1) 14 days after making the request for admission to such a program; or

(2) 120 days after the date of such request, if no such program has the capacity to admit the individual on the date of such request and if interim services, including referral for prenatal care, are made available to the individual not later than 48 hours after such request.

(c) In carrying out subsection (b), the State shall establish a waiting list management program which provides systematic reporting of treatment demand. The State shall require that any program receiving funding from the grant, for the purposes of treating injecting drug abusers, establish a waiting list that includes a unique patient identifier for each injecting drug abuser seeking treatment including those receiving interim services, while awaiting admission to such treatment. For individuals who cannot be placed in comprehensive treatment within 14 days, the State shall ensure that the program provide such individuals interim services as defined in ยง 96.121 and ensure that the programs develop a mechanism for maintaining contact with the individuals awaiting admission. The States shall also ensure that the programs consult the capacity management system as provided in paragraph (a) of this section so that patients on waiting lists are admitted at the earliest possible time to a program providing such treatment within reasonable geographic area.

(d) In carrying out paragraph (b)(2) of this section the State shall ensure that all individuals who request treatment and who can not be placed in comprehensive treatment within 14 days, are enrolled in interim services and those who remain active on a waiting list in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, are admitted to a treatment program within 120 days. If a person cannot be located for admission into treatment or, if a person refuses treatment, such persons may be taken off the waiting list and need not be provided treatment within 120 days. For example, if such persons request treatment later, and space is not available, they are to be provided interim services, placed on a waiting list and admitted to a treatment program within 120 days from the latter request.

(e) The State shall require that any entity that receives funding for treatment services for intravenous drug abuse carry out activities to encourage individuals in need of such treatment to undergo such treatment. The States shall require such entities to use outreach models that are scientifically sound, or if no such models are available which are applicable to the local situation, to use an approach which reasonably can be expected to be an effective outreach method. The model shall require that outreach efforts include the following:

(1) Selecting, training and supervising outreach workers;

(2) Contacting, communicating and following-up with high risk substance abusers, their associates, and neighborhood residents, within the constraints of Federal and State confidentiality requirements, including 42 CFR part 2;

(3) Promoting awareness among injecting drug abusers about the relationship between injecting drug abuse and communicable diseases such as HIV;

(4) Recommend steps that can be taken to ensure that HIV transmission does not occur; and

(5) Encouraging entry into treatment.

(f) The State shall develop effective strategies for monitoring programs compliance with this section. States shall report under the requirements of ยง 96.122(g) on the specific strategies to be used to identify compliance problems and corrective actions to be taken to address those problems.
