
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 98 - CHILD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT FUND
##### Subpart B - General Application Procedures
###### ยง 98.14 Plan process.
####### et seq.,,et seq.

(xii) Medicaid and the State children's health insurance programs (42 U.S.C. 13961397aa);

(xiii) Mental health services; and

(xiv) Child care resources and referral agencies, child care consumer education organizations, and providers of early childhood education training and professional development.

(2) Provide a description of the results of the coordination with each of these agencies in the CCDF Plan.

(3) If the Lead Agency elects to combine funding for CCDF services with any other early childhood program, provide a description in the CCDF Plan of how the Lead Agency will combine and use the funding.

(4) Demonstrate in the CCDF Plan how the State, Territory, or Tribe encourages partnerships among its agencies, other public agencies, Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations, and private entities, including faith-based and community-based organizations, to leverage existing service delivery systems for child care and development services and to increase the supply and quality of child care and development services and to increase the supply and quality of child care services for children who are less than 13 years of age, such as by implementing voluntary shared service alliance models.

(b) Consult with appropriate representatives of local governments;

(c)(1) Hold at least one hearing in the State, after at least 20 days of statewide public notice, to provide to the public an opportunity to comment on the provision of child care services under the Plan.

(2) The hearing required by paragraph (c)(1) shall be held before the Plan is submitted to ACF, but no earlier than nine months before the Plan becomes effective.

(3) In advance of the hearing required by this section, the Lead Agency shall make available to the public the content of the Plan as described in ยง 98.16 that it proposes to submit to the Secretary, which shall include posting the Plan content on a Web site.

(d) Make the submitted and final Plan, any Plan amendments, and any approved requests for temporary relief (in accordance with ยง 98.19) publicly available on a Web site.
