
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 98 - CHILD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT FUND
##### Subpart G - Financial Management
###### ยง 98.61 Allotments from the Discretionary Fund.
####### et seq.

(c) For Indian Tribes and tribal organizations, including any Alaskan Native Village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601) not less than two percent of the amount appropriated for the Child Care and Development Block Grant shall be reserved.

(1) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, grants to individual tribal grantees will be equal to the sum of:

(i) A base amount as set by the Secretary; and

(ii) An additional amount per Indian child under age 13 (or such similar age as determined by the Secretary from the best available data), which is determined by dividing the amount of funds available, less amounts set aside for eligible Tribes, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, by the number of all Indian children living on or near tribal reservations or other appropriate area served by the tribal grantee, pursuant to ยง 98.80(e).

(2) Grants to Tribes with fewer than 50 Indian children that apply as part of a consortium, pursuant to ยง 98.80(b)(1), are equal to the sum of:

(i) A portion of the base amount, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, that bears the same ratio as the number of Indian children in the Tribe living on or near the reservation, or other appropriate area served by the tribal grantee, pursuant to ยง 98.80(e), does to 50; and

(ii) An additional amount per Indian child, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(3) Tribal consortia will receive grants that are equal to the sum of the individual grants of their members.

(d) All funds reserved for Territories at paragraph (b) of this section will be allotted to Territories, and all funds reserved for Tribes at paragraph (c) of this section will be allotted to tribal grantees. Any funds that are returned by the Territories after they have been allotted will revert to the Federal government.

(e) For other organizations, up to $2,000,000 may be reserved from the tribal funds reserved at paragraph (c) of this section. From this amount the Secretary may award a grant to a Native Hawaiian Organization, as defined in section 4009(4) of the Augustus F. Hawkins-Robert T. Stafford Elementary and Secondary School Improvement Amendments of 1988 (20 U.S.C. 4909(4)) and to a private non-profit organization established for the purpose of serving youth who are Indians or Native Hawaiians. The Secretary will establish selection criteria and procedures for the award of grants under this subsection by notice in the

(f) Lead Agencies shall expend any funds that may be set-aside for targeted activities pursuant to annual appropriations law as directed by the Secretary.
