
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 98 - CHILD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT FUND
##### Subpart G - Financial Management
###### § 98.64 Reallotment and redistribution of funds.

(a) According to the provisions of this section State and Tribal Discretionary Funds are subject to reallotment, and State Matching Funds are subject to redistribution. State funds are reallotted or redistributed only to States as defined for the original allocation. Tribal funds are reallotted only to Tribes. Funds granted to the Territories are not subject to reallotment. Any funds granted to the Territories that are returned after they have been allotted will revert to the Federal government.

(b) Any portion of a State's Discretionary Fund allotment that is not required to carry out its Plan, in the period for which the allotment is made available, shall be reallotted to other States in proportion to the original allotments. For purposes of this paragraph the term "State" means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The other Territories and the Tribes may not receive reallotted State Discretionary Funds.

(1) Each year, the State shall report to the Secretary either the dollar amount from the previous year's grant that it will be unable to obligate by the end of the obligation period or that all funds will be obligated during such time. Such report shall be postmarked by April 1st.

(2) Based upon the reallotment reports submitted by States, the Secretary will reallot funds.

(i) If the total amount available for reallotment is $25,000 or more, funds will be reallotted to States in proportion to each State's allotment for the applicable fiscal year's funds, pursuant to § 98.61(a).

(ii) If the amount available for reallotment is less than $25,000, the Secretary will not reallot any funds, and such funds will revert to the Federal government.

(iii) If an individual reallotment amount to a State is less than $500, the Secretary will not issue the award, and such funds will revert to the Federal government.

(3) If a State does not submit a reallotment report by the deadline for report submittal, either:

(i) The Secretary will determine that the State does not have any funds available for reallotment; or

(ii) In the case of a report postmarked after April 1st, any funds reported to be available for reallotment shall revert to the Federal government.

(4) States receiving reallotted funds shall obligate and expend these funds in accordance with § 98.60. The reallotment of funds does not extend the obligation period or the program period for expenditure of such funds.

(c)(1) Any portion of the Matching Fund granted to a State that is not obligated in the period for which the grant is made shall be redistributed. Funds, if any, will be redistributed on the request of, and only to, those other States that have met the requirements of § 98.55(c) in the period for which the grant was first made. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), the term "State" means the 50 States and the District of Columbia. Territorial and tribal grantees may not receive redistributed Matching Funds.

(2) Matching Funds allotted to a State under § 98.63(a), but not granted, shall also be redistributed in the manner described in paragraph (1) of this section.

(3) The amount of Matching Funds granted to a State that will be made available for redistribution will be based on the State's financial report to ACF for the Child Care and Development Fund (ACF-696) and is subject to the monetary limits at paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(4) A State eligible to receive redistributed Matching Funds shall also use the ACF-696 to request its share of the redistributed funds, if any.

(5) A State's share of redistributed Matching Funds is based on the same ratio as the number of children under 13 residing in the State to the number of children residing in all States eligible to receive and that request the redistributed Matching Funds.

(6) Redistributed funds are considered part of the grant for the fiscal year in which the redistribution occurs.

(d) Any portion of a Tribe's allotment of Discretionary Funds that is not required to carry out its Plan, in the period for which the allotment is made available, shall be reallotted to other tribal grantees in proportion to their original allotments. States and Territories may not receive reallotted tribal funds.

(1) Each year, the Tribe shall report to the Secretary either the dollar amount from the previous year's grant that it will be unable to obligate by the end of the obligation period or that all funds will be obligated during such time. Such report shall be postmarked by a deadline established by the Secretary.

(2) Based upon the reallotment reports submitted by Tribes, the Secretary will reallot Tribal Discretionary Funds among the other Tribes.

(i) If the total amount available for reallotment is $25,000 or more, funds will be reallotted to other tribal grantees in proportion to each Tribe's original allotment for the applicable fiscal year pursuant to § 98.62(c).

(ii) If the total amount available for reallotment is less than $25,000, the Secretary will not reallot any funds, and such funds will revert to the Federal government.

(iii) If an individual reallotment amount to an applicant Tribe is less than $500, the Secretary will not issue the award, and such funds will revert to the Federal government.

(3) If a Tribe does not submit a reallotment report by the deadline for report submittal, either:

(i) The Secretary will determine that Tribe does not have any funds available for reallotment; or

(ii) In the case of a report received after the deadline established by the Secretary, any funds reported to be available for reallotment shall revert to the Federal government.

(4) Tribes receiving reallotted funds shall obligate and expend these funds in accordance with § 98.60. The reallotment of funds does not extend the obligation period or the program period for expenditure of such funds.
