
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 98 - CHILD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT FUND
##### Subpart I - Indian Tribes
###### § 98.83 Requirements for tribal programs.
####### i.e.,

(g) Of the aggregated amount of funds expanded (Discretionary and Mandatory Funds),

(1) For Tribal Lead Agencies with large, medium and small allocations, no less than four percent in fiscal years 2017, seven percent in fiscal years 2018 and 2019, eight percent in fiscal years 2020 and 2021, and nine percent in fiscal years 2022 and each succeeding fiscal year shall be used for activities designed to improve the quality of child care services and increase parental options for, and access to high-quality child care as described at § 98.53; and

(2) For Tribal Lead Agencies with large and medium allocations no less than three percent in fiscal year 2019 and each succeeding fiscal year shall be used to carry out activities at § 98.53(a)(4) as such activities relate to the quality of care for infants and toddler.

(3) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Tribal Lead Agencies from reserving a larger percentage of funds to carry out activities described in paragraph (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(h) The base amount of any tribal grant is not subject to the administrative cost limitation at paragraph (i) of this section, the direct services requirement at § 98.50(f)(2), or the quality expenditure requirement at § 98.53(a). The base amount may be expended for any costs consistent with the purposes and requirements of the CCDF.

(i) Not more than 15 percent of the aggregate CCDF funds expended by the Tribal Lead Agency from each fiscal year's (including amounts used for construction and renovation in accordance with § 98.84, but not including the base amount provided under paragraph (h) of this section) shall be expended for administrative activities. Amounts used for construction and major renovation in accordance with § 98.84 are not considered administrative costs.

(j)(1) CCDF funds are available for costs incurred by the Tribal Lead Agency only after the funds are made available by Congress for Federal obligation unless costs are incurred for planning activities related to the submission of an initial CCDF Plan.

(2) Federal obligation of funds for planning costs, pursuant to paragraph (i)(1) of this section is subject to the actual availability of the appropriation.
