
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 98 - CHILD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT FUND
##### Subpart J - Monitoring, Non-compliance and Complaints
###### ยง 98.93 Complaints.

(a) This section applies to any complaint (other than a complaint alleging violation of the nondiscrimination provisions) that a Lead Agency has failed to use its allotment in accordance with the terms of the Act, the implementing regulations, or the Plan. The Secretary is not required to consider a complaint unless it is submitted as required by this section. Complaints with respect to discrimination should be referred to the Office of Civil Rights of the Department.

(b) Complaints with respect to the CCDF shall be submitted in writing to the Assistant Secretary for Children and Families. The complaint shall identify the provision of the Plan, the Act, or this part that was allegedly violated, specify the basis for alleging the violation(s), and include all relevant information known to the person submitting it.

(c) The Department shall promptly furnish a copy of any complaint to the affected Lead Agency. Any comments received from the Lead Agency within 60 days (or such longer period as may be agreed upon between the Lead Agency and Department) shall be considered by the Department in responding to the complaint. The Department will conduct an investigation of complaints, where appropriate.

(d) The Department will provide a written response to complaints within 180 days after receipt. If a final resolution cannot be provided at that time, the response will state the reasons why additional time is necessary.

(e) Complaints that are not satisfactorily resolved through communication with the Lead Agency will be pursued through the process described in ยง 98.90.
