
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 101 - DESCRIBING AGENCY NEEDS
##### Subpart D - Special Priorities Assistance
###### ยง 101.41 Requests for priority rating authority.
####### Rating authority in advance of a rated prime contract.

(c)(1) In certain cases and upon specific request, the Department of Health and Human Services, in order to promote the national defense, may authorize a person to place a priority rating on an order to a supplier in advance of the issuance of a rated prime contract. In these instances, the person requesting advance-rating authority must obtain sponsorship of the request from the Department of Health and Human Services or the appropriate Delegate Agency. The person shall also assume any business risk associated with the placing of rated orders in the event the rated prime contract is not issued.

(2) The person must state the following in the request:

(3) In reviewing requests for rating authority in advance of a rated prime contract, HHS will consider, among other things, the following criteria:

(i) The probability that the prime contract will be awarded;

(ii) The impact of the resulting rated orders on suppliers and on other authorized programs;

(iii) Whether the contractor is the sole source;

(iv) Whether the item being produced has a long lead time;

(v) The time period for which the rating is being requested.

(4) The HHS may require periodic reports on the use of the rating authority granted under paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) If a rated prime contract is not issued, the person shall promptly notify all suppliers who have received rated orders pursuant to the advanced rating authority that the priority rating on those orders is cancelled.
