
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 144 - REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 144.101 Basis and purpose.
####### et seq.

(a) Part 146 of this subchapter implements requirements of Title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act, 42 U.S.C. 300gg,) that apply to group health plans and group health insurance issuers.

(b) Part 147 of this subchapter implements the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that apply to both group health plans and health insurance issuers in the Group and Individual Markets.

(c) Part 148 of this subchapter implements Individual Health Insurance Market requirements of the PHS Act. Its purpose is to improve access to individual health insurance coverage for certain individuals who previously had group coverage, guarantee the renewability of all health insurance coverage in the individual market, and provide certain protections for mothers and newborns with respect to coverage for hospital stays in connection with childbirth, and to provide certain protections for patients who elect breast reconstruction in connection with a mastectomy.

(d) Part 149 of this subchapter implements the provisions of parts D and E of title XXVII of the PHS Act that apply to group health plans, health insurance issuers in the group and individual markets, health care providers and facilities, and providers of air ambulance services.

(e) Part 150 of this subchapter implements the enforcement provisions of sections 2723 and 2761 of the PHS Act with respect to the following:

(1) States that fail to substantially enforce one or more provisions of part 146 concerning group health insurance, one or more provisions of part 147 concerning group or individual health insurance, or the requirements of part 148 of this subchapter concerning individual health insurance.

(2) Insurance issuers in States described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(3) Group health plans that are non-Federal governmental plans.

(f) Sections 2791 and 2792 of the PHS Act define terms used in the regulations in this subchapter and provide the basis for issuing these regulations.
