
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 13 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT IN AGENCY PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart B - Information Required from Applicants
###### ยง 13.12 Documentation of fees and expenses.

(a) All applicants must be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses, including the cost of any study, exhibit, analysis, report, test or other similar item, for which the applicant seeks reimbursement.

(b) The documentation shall include an affidavit from each attorney, agent, or expert witness representing or appearing in behalf of the party, stating the actual time expended, the rate at which fees and other expenses were computed, a description of the specific services performed, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. Where the adversary adjudication includes covered proceedings (as described in ยง 13.3) as well as excluded proceedings, or two or more matters, each of which could have been heard separately, the fees and expenses shall be shown separately for each proceeding or matter, and the basis for allocating expenses among the proceedings or matters shall be indicated.

(1) The affidavit shall itemize in detail the services performed by the date, number of hours per date and the services performed during those hours. In order to establish the hourly rate, the affidavit shall state the hourly rate which is billed and paid by the majority of clients during the relevant time periods.

(2) If no hourly rate is paid by the majority of clients because, for instance, the attorney or agent represents most clients on a contingency basis, the attorney or agent shall provide affidavits from two attorneys or agents with similar experience, who perform similar work, stating the hourly rate which they bill and are paid by the majority of their clients during a comparable time period.

(c) If the applicant seeks reimbursement of any expenses not covered by the affidavit described in paragraph (b), the documentation must also include an affidavit describing all such expenses and stating the amounts paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided.

(d) The adjudicative officer may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any fees or expenses claimed, pursuant to ยง 13.25 of this part.
