
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 13 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT IN AGENCY PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Considering Applications
###### ยง 13.25 Further proceedings.

(a) Ordinarily, a decision on an application will be made on the basis of the hearing record and pleadings related to the application. However, at the request of either the applicant or the agency's litigating party, or on his or her own initiative, the adjudicative officer may order further proceedings, including an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions, or an evidentiary hearing. Such further proceedings shall be held only when necessary for full and fair resolution of the issues arising from the application, and shall be conducted as promptly as possible. In no such further proceeding shall evidence be introduced from outside the administrative record in order to prove that the Department's position was, or was not, substantially justified.

(b) A request that the adjudicative officer order additional written submissions or oral testimony shall identify the information sought and shall explain why the information is necessary to decide the issues.

(c) The adjudicative officer may impose sanctions on any party for failure to comply with his or her order to file pleadings, produce documents, or present witnesses for oral examination. These sanctions may include but are not limited to granting the application partly or completely, dismissing the application, and diminishing the award granted.
