
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 146 - REQUIREMENTS FOR THE GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE MARKET
##### Subpart F - Exclusion of Plans and Enforcement
###### ยง 146.180 Treatment of non-Federal governmental plans.
####### Opt-out election for self-funded non-Federal governmental plans,Requirements subject to exemption.

(a)-(1)The PHS Act requirements described in this paragraph are the following:

(i) Limitations on preexisting condition exclusion periods in accordance with section 2701 of the PHS Act as codified before enactment of the Affordable Care Act.

(ii) Special enrollment periods for individuals and dependents described under section 2704(f) of the PHS Act.

(iii) Prohibitions against discriminating against individual participants and beneficiaries based on health status under section 2705 of the PHS Act, except that the sponsor of a self-funded non-Federal governmental plan cannot elect to exempt its plan from requirements under section 2705(a)(6) and 2705(c) through (f) that prohibit discrimination with respect to genetic information.

(iv) Standards relating to benefits for mothers and newborns under section 2725 of the PHS Act.

(v) Parity in mental health and substance use disorder benefits under section 2726 of the PHS Act.

(vi) Required coverage for reconstructive surgery following mastectomies under section 2727 of the PHS Act.

(vii) Coverage of dependent students on a medically necessary leave of absence under section 2728 of the PHS Act.
