
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 18 - OFFICIAL SYMBOL, LOGO, AND SEAL
##### ยง 18.1 Description of the Symbol, Logo, and Seal.

(a) The Departmental Symbol (Symbol) of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is the key element in Department identification. It represents the American People sheltered in the wing of the American Eagle, suggesting the Department's concern and responsibility for the welfare of the people. This Symbol is the visual link which connects the graphic communications of all components and programs of the Department. It is the major design component for the Department Identifiers - the Department Logo, Seal, and Signatures.

(b) The Symbol is described as follows: The outline of an American Eagle, facing left, with one of its wings stretched upward and the other wing pointed downward, is flanked on its right side by two outlines of the profile of a human head, both of which are located in between the eagle's wings. One of the profile outlines is smaller than the other and is nestled in the larger outline.

(c) The HHS Departmental Logo (Logo) incorporates the Symbol and is described as follows: From the tip of the outstretched wing of the American Eagle in symbol to the tip of the other, downward-facing wing, the words, "DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES - USA" form a circular arc. The official colors of the Logo are either Black or Reflex Blue. Reflex Blue RGB Numbers: 0/0/153 (R0, G0, B153)

(d) The HHS Departmental Seal (Seal) incorporates the Symbol and is described as follows: Starting from the tip of the downward-facing wing of the American Eagle in the HHS symbol and forming a complete circle clockwise around the HHS symbol, the words, "DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES - USA -" are printed, surrounded by a border composed of a solid inner ring at the base of the text and a triangular, scalloped edge at the top of the text. The official colors of the Seal are Reflex Blue and Gold [Reflex Blue RGB Numbers: 0/0/153 (R0, G0, B153); Reflex Gold RGB Numbers: 254/252/1 (R254, G252, B1)]. The Seal may also appear in Reflex Blue or Black.

(e) The HHS Departmental symbol, logo, and seal shall each be referred to as an HHS emblem and shall collectively be referred to as HHS emblems.
