
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 148 - REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INDIVIDUAL HEALTH INSURANCE MARKET
##### Subpart E - Grants to States for Operation of Qualified High Risk Pools
###### ยง 148.312 Amount of grant payment.

(a) An eligible State may receive a grant to fund up to 100 percent of the losses incurred in the operation of its qualified high risk pool during the period for which it is applying or a lesser amount based on the limits of the allotment under the formula.

(b) Funds will be allocated in accordance with this paragraph to each State that meets the eligibility requirements of ยง 148.310 and files an application in accordance with ยง 148.316. The amount will be divided among the States that apply and are awarded grants according to the allotment rules that generally provide that: 40 percent will be equally divided among those States; 30 percent will be divided among States and territories based on their number of uninsured residents in the State during the specified year as compared to all States that apply; and 30 percent will be divided among States and territories based on the number of people in State high risk pools during the specified year as compared to all States that apply.

For purposes of this paragraph:

(1) The number of uninsured individuals is calculated for each eligible State by taking a 3-year average of the number of uninsured individuals in that State in the Current Population Survey (CPS) of the Census Bureau during the period for which it is applying. The 3-year average will be calculated using numbers available as of March 1 of each year.

(2) The number of individuals enrolled in health care coverage through the qualified high risk pool of the State will be determined by attestation by the State in its grant application and verified for reasonability by the Secretary through acceptable industry data sources.

(c) The amount awarded to each eligible State will be the lesser of the 50 percent of losses incurred by its qualified risk pool for the fiscal year in question or its allotment under the formula.

(d) One-third of the total appropriation will be available for the bonus grants. In no case will a State for a fiscal year receive bonus grants that exceed 10 percent of the total allotted funds for bonus grants.
