
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 148 - REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INDIVIDUAL HEALTH INSURANCE MARKET
##### Subpart E - Grants to States for Operation of Qualified High Risk Pools
###### ยง 148.316 Grant application instructions.
####### History and description of the qualified high risk pool.

(1)Provide a detailed description of the qualified high risk pool that includes the following:

(i) Brief history, including date of inception.

(ii) Enrollment criteria (including provisions for the admission of eligible individuals as defined in ยง 148.103) and number of enrollees.

(iii) Description of how coverage is provided administratively in the qualified high risk pool (that is, self-insured, through a private carrier, etc.).

(iv) Benefits options and packages offered in the qualified high risk pool to both eligible individual (as defined in ยง 148.103) and other applicants.

(v) Outline of plan benefits and coverage offered in the pool. Provide evidence that the level of plan benefits is consistent with either Alternative One or Alternative Two in Section 8 of the NAIC Model Health Plan for Uninsurable Individuals Act. See appendix for the text of Section 8 of the NAIC Model.

(vi) Premiums charged (in terms of dollars and in percentage of standard risk rate) and other cost-sharing mechanisms, such as co-pays and deductibles, imposed on enrollees (both eligible individuals (as defined in ยง 148.103) and non-eligible individuals if a distinction is made).

(vii) How the standard risk rate for the State is calculated and when it was last calculated.

(viii) Revenue sources for the qualified high risk pool, including current funding mechanisms and, if different, future funding mechanisms. Provide current projections of future income.

(ix) Copies of all governing authorities of the pool, including statutes, regulations and plan of operation.
