
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
##### Subpart B - Standards for the Administrative Collection of Debts
###### ยง 30.12 Administrative offset.
####### Non-centralized administrative offset.

(c)(1) Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset under paragraph (b) of this section is not available or appropriate, the Secretary may collect a delinquent debt by conducting non-centralized administrative offset internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, administrative offset may be initiated only after:

(i) The debtor has been sent written notice of the type and amount of the debt, the intention of the Department to initiate administrative offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716; and

(ii) The debtor has been given:

(A) The opportunity to inspect and copy Department records related to the debt;

(B) The opportunity for a review within the Department of the determination of indebtedness; and

(C) The opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the debt.

(3) The due process requirements under paragraph (c)(2) of this section may be omitted when:

(i) Offset is in the nature of a recoupment, i.e., the debt and the payment to be offset arise out of the same transaction or occurrence;

(ii) The debt arises under a contract as set forth in Cecile Industries, Inc. v. Cheney, 995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets covered by the Contracts Disputes Act); or

(iii) In the case of non-centralized administrative offset conducted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Department first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, the Secretary shall give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practical and shall promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.

(4) When the debtor previously has been given any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt, such as under ยง 30.11 of this part, the Department need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before administrative offset may be initiated.

(5) Before requesting that a payment authorizing agency to conduct non-centralized administrative offset, the Department shall:

(i) Provide the debtor with due process as set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and

(ii) Provide the payment authorizing agency written certification that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that the Department has fully complied with this section.

(6) When a creditor agency requests that the Department, as the payment authorizing agency, conduct non-centralized administrative offset, the Secretary shall comply with the request, unless the offset would not be in the best interest of the United States with respect to the program of the Department, or would otherwise be contrary to law. Appropriate use should be made of the cooperative efforts of other agencies in effecting collection by administrative offset, including salary offset.

(7) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, the Department will apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
