
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 149 - SURPRISE BILLING AND TRANSPARENCY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart E - Health Care Provider, Health Care Facility, and Air Ambulance Service Provider Requirements
###### ยง 149.430 Provider and facility disclosure requirements regarding patient protections against balance billing.
####### Required methods for disclosing information.

(c)Health care providers and health care facilities must provide the disclosure required under this section as follows:

(1) With respect to the required disclosure to be posted on a public website, the information described in paragraph (b) of this section, or a link to such information, must appear on a searchable homepage of the provider's or facility's website. A provider or facility that does not have its own website is not required to make a disclosure under this paragraph (c)(1).

(2) With respect to the required disclosure to the public, a provider or facility must make public the information described in paragraph (b) of this section on a sign posted prominently at the location of the provider or facility. A provider that does not have a publicly accessible location is not required to make a disclosure under this paragraph (c)(2).

(3) With respect to the required disclosure to individuals who are participants, beneficiaries, or enrollees of a group health plan or group or individual health insurance coverage offered by a health insurance issuer, a provider or facility must provide the information described in paragraph (b) of this section in a one-page (double-sided) notice, using print no smaller than 12-point font. The notice must be provided in-person or through mail or email, as selected by the participant, beneficiary, or enrollee.
