
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 30 - CLAIMS COLLECTION
##### Subpart B - Standards for the Administrative Collection of Debts
###### ยง 30.13 Debt reporting and use of credit reporting agencies.
####### Reporting delinquent debts.

(a)(1) The Secretary will report delinquent debts over $100 to credit bureaus or other automated databases. Debts arising under the Social Security Act are excluded from paragraph (a).

(2) Debts owed by individuals will be reported to consumer reporting agencies pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12).

(3) Once a debt has been referred to Treasury for collection, any subsequent reporting to or updating of a credit bureau or other automated database may be handled by the Treasury.

(4) Where there is reason to believe that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, the Office of the General Counsel should be contacted for legal advice concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly with respect to the applicability of the automatic stay, 11 U.S.C. 362, and the procedures for obtaining relief from such stay prior to proceeding under paragraph (a) of this section.

(5) If the debtor has not received prior written notice under ยง 30.11(b), before reporting a delinquent debt under this section, the Secretary shall provide the debtor at least 60 days written notice of the amount and nature of the debt; that the debt is delinquent and the Department intends to report the debt to a credit bureau (including the specific information that will be disclosed); that the debtor has the right to dispute the accuracy and validity of the information being disclosed; and, if a previous opportunity was not provided, that the debtor may request review within the Department of the debt or rescheduling of payment. The Secretary may disclose only the individual's name, address, and social security number and the nature, amount, status and history of the debt.
