
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 149 - SURPRISE BILLING AND TRANSPARENCY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Protection of Uninsured or Self-Pay Individuals
###### ยง 149.610 Requirements for provision of good faith estimates of expected charges for uninsured (or self-pay) individuals.
####### Additional compliance provisions.

(f)(1) A good faith estimate issued to uninsured (or self-pay) individual under this section is considered part of the patient's medical record and must be maintained in the same manner as a patient's medical record. Convening providers and convening facilities must provide a copy of any previously issued good faith estimate furnished within the last 6 years to an uninsured (or self-pay) individual upon the request of the uninsured (or self-pay) individual.

(2) Providers or facilities that issue good faith estimates issued under State processes that do not meet the requirements set forth in this section fail to comply with the requirements of this section.

(3) A provider or facility will not fail to comply with this section solely because, despite acting in good faith and with reasonable due diligence, the provider or facility makes an error or omission in a good faith estimate required under this section, provided that the provider or facility corrects the information as soon as practicable. If items or services are furnished before an error in a good faith estimate is addressed, the provider or facility may be subject to patient-provider dispute resolution if the actual billed charges are substantially in excess of the good faith estimate (as described in ยง 149.620).

(4) To the extent compliance with this section requires a provider or facility to obtain information from any other entity or individual, the provider or facility will not fail to comply with this section if it relied in good faith on the information from the other entity, unless the provider or facility knows, or reasonably should have known, that the information is incomplete or inaccurate. If the provider or facility learns that the information is incomplete or inaccurate, the provider or facility must provide corrected information to the uninsured (or self-pay) individual as soon as practicable. If items or services are furnished before an error in a good faith estimate is addressed, the provider or facility may be subject to patient-provider dispute resolution if the actual billed charges are substantially in excess of the good faith estimate (as described in ยง 149.620).
