
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 149 - SURPRISE BILLING AND TRANSPARENCY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Protection of Uninsured or Self-Pay Individuals
###### ยง 149.620 Requirements for the patient-provider dispute resolution process.
####### Validation of initiation notice.

(4)After the selection of the SDR entity, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the SDR entity shall review the initiation notice to ensure the items or services in dispute meet the eligibility criteria described in paragraph (b) of this section and the initiation notice contains the required information described in paragraph (c)(2). The SDR entity will notify the uninsured (or self-pay) individual of the outcome of the review, including, if applicable, providing the individual with 21 calendar days to submit supplemental information when the initiation notice is determined to be incomplete or the items or services are determined ineligible for dispute resolution.

(i) If the SDR entity determines that the item or service meets the eligibility criteria, and the initiation notice contains the required information, the SDR entity will notify the uninsured (or self-pay) individual and the provider or facility that the that the item or service has been determined eligible for dispute resolution. The SDR entity shall request the provider or facility provide the information described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section within 10 business days.

(ii) If the SDR entity determines that the item or service does not meet the eligibility criteria or that the initiation notice does not contain the required information, the SDR entity will provide an insufficiency notice to the uninsured (or self-pay) individual of the determination and the reasons for the determination and will notify the uninsured (or self-pay) individual that the individual may submit supplemental information, postmarked within 21 calendar days, to resolve any deficiencies identified. If the insufficiency notice is not made available to an individual in a format that is accessible to individuals with disabilities or with low-English proficiency within 14 calendar days of such a request from the individual, a 14-calendar-day extension will be granted so that the individual will have a total of 35 calendar days to submit supplemental information.
