
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 149 - SURPRISE BILLING AND TRANSPARENCY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Protection of Uninsured or Self-Pay Individuals
###### ยง 149.620 Requirements for the patient-provider dispute resolution process.
####### Selection of an SDR entity.

(e)(1) After the Secretary has received the initiation notice as described in paragraph (c) of this section, the Secretary will assign an SDR entity that is certified and contracted under paragraph (d) of this section to conduct the dispute resolution process for the item or service. Upon receiving an assignment from the Secretary to make a determination for an item or service as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the SDR entity shall ensure that no conflict of interest exists, and in such case, shall notify the uninsured (or self-pay) individual and the provider or facility of the selection of the SDR entity.

(2) Should a conflict of interest exist, the SDR entity must submit notice to the Secretary of such conflict no later than 3 business days following selection by the Secretary. The Secretary will then automatically select a new SDR entity to conduct the patient-provider dispute resolution process for the item or service. In the event that no SDR entities are available to resolve the dispute, the initially-selected SDR entity will be required to initiate their entity-level conflict of interest mitigation plan as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. If no other contracted SDR entity, and no subcontracted entity, is able to provide the patient-provider dispute resolution services due to conflicts of interest that cannot be sufficiently mitigated or any other reason, HHS may seek to contract with an additional SDR entity as needed. In the event that HHS needs to contract with an additional SDR entity, the time periods specified in this section may be extended at HHS' discretion to allow for HHS to contract with that SDR entity.

(3) Conflict of interest means, with respect to a party to a payment determination, or SDR entity, a material relationship, status, or condition of the party, or SDR entity that impacts the ability of the SDR entity to make an unbiased and impartial payment determination. For purposes of this section, a conflict of interest exists when an SDR entity is:

(i) A provider or a facility;

(ii) An affiliate or a subsidiary of a provider or facility;

(iii) An affiliate or subsidiary of a professional or trade association representing a provider or facility; or

(iv) An SDR entity, or any personnel assigned to a determination has a material familial, financial, or professional relationship with a party to the payment determination being disputed, or with any officer, director, or management employee of the provider, the provider's group or practice association, or the facility that is a party to the dispute.

(4) Either party to the dispute resolution process (the uninsured (or self-pay) individual, or the provider or facility) may attest that a conflict of interest exists in relation to the SDR entity assigned to a payment dispute, in which case the SDR entity must notify the Secretary of HHS no later than 3 business days receiving the attestation.
