
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 149 - SURPRISE BILLING AND TRANSPARENCY REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart G - Protection of Uninsured or Self-Pay Individuals
###### ยง 149.620 Requirements for the patient-provider dispute resolution process.
####### Costs of patient-provider dispute resolution process,Administrative fee to participate in the patient-provider dispute resolution process.

(g)-(1)(i) The uninsured (or self-pay) individual shall pay to the SDR entity the administrative fee amount described in section (g)(2) of this section at the initiation of the patient-provider dispute resolution process described in paragraph (c) of this section. The SDR entity shall remit all administrative fees collected to the Secretary upon receiving an invoice from HHS.

(ii) In cases where the SDR entity issues a determination and the provider or facility is the non-prevailing party as described in section (g)(1)(iv) of this section, the provider or facility must pay an amount equal to the administrative fee to the uninsured (or self-pay) individual in the form of a reduction in the payment amount that is applied by the SDR entity to the final payment determination amount as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.

(iii) If the SDR entity issues a determination and the provider or facility is the prevailing party as described in paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section, the provider or facility is not required to pay an amount equal to the administrative fee to the uninsured (or self-pay) individual in the form of a reduction in the payment amount that is applied by the SDR entity to the final payment determination amount as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.

(iv) For purposes of paragraphs (g)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the prevailing party is the provider or facility in cases where the SDR entity determines the amount to be paid as equal to the billed charges; and the prevailing party is the uninsured (or self-pay) individual in cases where the SDR entity determines the-amount to be paid as less than the billed charges.

(v) Allocation of administrative fee in the case of settlement. In case of a settlement described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the provider or facility must pay an amount equal to half of the administrative fee to the uninsured (or self-pay) individual in the form of a reduction in the payment amount that is applied to the final settlement amount. The provider or facility will document in the settlement notice described in paragraph (f)(1) that it has applied a payment reduction of at least half of the administrative fee amount to the uninsured (or self-pay) individual's settlement amount.

(2) Establishment of the administrative fee. The amount of the administrative fee described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section will be specified by the Secretary through guidance.
