
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 154 - HEALTH INSURANCE ISSUER RATE INCREASES: DISCLOSURE AND REVIEW REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Disclosure and Review Provisions
###### § 154.230 Submission and posting of Final Justifications for unreasonable rate increases.

(a) If a health insurance issuer receives from CMS a final determination by CMS or a State that a rate increase is an unreasonable rate increase, and the health insurance issuer declines to implement the rate increase or chooses to implement a lower increase, the health insurance issuer must submit to CMS timely notice that it will not implement the rate increase or that it will implement a lower increase on a form and in the manner prescribed by the Secretary.

(b) If a health insurance issuer implements a lower increase as described in paragraph (a) of this section and the lower increase does not meet or exceed the applicable threshold under § 154.200, such lower increase is not subject to this part. If the lower increase meets or exceeds the applicable threshold, the health insurance issuer must submit a new Rate Filing Justification under this part.

(c) If a health insurance issuer implements a rate increase determined by CMS or a State to be unreasonable, within the later of 10 business days after the implementation of such increase or the health insurance issuer's receipt of CMS's final determination that a rate increase is an unreasonable rate increase, the health insurance issuer must:

(1) Submit to CMS a Final Justification in response to CMS's or the State's final determination, as applicable. The information in the Final Justification must be consistent with the information submitted in the Rate Filing Justification supporting the rate increase; and

(2) Prominently post on its Web site the following information on a form and in the manner prescribed by the Secretary:

(i) The information made available to the public by CMS and described in § 154.215(h).

(ii) CMS's or the State's final determination and brief explanation described in §§ 154.225(a) and 154.210(b)(2), as applicable; and

(iii) The health insurance issuer's Final Justification for implementing an increase that has been determined to be unreasonable by CMS or the State, as applicable.

(3) The health insurance issuer must continue to make this information available to the public on its Web site for at least three years.

(d) CMS will post all Final Justifications on the CMS Web site. This information will remain available to the public on the CMS Web site for three years.
