
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 154 - HEALTH INSURANCE ISSUER RATE INCREASES: DISCLOSURE AND REVIEW REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart C - Effective Rate Review Programs
###### ยง 154.301 CMS's determinations of Effective Rate Review Programs.
####### Effective Rate Review Program.

(a)In evaluating whether a State has an Effective Rate Review Program, CMS will apply the following criteria for the review of rates for the small group market and the individual market, and also, as applicable depending on State law, the review of rates for different types of products within those markets:

(1) The State receives from issuers data and documentation in connection with rate increases that are sufficient to conduct the examination described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(2) The State conducts an effective and timely review of the data and documentation submitted by a health insurance issuer in support of a proposed rate increase.

(3) The State's rate review process includes an examination of:

(i) The reasonableness of the assumptions used by the health insurance issuer to develop the proposed rate increase and the validity of the historical data underlying the assumptions.

(ii) The health insurance issuer's data related to past projections and actual experience.

(iii) The reasonableness of assumptions used by the health insurance issuer to estimate the rate impact of the reinsurance and risk adjustment programs under sections 1341 and 1343 of the Affordable Care Act.

(iv) The health insurance issuer's data related to implementation and ongoing utilization of a market-wide single risk pool, essential health benefits, actuarial values and other market reform rules as required by the Affordable Care Act.

(4) The examination must take into consideration the following factors to the extent applicable to the filing under review:

(i) The impact of medical trend changes by major service categories.

(ii) The impact of utilization changes by major service categories.

(iii) The impact of cost-sharing changes by major service categories, including actuarial values.

(iv) The impact of benefit changes, including essential health benefits and non-essential health benefits.

(v) The impact of changes in enrollee risk profile and pricing, including rating limitations for age and tobacco use under section 2701 of the Public Health Service Act.

(vi) The impact of any overestimate or underestimate of medical trend for prior year periods related to the rate increase.

(vii) The impact of changes in reserve needs;

(viii) The impact of changes in administrative costs related to programs that improve health care quality;

(ix) The impact of changes in other administrative costs;

(x) The impact of changes in applicable taxes, licensing or regulatory fees.

(xi) Medical loss ratio.

(xii) The health insurance issuer's capital and surplus.

(xiii) The impacts of geographic factors and variations.

(xiv) The impact of changes within a single risk pool to all products or plans within the risk pool.

(xv) The impact of reinsurance and risk adjustment payments and charges under sections 1341 and 1343 of the Affordable Care Act.

(5) The State's determination of whether a rate increase is unreasonable is made under a standard that is set forth in State statute or regulation.
