
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart C - General Functions of an Exchange
###### ยง 155.205 Consumer assistance tools and programs of an Exchange.
####### Internet Web site.

(b)The Exchange must maintain an up-to-date Internet Web site that meets the requirements outlined in paragraph (c) of this section and:

(1) Provides standardized comparative information on each available QHP, which may include differential display of standardized options on consumer-facing plan comparison and shopping tools, and at a minimum includes:

(i) Premium and cost-sharing information;

(ii) The summary of benefits and coverage established under section 2715 of the PHS Act;

(iii) Identification of whether the QHP is a bronze, silver, gold, or platinum level plan as defined by section 1302(d) of the Affordable Care Act, or a catastrophic plan as defined by section 1302(e) of the Affordable Care Act;

(iv) The results of the enrollee satisfaction survey, as described in section 1311(c)(4) of the Affordable Care Act;

(v) Quality ratings assigned in accordance with section 1311(c)(3) of the Affordable Care Act;

(vi) Medical loss ratio information as reported to HHS in accordance with 45 CFR part 158;

(vii) Transparency of coverage measures reported to the Exchange during certification in accordance with ยง 155.1040; and

(viii) The provider directory made available to the Exchange in accordance with ยง 156.230.

(2) Publishes the following financial information:

(i) The average costs of licensing required by the Exchange;

(ii) Any regulatory fees required by the Exchange;

(iii) Any payments required by the Exchange in addition to fees under paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section;

(iv) Administrative costs of such Exchange; and

(v) Monies lost to waste, fraud, and abuse.

(3) Provides applicants with information about Navigators as described in ยง 155.210 and other consumer assistance services, including the toll-free telephone number of the Exchange call center required in paragraph (a) of this section.

(4) Allows for an eligibility determination to be made in accordance with subpart D of this part.

(5) Allows a qualified individual to select a QHP in accordance with subpart E of this part.

(6) Makes available by electronic means a calculator to facilitate the comparison of available QHPs after the application of any advance payments of the premium tax credit and any cost-sharing reductions.

(7) A State-based Exchange on the Federal platform must at a minimum maintain an informational Internet Web site that includes the capability to direct consumers to Federal platform services to apply for, and enroll in, Exchange coverage.
