
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart C - General Functions of an Exchange
###### ยง 155.205 Consumer assistance tools and programs of an Exchange.
####### Accessibility.

(c)Information must be provided to applicants and enrollees in plain language and in a manner that is accessible and timely to-

(1) Individuals living with disabilities including accessible Web sites and the provision of auxiliary aids and services at no cost to the individual in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act.

(2) Individuals who are limited English proficient through the provision of language services at no cost to the individual, including

(i) For all entities subject to this standard, oral interpretation.

(A) For Exchanges and QHP issuers, this standard also includes telephonic interpreter services in at least 150 languages.

(B) For a web-broker, beginning November 1, 2015, or when such entity has been registered with the Exchange for at least 1 year, whichever is later, this standard also includes telephonic interpreter services in at least 150 languages.

(ii) Written translations; and

(iii) For all entities subject to this standard, taglines in non-English languages indicating the availability of language services.

(A) For Exchanges and QHP issuers, this standard also includes taglines on Web site content and any document that is critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP for qualified individuals, applicants, qualified employers, qualified employees, or enrollees. A document is deemed to be critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP if it is required to be provided by law or regulation to a qualified individual, applicant, qualified employer, qualified employee, or enrollee. Such taglines must indicate the availability of language services in at least the top 15 languages spoken by the limited English proficient population of the relevant State or States, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary. If an Exchange is operated by an entity that operates multiple Exchanges, or if an Exchange relies on an entity to conduct its eligibility or enrollment functions and that entity conducts such functions for multiple Exchanges, the Exchange may aggregate the limited English proficient populations across all the States served by the entity that operates the Exchange or conducts its eligibility or enrollment functions to determine the top 15 languages required for taglines. A QHP issuer may aggregate the limited English proficient populations across all States served by the health insurance issuers within the issuer's controlled group (defined for purposes of this section as a group of two or more persons that is treated as a single employer under sections 52(a), 52(b), 414(m), or 414(o) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended), whether or not those health insurance issuers offer plans through the Exchange in each of those States, to determine the top 15 languages required for taglines. Exchanges and QHP issuers may satisfy tagline requirements with respect to Web site content if they post a Web link prominently on their home page that directs individuals to the full text of the taglines indicating how individuals may obtain language assistance services, and if they also include taglines on any critical stand-alone document linked to or embedded in the Web site. Exchanges, and QHP issuers that are also subject to ยง 92.8 of this subtitle, will be deemed in compliance with paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section if they are in compliance with ยง 92.8 of this subtitle.

(B) For a web-broker, beginning when such entity has been registered with the Exchange for at least 1 year, this standard also includes taglines on website content and any document that is critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP for qualified individuals, applicants, qualified employers, qualified employees, or enrollees. Website content or documents are deemed to be critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP if they are required to be provided by law or regulation to a qualified individual, applicant, qualified employer, qualified employee, or enrollee. Such taglines must indicate the availability of language services in at least the top 15 languages spoken by the limited English proficient population of the relevant State or States, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary. A web-broker that is licensed in and serving multiple States may aggregate the limited English populations in the States it serves to determine the top 15 languages required for taglines. A web-broker may satisfy tagline requirements with respect to website content if it posts a Web link prominently on its home page that directs individuals to the full text of the taglines indicating how individuals may obtain language assistance services, and if it also includes taglines on any critical stand-alone document linked to or embedded in the website.

(iv) For Exchanges, QHP issuers, and web-brokers, website translations.

(A) For an Exchange, beginning no later than the first day of the individual market open enrollment period for the 2017 benefit year, content that is intended for qualified individuals, applicants, qualified employers, qualified employees, or enrollees on a Web site that is maintained by the Exchange must be translated into any non-English language that is spoken by a limited English proficient population that reaches 10 percent or more of the population of the relevant State, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary.

(B) For a QHP issuer, beginning no later than the first day of the individual market open enrollment period for the 2017 benefit year, if the content of a Web site maintained by the QHP issuer is critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP, within the meaning of ยง 156.250 of this subchapter, it must be translated into any non-English language that is spoken by a limited English proficient population that reaches 10 percent or more of the population of the relevant State, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary.

(C) For a web-broker, beginning on the first day of the individual market open enrollment period for the 2017 benefit year, or when such entity has been registered with the Exchange for at least 1 year, whichever is later, content that is intended for qualified individuals, applicants, qualified employers, qualified employees, or enrollees on a website that is maintained by the web-broker must be translated into any non-English language that is spoken by a limited English proficient population that comprises 10 percent or more of the population of the relevant State, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary.

(3) Inform individuals of the availability of the services described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section and how to access such services.
