
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 32 - ADMINISTRATIVE WAGE GARNISHMENT
##### ยง 32.1 Purpose and scope.
###### Scope.

(c)(1) This part applies to all Departmental Operating Divisions and Regional Offices that administer a program that gives rise to a delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States and to all officers or employees of the Department authorized to collect such debt.

(2) This part shall apply notwithstanding any provision of State law.

(3) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise of a debt or the suspension or termination of collection action in accordance with part 30 of this title, or other applicable law or regulation.

(4) The receipt of payments pursuant to this part does not preclude the Department from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of Federal payments to satisfy delinquent non-tax debt owed to the United States. The Department may pursue such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with administrative wage garnishment.

(5) This part does not apply to the collection of delinquent non-tax debts owed to the United States from the wages of Federal employees from their Federal employment. Federal pay is subject to the Federal salary offset procedures set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and other applicable laws.

(6) Nothing in this part requires the Department to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
