
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart C - General Functions of an Exchange
###### ยง 155.210 Navigator program standards.
####### Entities and individuals eligible to be a Navigator.

(c)(1) To receive a Navigator grant, an entity or individual must-

(i) Be capable of carrying out at least those duties described in paragraph (e) of this section;

(ii) Demonstrate to the Exchange that the entity has existing relationships, or could readily establish relationships, with employers and employees, consumers (including uninsured and underinsured consumers), or self-employed individuals likely to be eligible for enrollment in a QHP;

(iii) Meet any licensing, certification or other standards prescribed by the State or Exchange, if applicable, so long as such standards do not prevent the application of the provisions of title I of the Affordable Care Act. Standards that would prevent the application of the provisions of title I of the Affordable Care Act include but are not limited to the following:

(A) Except as otherwise provided under ยง 155.705(d), requirements that Navigators refer consumers to other entities not required to provide fair, accurate, and impartial information.

(B) Except as otherwise provided under ยง 155.705(d), requirements that would prevent Navigators from providing services to all persons to whom they are required to provide assistance.

(C) Requirements that would prevent Navigators from providing advice regarding substantive benefits or comparative benefits of different health plans.

(D) Requiring that a Navigator hold an agent or broker license or imposing any requirement that, in effect, would require all Navigators in the Exchange to be licensed agents or brokers.

(E) Imposing standards that would, as applied or as implemented in a State, prevent the application of Federal requirements applicable to Navigator entities or individuals or applicable to the Exchange's implementation of the Navigator program.

(iv) Not have a conflict of interest during the term as Navigator; and,

(v) Comply with the privacy and security standards adopted by the Exchange as required in accordance with ยง 155.260.

(2) The Exchange must include an entity from at least one of the following categories for receipt of a Navigator grant:

(i) Community and consumer-focused nonprofit groups;

(ii) Trade, industry, and professional associations;

(iii) Commercial fishing industry organizations, ranching and farming organizations;

(iv) Chambers of commerce;

(v) Unions;

(vi) Resource partners of the Small Business Administration;

(vii) Licensed agents and brokers; and

(viii) Other public or private entities or individuals that meet the requirements of this section. Other entities may include but are not limited to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, urban Indian organizations, and State or local human service agencies.
