
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart C - General Functions of an Exchange
###### § 155.220 Ability of States to permit agents and brokers and web-brokers to assist qualified individuals, qualified employers, or qualified employees enrolling in QHPs.
####### 2

() The email address may not have domains that belong to the agent, broker, or web-broker or their business or agency.

(B) Entering only a telephone number on an application for Exchange coverage or an application for advance payments of the premium tax credit and cost-sharing reductions for QHPs that belongs to the consumer or their authorized representative designated in compliance with § 155.227. Telephone numbers may not be the personal number or business number of the agent, broker, or web-broker assisting the consumer, or their business or agency, unless the telephone number is actually that of the consumer or their authorized representative.

(C) Entering only a mailing address on an application for Exchange coverage or an application for advance payments of the premium tax credit and cost-sharing reductions for QHPs that belongs to, or is primarily accessible by, the consumer or their authorized representative designated in compliance with § 155.227, is not for the exclusive or convenient use of the agent, broker, or web-broker, and is an actual residence or a secure location where the consumer or their authorized representative may receive correspondence, such as a P.O. Box or homeless shelter. Mailing addresses may not be that of the agent, broker, or web-broker assisting the consumer, or their business or agency, unless the address is the actual residence of the consumer or their authorized representative.

(D) When submitting household income projections used by the Exchange to determine a tax filer's eligibility for advance payments of the premium tax credit in accordance with § 155.305(f) or cost-sharing reductions in accordance with § 155.305(g), entering only a consumer's household income projection that the consumer or the consumer's authorized representative designated in compliance with § 155.227 has knowingly authorized and confirmed as accurate. Household income projections must be calculated and attested to by the consumer. The agent, broker, or web-broker assisting the consumer may answer questions posed by the consumer related to household income projection, such as helping the consumer determine what qualifies as income.

(iii) Obtain the consent of the individual, employer, or employee prior to assisting with or facilitating enrollment through a Federally-facilitated Exchange, or assisting the individual in applying for advance payments of the premium tax credit and cost-sharing reductions for QHPs;

(iv) Protect consumer personally identifiable information according to § 155.260(b)(3) and the agreement described in § 155.260(b)(2);

(v) Comply with all applicable Federal and State laws and regulations.

(vi) Not engage in scripting and other automation of interactions with CMS Systems or the Direct Enrollment Pathways, unless approved in advance in writing by CMS.
