
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart C - General Functions of an Exchange
###### ยง 155.222 Standards for HHS-approved vendors of Federally-facilitated Exchange training for agents and brokers.
####### Standards.

(b)To be approved by HHS and maintain its status as an approved vendor for plan year 2016 and future plan years, a vendor must meet each of the following standards:

(1) Submit a complete and accurate application by the deadline established by HHS, which includes demonstration of prior experience with successfully conducting online training, as well as providing technical support to a large customer base.

(2) Adhere to HHS specifications for content, format, and delivery of training, which includes offering continuing education units (CEUs) for at least five States in which a Federally-facilitated Exchange or State-Based Exchange using a Federal platform is operating.

(3) Collect, store, and share with HHS training completion data from agent and broker users of the vendor's training in a manner, format, and frequency specified by HHS, and protect all data from agent and broker users of the vendor's training in accordance with applicable privacy and security requirements.

(4) Execute an agreement with HHS, in a form and manner to be determined by HHS, which requires the vendor to comply with applicable HHS guidelines for implementing the training and interfacing with HHS data systems, and the use of all data collected.

(5) Permit any individual who holds a valid State license or equivalent State authority to sell health insurance products to access the vendor's training.

(6) Provide technical support to agent and broker users of the vendor's training as specified by HHS.
