
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart C - General Functions of an Exchange
###### ยง 155.227 Authorized representatives.
####### General rule.

(a)(1) The Exchange must permit an applicant or enrollee in the individual or small group market, subject to applicable privacy and security requirements, to designate an individual person or organization to act on his or her behalf in applying for an eligibility determination or redetermination, under subpart D, G, or H of this part, and in carrying out other ongoing communications with the Exchange.

(2) Designation of an authorized representative must be in a written document signed by the applicant or enrollee, or through another legally binding format subject to applicable authentication and data security standards. If submitted, legal documentation of authority to act on behalf of an applicant or enrollee under State law, such as a court order establishing legal guardianship or a power of attorney, shall serve in the place of the applicant's or enrollee's signature.

(3) The Exchange must ensure that the authorized representative agrees to maintain, or be legally bound to maintain, the confidentiality of any information regarding the applicant or enrollee provided by the Exchange.

(4) The Exchange must ensure that the authorized representative is responsible for fulfilling all responsibilities encompassed within the scope of the authorized representation, as described in this section, to the same extent as the applicant or enrollee he or she represents.

(5) The Exchange must provide information both to the applicant or enrollee, and to the authorized representative, regarding the powers and duties of authorized representatives.
