
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart C - General Functions of an Exchange
###### ยง 155.285 Bases and process for imposing civil penalties for provision of false or fraudulent information to an Exchange or improper use or disclosure of information.
####### Maximum penalty.

(c)The amount of a civil money penalty will be determined by HHS in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) The following provisions provide maximum penalties for a single "plan year," where "plan year" has the same meaning as at ยง 155.20:

(i) Any person who fails to provide correct information as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section may be subject to a maximum civil money penalty of $25,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each application, as defined at paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, pursuant to which a person fails to provide correct information.

(ii) Any person who knowingly and willfully provides false information as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may be subject to a maximum civil money penalty of $250,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each application, as defined at paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, on which a person knowingly and willfully provides false information.

(iii) For the purposes of this subsection, "application" is defined as a submission of information, whether through an online portal, over the telephone through a call center, or through a paper submission process, in which the information is provided in relation to an eligibility determination; an eligibility redetermination based on a change in an individual's circumstances; or an annual eligibility redetermination for any of the following:

(A) Enrollment in a qualified health plan;

(B) Premium tax credits or cost sharing reductions; or

(C) An exemption from the individual shared responsibility payment.

(2) Any person who knowingly or willfully uses or discloses information as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section may be subject to the following civil money penalty:

(i) A civil money penalty for each use or disclosure described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section of not more than $25,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 per use or disclosure.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, a use or disclosure includes one separate use or disclosure of a single individual's personally identifiable information where the person against whom a civil money penalty may be imposed has made the use or disclosure.

(3) These penalties may be imposed in addition to any other penalties that may be prescribed by law.
