
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 32 - ADMINISTRATIVE WAGE GARNISHMENT
##### ยง 32.5 Hearing.
###### Request for hearing.

(b)(1) The request for a hearing must be signed by the debtor, state each issue being disputed, and identify and explain with reasonable specificity all facts and evidence that the debtor believes supports the debtor's position. Supporting documentation identified by the debtor should be attached to the request.

(2) Effect of timely request. Subject to paragraph (j) of this section, if the debtor's written request is received on or before the 15th business day following the mailing of the written notice required under this part, a withholding order shall not be issued under ยง 32.6 until the debtor has been provided the requested hearing and a decision in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section has been rendered.

(3) Failure to timely request a hearing. If the debtor's written request is received after the 15th business day following the mailing of the written notice required under this part, the Secretary shall provide a hearing to the debtor. However, the Secretary shall not delay the issuance of a withholding order unless the Secretary determines that the delay in submitting such request was caused by factors beyond the control of the debtor, or the Secretary receives information that the Secretary determines justifies a delay or cancellation of the withholding order.
