
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart E - Exchange Functions in the Individual Market: Enrollment in Qualified Health Plans
###### ยง 155.410 Initial and annual open enrollment periods.
####### Effective date.

(f)(1) For the benefit year beginning on January 1, 2015, the Exchange must ensure coverage is effective-

(i) January 1, 2015, for QHP selections received by the Exchange on or before December 15, 2014.

(ii) February 1, 2015, for QHP selections received by the Exchange from December 16, 2014 through January 15, 2015.

(iii) March 1, 2015, for QHP selections received by the Exchange from January 16, 2015 through February 15, 2015.

(2) For the benefit years beginning on January 1, 2016 through January 1, 2021, the Exchange must ensure coverage is effective-

(i) January 1, for QHP selections received by the Exchange on or before December 15 of the calendar year preceding the benefit year.

(ii) February 1, for QHP selections received by the Exchange from December 16 of the calendar year preceding the benefit year through January 15 of the benefit year.

(iii) March 1, for QHP selections received by the Exchange from January 16 through January 31 of the benefit year.

(3) For benefit years beginning on or after January 1, 2022, the Exchange must ensure that coverage is effective-

(i) Subject to paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section-

(A) January 1, for QHP selections received by the Exchange on or before December 15 of the calendar year preceding the benefit year.

(B) February 1, for QHP selections received by the Exchange from December 16 of the calendar year preceding the benefit year through January 15 of the benefit year.

(C) The first of the following month, for QHP selections received by the 15 of a month after January, if applicable under paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.

(D) The first of the second following month, for plan selections received between the 16th and the end of a month, beginning January 16 of the benefit year, if applicable under paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.

(ii) For State Exchanges not utilizing the Federal platform, for a QHP selection received by the Exchange during the open enrollment period for which effective dates specified in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section would apply, the Exchange may provide a coverage effective date that is earlier than specified in such paragraph.
