
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart E - Exchange Functions in the Individual Market: Enrollment in Qualified Health Plans
###### ยง 155.430 Termination of Exchange enrollment or coverage.
####### Termination events,Enrollee-initiated terminations.

(b)-(1)(i) The Exchange must permit an enrollee to terminate his or her coverage or enrollment in a QHP through the Exchange, including as a result of the enrollee obtaining other minimum essential coverage. To the extent the enrollee has the right to terminate the coverage under applicable State laws, including "free look" cancellation laws, the enrollee may do so, in accordance with such laws.

(ii) The Exchange must provide an opportunity at the time of plan selection for an enrollee to choose to remain enrolled in a QHP if he or she becomes eligible for other minimum essential coverage and the enrollee does not request termination in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. If an enrollee does not choose to remain enrolled in a QHP in such situation, the Exchange must initiate termination of his or her enrollment in the QHP upon completion of the process specified in ยง 155.330(e)(2).

(iii) The Exchange must establish a process to permit individuals, including enrollees' authorized representatives, to report the death of an enrollee for purposes of initiating termination of the enrollee's Exchange enrollment. The Exchange may require the reporting party to submit documentation of the death. Any applicable premium refund, or premium due, must be processed by the deceased enrollee's QHP in accordance with State law.

(iv) The Exchange must permit an enrollee to retroactively terminate or cancel his or her coverage or enrollment in a QHP in the following circumstances:

(A) The enrollee demonstrates to the Exchange that he or she attempted to terminate his or her coverage or enrollment in a QHP and experienced a technical error that did not allow the enrollee to terminate his or her coverage or enrollment through the Exchange, and requests retroactive termination within 60 days after he or she discovered the technical error.

(B) The enrollee demonstrates to the Exchange that his or her enrollment in a QHP through the Exchange was unintentional, inadvertent, or erroneous and was the result of the error or misconduct of an officer, employee, or agent of the Exchange or HHS, its instrumentalities, or a non-Exchange entity providing enrollment assistance or conducting enrollment activities. Such enrollee must request cancellation within 60 days of discovering the unintentional, inadvertent, or erroneous enrollment. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(B), misconduct includes the failure to comply with applicable standards under this part, part 156 of this subchapter, or other applicable Federal or State requirements as determined by the Exchange.

(C) The enrollee demonstrates to the Exchange that he or she was enrolled in a QHP without his or her knowledge or consent by any third party, including third parties who have no connection with the Exchange, and requests cancellation within 60 days of discovering of the enrollment.
