
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart E - Exchange Functions in the Individual Market: Enrollment in Qualified Health Plans
###### ยง 155.430 Termination of Exchange enrollment or coverage.
####### Effective dates for termination of coverage or enrollment.

(d)(1) For purposes of this section-

(i) Reasonable notice is defined as at least fourteen days before the requested effective date of termination; and

(ii) Changes in eligibility for advance payments of the premium tax credit and cost sharing reductions, including terminations, must adhere to the effective dates specified in ยง 155.330(f).

(2) In the case of a termination in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the last day of enrollment through the Exchange is-

(i) The termination date specified by the enrollee, if the enrollee provides reasonable notice;

(ii) If the enrollee does not provide reasonable notice, fourteen days after the termination is requested by the enrollee; or

(iii) At the option of the Exchange, on the date on which the termination is requested by the enrollee, or on another prospective date selected by the enrollee; or

(iv) If an Exchange does not require an earlier termination date in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, at the option of the QHP issuer, on a date on or after the termination is requested by the enrollee that is less than 14 days after the termination is requested by the enrollee, if the enrollee requests an earlier termination date; or

(v) At the option of the Exchange, for an individual who is newly determined eligible for Medicaid, CHIP, or the Basic Health Program, if a Basic Health Program is operating in the service area of the Exchange, the day before the enrollee's date of eligibility for Medicaid, CHIP, or the Basic Health Program.

(vi) The retroactive termination date requested by the enrollee, if specified by applicable State laws.

(3) In the case of a termination in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the last day of enrollment in a QHP through the Exchange is the last day of eligibility, as described in ยง 155.330(f), unless the individual requests an earlier termination effective date per paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) In the case of a termination in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, the last day of enrollment in a QHP through the Exchange will be the last day of the first month of the 3-month grace period.

(5) In the case of a termination in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, the last day of enrollment in a QHP through the Exchange should be consistent with existing State laws regarding grace periods.

(6) In the case of a termination in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section, the last day of coverage in an enrollee's prior QHP is the day before the effective date of coverage in his or her new QHP, including any retroactive enrollments effectuated under ยง 155.420(b)(2)(iii).

(7) In the case of a termination due to death, the last day of enrollment in a QHP through the Exchange is the date of death.

(8) In cases of retroactive termination dates, the Exchange will ensure that appropriate actions are taken to make necessary adjustments to advance payments of the premium tax credit, cost-sharing reductions, premiums, claims, and user fees.

(9) In case of a retroactive termination in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(A) of this section, the termination date will be no sooner than the date that would have applied under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, based on the date that the enrollee can demonstrate he or she contacted the Exchange to terminate his or her coverage or enrollment through the Exchange, had the technical error not occurred.

(10) In case of a retroactive cancellation or termination in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(B) or (C) of this section, the cancellation date or termination date will be the original coverage effective date or a later date, as determined appropriate by the Exchange, based on the circumstances of the cancellation or termination.

(11) In the case of cancellation in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section, the Exchange may cancel the enrollee's enrollment upon its determination that the enrollment was performed without the enrollee's knowledge or consent and following reasonable notice to the enrollee (where possible). The termination date will be the original coverage effective date.

(12) In the case of retroactive cancellations or terminations in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(A), (B) and (C) of this section, such terminations or cancellations for the preceding coverage year must be initiated within a timeframe established by the Exchange based on a balance of operational needs and consumer protection. This timeframe will not apply to cases adjudicated through the appeals process.
