
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart H - Exchange Functions: Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP)
###### ยง 155.706 Functions of a SHOP for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.
####### SHOP options with respect to employer choice requirements.

(3)(i) A SHOP:

(A) Must allow an employer to make available to qualified employees all QHPs at the level of coverage selected by the employer as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and

(B) May allow an employer to make one or more QHPs available to qualified employees by a method other than the method described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(ii) A Federally-facilitated SHOP will provide a qualified employer a choice of two methods to make QHPs available to qualified employees:

(A) The employer may choose a level of coverage as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or

(B) The employer may choose a single QHP.

(iii) A SHOP may, and a Federally-facilitated SHOP will provide a qualified employer a choice of two methods to make stand-alone dental plans available to qualified employees:

(A) The employer may choose to make available a single stand-alone dental plan.

(B) The employer may choose to make available all stand-alone dental plans offered through a SHOP.

(iv) A SHOP may also provide a qualified employer with a choice of a third method to make QHPs available to qualified employees by offering its qualified employees a choice of all QHPs offered through the SHOP by a single issuer across all available levels of coverage, as described in section 1302(d)(1) of the Affordable Care Act and implemented in ยง 156.140(b) of this subchapter. A State with a Federally-facilitated SHOP may recommend that the Federally-facilitated SHOP not make this additional option available in that State, by submitting a letter to HHS in advance of the annual QHP certification application deadline, by a date to be established by HHS. The State's letter must describe and justify the State's recommendation, based on the anticipated impact this additional option would have on the small group market and consumers.

(v) A SHOP may also provide a qualified employer with a choice of a third method to make stand-alone dental plans available to qualified employees by offering its qualified employees a choice of all stand-alone dental plans offered through the SHOP by a single issuer. A State with a Federally-facilitated SHOP may recommend that the Federally-facilitated SHOP not make this additional option available in that State, by submitting a letter to HHS in advance of the annual QHP certification application deadline, by a date to be established by HHS. The State's letter must describe and justify the State's recommendation, based on the anticipated impact this additional option would have on the small group market and consumers.

(vi) States operating a State Exchange utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP enrollment functions will have the same employer choice models available as States with a Federally-facilitated SHOP, except that a State with a State Exchange utilizing the Federal platform for SHOP enrollment functions may decide against offering the employer choice models specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv) and (v) of this section in that State, provided that the State notifies HHS of that decision in advance of the annual QHP certification application deadline, by a date to be established by HHS.
