
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart H - Exchange Functions: Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP)
###### ยง 155.735 Termination of SHOP enrollment or coverage for plan years beginning prior to January 1, 2018.
####### Termination of employer group health coverage for non-payment of premiums.

(c)(1) The SHOP must establish policies for termination for non-payment of premiums, including but not limited to policies regarding due dates for payment of premiums to the SHOP, grace periods, employer and employee notices, and reinstatement provisions.

(2) In an FF-SHOP, for premium payments other than payments for the first month of coverage-

(i) For a given month of coverage, premium payment is due by the first day of the coverage month.

(ii) If premium payment is not received 31 days from the first of the coverage month, the Federally-facilitated SHOP may terminate the qualified employer for lack of payment. The termination would take effect on the last day of the month for which the Federally-facilitated SHOP received full payment.

(iii) If a qualified employer is terminated due to lack of premium payment, but within 30 days following its termination the qualified employer requests reinstatement, pays all premiums owed including any prior premiums owed for coverage during the grace period, and pays the premium for the next month's coverage, the Federally-facilitated SHOP must reinstate the qualified employer in its previous coverage. A qualified employer may be reinstated in the Federally-facilitated SHOP only once per calendar year.
