
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart H - Exchange Functions: Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP)
###### § 155.735 Termination of SHOP enrollment or coverage for plan years beginning prior to January 1, 2018.
####### Termination of employee or dependent coverage or enrollment.

(d)(1) The SHOP must establish consistent policies regarding the process for and effective dates of termination of employee or dependent coverage or enrollment in the following circumstances:

(i) The employee or dependent is no longer eligible for coverage under the employer's group health plan;

(ii) The employee requests that the SHOP terminate the coverage of the employee or a dependent of the employee under the employer's group health plan;

(iii) The QHP in which the enrollee is enrolled terminates, is decertified as described in § 155.1080, or its certification as a QHP is not renewed;

(iv) The enrollee changes from one QHP to another during the employer's annual open enrollment period or during a special enrollment period in accordance with § 155.725(j); or

(v) The enrollee's coverage is rescinded in accordance with § 147.128 of this subtitle.

(2) In the FF-SHOP, termination is effective:

(i) In the case of a termination in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), and (v) of this section, termination is effective on the last day of the month in which the Federally-facilitated SHOP receives notice of the event described in paragraph (d)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), or (v) of this section.

(ii) In the case of a termination in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section, the last day of coverage in an enrollee's prior QHP is the day before the effective date of coverage in his or her new QHP, including for any retroactive enrollments effectuated under § 155.725(j)(5).

(iii) The FF-SHOP will send qualified employees a notice notifying them in advance of a child dependent's loss of eligibility for dependent child coverage under their plan because of age. The notice will be sent 90 days in advance of the date when the dependent enrollee would lose eligibility for dependent child coverage. The enrollee will also receive a separate termination notice when coverage is terminated, under § 155.735(g).
