
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart H - Exchange Functions: Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP)
###### ยง 155.735 Termination of SHOP enrollment or coverage for plan years beginning prior to January 1, 2018.
####### Notice of termination.

(g)Beginning January 1, 2016:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, if any enrollee's coverage or enrollment through the SHOP is terminated due to non-payment of premiums or due to a loss of the enrollee's eligibility to participate in the SHOP, including where an enrollee loses his or her eligibility because a qualified employer has lost its eligibility, the SHOP must notify the enrollee of the termination. Such notice must include the termination effective date and reason for termination, and must be sent within 3 business days if an electronic notice is sent, and within 5 business days if a mailed hard copy notice is sent.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, if an employer group's coverage or enrollment through the SHOP is terminated due to non-payment of premiums or, where applicable, due to a loss of the qualified employer's eligibility to offer coverage through the SHOP, the SHOP must notify the employer of the termination. Such notice must include the termination effective date and reason for termination, and must be sent within 3 business days if an electronic notice is sent, and within 5 business days if a mailed hard copy notice is sent.

(3) Where State law requires a QHP issuer to send the notices described in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, a SHOP is not required to send such notices.

(4) When a primary subscriber and his or her dependents live at the same address, a separate termination notice need not be sent to each dependent at that address, provided that the notice sent to each primary subscriber at that address contains all required information about the termination for the primary subscriber and his or her dependents at that address.
