
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 155 - EXCHANGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS AND OTHER RELATED STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
##### Subpart N - State Flexibility
###### ยง 155.1300 Basis and purpose.
####### Statutory basis.

(a)This subpart implements provisions of section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act, relating to Waivers for State Innovation, which the Secretary may authorize for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2017. Section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act requires the Secretary to issue regulations that provide for all of the following:

(1) A process for public notice and comment at the State level, including public hearings, sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input.

(2) A process for the submission of an application that ensures the disclosure of all of the following:

(i) The provisions of law that the State involved seeks to waive.

(ii) The specific plans of the State to ensure that the waiver will meet all requirements specified in section 1332.

(3) A process for the provision of public notice and comment after a waiver application is received by the Secretary, that is sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input and that does not impose requirements that are in addition to, or duplicative of, requirements imposed under the Administrative Procedures Act, or requirements that are unreasonable or unnecessarily burdensome with respect to State compliance.

(4) A process for the submission of reports to the Secretary by a State relating to the implementation of a waiver.

(5) A process for the periodic evaluation by the Secretary of programs under waivers.
