
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 156 - HEALTH INSURANCE ISSUER STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, INCLUDING STANDARDS RELATED TO EXCHANGES
##### Subpart B - Essential Health Benefits Package
###### ยง 156.155 Enrollment in catastrophic plans.
####### General rule.

(a)A health plan is a catastrophic plan if it meets the following conditions:

(1) Meets all applicable requirements for health insurance coverage in the individual market (including but not limited to those requirements described in parts 147 and 148 of this subchapter), and is offered only in the individual market.

(2) Does not provide a bronze, silver, gold, or platinum level of coverage described in section 1302(d) of the Affordable Care Act.

(3) Provides coverage of the essential health benefits under section 1302(b) of the Affordable Care Act, except that the plan provides no benefits for any plan year (except as provided in paragraphs (a)(4), (b), and (c) of this section) until the annual limitation on cost sharing in section 1302(c)(1) of the Affordable Care Act is reached.

(4) Provides coverage for at least three primary care visits per year before reaching the deductible.

(5) Covers only individuals who meet either of the following conditions:

(i) Have not attained the age of 30 prior to the first day of the plan or policy year.

(ii) Have received a certificate of exemption for the reasons identified in section 1302(e)(2)(B)(i) or (ii) of the Affordable Care Act.
