
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 33 - SALARY OFFSET
##### ยง 33.11 Salary offset when the Department is the creditor agency but not the paying agency.
###### Requesting recovery from current paying agency.

(2)(i) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the Department shall submit a certified debt claim containing the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and an installment agreement, or other instruction on the payment schedule, if applicable, to the employee's paying agency.

(ii) If the employee is in the process of separating from the Federal Government, the Department shall submit the certified debt claim to the employee's paying agency for collection as provided in ยง 33.10(e). The paying agency must certify the total amount of its collection on the debt and send a copy of the certification to the employee and another copy to the Department. If the paying agency's collection does not fully satisfy the debt, and the paying agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments that may be due the employee from other Federal Government sources, the paying agency will provide written notification of the outstanding debt to the agency responsible for making such payments to the employee, stating the employee owes a debt, the amount of the debt, and that the provisions of this section have been fully complied with. The Department must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before the collection can be made.

(iii) If the employee is already separated and all payments due from the employee's former paying agency have been paid, the Department may request, unless otherwise prohibited, that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (5 CFR 831.1801 or 5 CFR 845.401) or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the debt. See 31 U.S.C. 3716 and 31 CFR 901.3.

(iv) If the employee transfers to another paying agency, the Department must submit a properly certified debt claim to the new paying agency before collection can be resumed; however, the Department need not repeat the due process procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this part. The Department shall review the debt to ensure that collection is resumed by the new paying agency.
