
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 34 - CLAIMS FILED UNDER THE MILITARY PERSONNEL AND CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES ACT
##### ยง 34.4 Allowable claims.
###### What you can claim.

(a)(1) Claims for damage or loss may be allowed where possession of the property was lawful and reasonable under circumstances.

(2) Claims for property damage or loss by fire, flood, hurricane, theft, or other serious occurrence may be allowed when the property is located inside:

(i) Quarters that have been assigned or provided by the government; or

(ii) Quarters outside the United States whether assigned by the government or not, except when a civilian employee outside the U.S. is a local inhabitant.

(3) Claims for damage to, or loss of, property may be allowed when caused by:

(i) Marine, air disaster, enemy action or threat thereof, or other extraordinary risks incurred incident to the performance of official duties by the claimant; and

(ii) Efforts by the claimant to save human life or government property.

(4) Property used for the benefit of the government. Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property used for the benefit of the government at the request, or with the knowledge and consent of, superior authority.

(5) Claims for clothing and accessories may be allowed when loss or damage was caused by faulty or defective equipment or furnishings owned or managed by the Department.

(6) Claims for stolen property, only if it is determined that the claimant exercised due care in protecting his property and there is clear evidence that a burglary or theft occurred.

(7) Claims for automobiles, only when required to perform official business or parked on a government-owned or operated parking lot or garage incident to employment. This subsection does not include claims for damage or loss when traveling between place of residence and duty station, or when the loss or damage was caused by the negligence of a third party. If the automobile is a total loss, the maximum amount allowed is the value of the vehicle at the time of loss as determined by the National Automobile Dealer Association Appraisal Guide or similar publications.

(8) Claims for any other meritorious claims in exceptional cases may be allowed by the Claims Officer.

(9) Transportation or travel losses. Damage or loss of personal property, including baggage and household items, while being transported by a carrier, agent or agency of the government, or private conveyance, may be allowed only if the property is shipped under orders or in connection with travel orders.

(b) [Reserved]
