
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 156 - HEALTH INSURANCE ISSUER STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, INCLUDING STANDARDS RELATED TO EXCHANGES
##### Subpart J - Administrative Review of QHP Issuer Sanctions
###### ยง 156.957 Review by Administrator.

(a) The Administrator of CMS (which for purposes of this section may include his or her delegate), at his or her discretion, may review in whole or in part any initial agency decision issued under ยง 156.953.

(b) The Administrator may decide to review an initial agency decision if it appears from a preliminary review of the decision (or from a preliminary review of the record on which the initial agency decision was based, if available at the time) that:

(1) The ALJ made an erroneous interpretation of law or regulation.

(2) The initial agency decision is not supported by substantial evidence.

(3) The ALJ has incorrectly assumed or denied jurisdiction or extended his or her authority to a degree not provided for by statute or regulation.

(4) The ALJ decision requires clarification, amplification, or an alternative legal basis for the decision.

(5) The ALJ decision otherwise requires modification, reversal, or remand.

(c) Within 30 days of the date of the initial agency decision, the Administrator will mail a notice advising the respondent of any intent to review the decision in whole or in part.

(d) Within 30 days of receipt of a notice that the Administrator intends to review an initial agency decision, the respondent may submit, in writing, to the Administrator any arguments in support of, or exceptions to, the initial agency decision.

(e) This submission of the information indicated in paragraph (d) of this section must be limited to issues the Administrator has identified in his or her notice of intent to review, if the Administrator has given notice of an intent to review the initial agency decision only in part. A copy of this submission must be sent to the other party.

(f) After receipt of any submissions made pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section and any additional submissions for which the Administrator may provide, the Administrator will affirm, reverse, modify, or remand the initial agency decision. The Administrator will mail a copy of his or her decision to the respondent.

(g) The Administrator's decision will be based on the record on which the initial agency decision was based (as forwarded by the ALJ to the Administrator) and any materials submitted pursuant to paragraphs (b), (d), and (f) of this section.

(h) The Administrator's decision may rely on decisions of any courts and other applicable law, whether or not cited in the initial agency decision.
