
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 156 - HEALTH INSURANCE ISSUER STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, INCLUDING STANDARDS RELATED TO EXCHANGES
##### Subpart K - Cases Forwarded to Qualified Health Plans and Qualified Health Plan Issuers in Federally-facilitated Exchanges
###### ยง 156.1010 Standards.

(a) A case is a communication brought by a complainant that expresses dissatisfaction with a specific person or entity subject to State or Federal laws regulating insurance, concerning the person or entity's activities related to the offering of insurance, other than a communication with respect to an adverse benefit determination as defined in ยง 147.136(a)(2)(i) of this subchapter. Issues related to adverse benefit determinations are not addressed in this section and are subject to the provisions in ยง 147.136 of this subchapter governing internal claims appeals and external review. Issues related to eligibility determination processes and appeals are not addressed in this section and are subject to the provisions in subpart F of part 155.

(b) QHP issuers operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange must investigate and resolve, as appropriate, cases from the complainant forwarded to the issuer by HHS. Cases received by a QHP issuer operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange directly from a complainant or the complainant's authorized representative will be handled by the issuer through its internal customer service process.

(c) Cases may be forwarded to a QHP issuer operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange through a casework tracking system developed by HHS or other means as determined by HHS.

(d) Cases received by a QHP issuer operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange from HHS must be resolved within 15 calendar days of receipt of the case. Urgent cases as defined in paragraph (e) of this section that do not otherwise fall within the scope of ยง 147.136 of this subchapter must be resolved no later than 72 hours after receipt of the case. Where applicable State laws and regulations establish timeframes for case resolution that are stricter than the standards contained in this paragraph, QHP issuers operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange must comply with such stricter laws and regulations.

(e) For cases received from HHS by a QHP issuer operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange, an urgent case is one in which there is an immediate need for health services because the non-urgent standard could seriously jeopardize the enrollee's or potential enrollee's life, or health or ability to attain, maintain, or regain maximum function; or one in which the process for non-urgent cases would jeopardize the enrollee's or potential enrollee's ability enroll in a QHP through the Federally-facilitated Exchange.

(f) For cases received from HHS, QHP issuers operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange are required to notify complainants regarding the disposition of the as soon as possible upon resolution of the case, but in no event later than three (3) business days after the case is resolved.

(1) For the purposes of meeting the requirement in this paragraph (f), notification may be by verbal or written means as determined most appropriate by the QHP issuer.

(2) In instances when the initial notification of a case's disposition is not written, written notification must be provided to the consumer in a timely manner.

(g) For cases received from HHS, QHP issuers operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange must use the casework tracking system developed by HHS, or other means as determined by HHS, to document the following:

(1) The date of resolution of a case received from HHS;

(2) A resolution summary of the case no later than seven (7) business days after resolution of the case. The record must include a clear and concise narrative explaining how the case was resolved including information about how and when the complainant was notified of the resolution; and

(3) For a case in which a State agency, including but not limited to a State department of insurance, conducts an investigation related to that case, any compliance issues identified by the State agency implicating the QHP or QHP issuer.

(h) Cases received by a QHP issuer operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange from a State in which the issuer offers QHPs must be investigated and resolved according to applicable State laws and regulations. With respect to cases directly handled by the State, HHS or any other appropriate regulatory authority, QHP issuers operating in a Federally-facilitated Exchange must cooperate fully with the efforts of the State, HHS, or other regulatory authority to resolve the case.
