
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 156 - HEALTH INSURANCE ISSUER STANDARDS UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, INCLUDING STANDARDS RELATED TO EXCHANGES
##### Subpart M - Qualified Health Plan Issuer Responsibilities
###### ยง 156.1220 Administrative appeals.
####### Review by the Administrator of CMS.

(c)(1) Either the issuer or CMS may request review by the Administrator of CMS of the CMS hearing officer's decision. A request for review of the CMS hearing officer's decision must be submitted to the Administrator of CMS within 15 calendar days of the date of the CMS hearing officer's decision, and must specify the findings or issues that the issuer or CMS challenges. The issuer or CMS may submit for review by the Administrator of CMS a statement supporting the decision of the CMS hearing officer.

(2) After receiving a request for review, the Administrator of CMS has the discretion to elect to review the CMS hearing officer's decision or to decline to review the CMS hearing officer's decision. If the Administrator of CMS elects to review the CMS hearing officer's decision, the Administrator of CMS will also review the statements of the issuer and CMS, and any other information included in the record of the CMS hearing officer's decision, and will determine whether to uphold, reverse, or modify the CMS hearing officer's decision. The issuer or CMS must prove its case by clear and convincing evidence for issues of fact. The Administrator of CMS will send the decision and the reasons for the decision to the issuer.

(3) The Administrator of CMS's determination is final and binding.
