
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 158 - ISSUER USE OF PREMIUM REVENUE: REPORTING AND REBATE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart A - Disclosure and Reporting
###### ยง 158.150 Activities that improve health care quality.
####### 6

() Commencing with the 2012 reporting year and extending through the first reporting year in which the Secretary requires ICD-10 as the standard medical data code set, implementing ICD-10 code sets that are designed to improve quality and are adopted pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), 42 U.S.C. 1320d-2, as amended, limited to 0.3 percent of an issuer's earned premium as defined in ยง 158.130.

(B) [Reserved]

(ii) Prevent hospital readmissions through a comprehensive program for hospital discharge. Examples include:

(A) Comprehensive discharge planning (for example, arranging and managing transitions from one setting to another, such as hospital discharge to home or to a rehabilitation center) in order to help assure appropriate care that will, in all likelihood, avoid readmission to the hospital;

(B) Patient-centered education and counseling.

(C) Personalized post-discharge reinforcement and counseling by an appropriate health care professional.

(D) Any quality reporting and related documentation in non-electronic form for activities to prevent hospital readmission.

(E) Health information technology to support these activities.

(iii) Improve patient safety, reduce medical errors, and lower infection and mortality rates.

(A) Examples of activities primarily designed to improve patient safety, reduce medical errors, and lower infection and mortality rates include:
