
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 158 - ISSUER USE OF PREMIUM REVENUE: REPORTING AND REBATE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Calculating and Providing the Rebate
###### ยง 158.232 Calculating the credibility adjustment.
####### Deductible factor.

(c)(1) The deductible factor is based on the average per person deductible of policies whose experience is included in the aggregation, as determined under ยง 158.231 of this subpart. When the weighted average deductible, as determined in accordance with this section, exactly matches a deductible category listed in Table 2, the value associated with that deductible is the deductible factor. The deductible factor for an average weighted deductible between the values shown in Table 2 is determined by linear interpolation.

(i) The per person deductible for a policy that covers a subscriber and the subscriber's dependents shall be the lesser of: the deductible applicable to each of the individual family members; or the overall family deductible for the subscriber and subscriber's family divided by two (regardless of the total number of individuals covered through the subscriber).

(ii) The average deductible for an aggregation is calculated weighted by the life-years of experience for each deductible level of policies included in the aggregation.

(2) An issuer may choose to use a deductible factor of 1.0 in lieu of calculating a deductible factor based on the average of policies included in the aggregation.
