
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Requirements Relating to Health Care Access
#### PART 159 - HEALTH CARE REFORM INSURANCE WEB PORTAL
##### ยง 159.120 Data submission for the individual and small group markets.

(a) Health insurance issuers (hereinafter referred to as issuers) must, in accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary, submit corporate and contact information; administrative information; enrollment data by health insurance product; product names and types; whether enrollment is currently open for each health insurance product; geographic availability information; customer service phone numbers; and Web site links to the issuer Web site, brochure documents, and provider networks; and financial ratings on or before May 21, 2010, and annually thereafter.

(b) Issuers must, as determined by the Secretary, submit pricing and benefit information for their portal plans on or before September 3, 2010, and annually thereafter.

(c) Issuers must submit updated pricing and benefit data for their portal plans whenever they change premiums, cost-sharing, types of services covered, coverage limitations, or exclusions for one or more of their individual or small group portal plans.

(d) Issuers must submit pricing and benefit data for portal plans associated with products that are newly open or newly reopened for enrollment within 30 days of opening for enrollment.

(e) Issuers must annually verify the data submitted under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, and make corrections to any errors that are found.

(f) Issuers must submit administrative data on products and portal plans, and these performance ratings, percent of individual market and small group market policies that are rescinded; the percent of individual market policies sold at the manual rate; the percent of claims that are denied under individual market and small group market policies; and the number and disposition of appeals on denials to insure, pay claims and provide required preauthorizations, for future releases of the Web portal in accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary.

(g) The issuer's CEO or CFO must electronically certify to the completeness and accuracy of all data submitted for the October 1, 2010, release of the Web portal and for any future updates to these requirements.
