
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Administrative Data Standards and Related Requirements
#### PART 162 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart I - General Provisions for Transactions
###### ยง 162.925 Additional requirements for health plans.
####### General rules.

(a)(1) If an entity requests a health plan to conduct a transaction as a standard transaction, the health plan must do so.

(2) A health plan may not delay or reject a transaction, or attempt to adversely affect the other entity or the transaction, because the transaction is a standard transaction.

(3) A health plan may not reject a standard transaction on the basis that it contains data elements not needed or used by the health plan (for example, coordination of benefits information).

(4) A health plan may not offer an incentive for a health care provider to conduct a transaction covered by this part as a transaction described under the exception provided for in ยง 162.923(b).

(5) A health plan that operates as a health care clearinghouse, or requires an entity to use a health care clearinghouse to receive, process, or transmit a standard transaction may not charge fees or costs in excess of the fees or costs for normal telecommunications that the entity incurs when it directly transmits, or receives, a standard transaction to, or from, a health plan.

(6) During the period from March 17, 2009 through December 31, 2011, a health plan may not delay or reject a standard transaction, or attempt to adversely affect the other entity or the transaction, on the basis that it does not comply with another adopted standard for the same period.
