
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Administrative Data Standards and Related Requirements
#### PART 162 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart J - Code Sets
###### ยง 162.1002 Medical data code sets.
####### The Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS),

(3)as maintained and distributed by HHS, for all other substances, equipment, supplies, or other items used in health care services, with the exception of drugs and biologics. These items include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Medical supplies.

(ii) Orthotic and prosthetic devices.

(iii) Durable medical equipment.

(c) For the period on and after October 1, 2015:

(1) The code sets specified in paragraphs (a)(4), (a)(5), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section.

(2) International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-10-CM) (including The Official ICD-10-CM Guidelines for Coding and Reporting), as maintained and distributed by HHS, for the following conditions:

(i) Diseases.

(ii) Injuries.

(iii) Impairments.

(iv) Other health problems and their manifestations.

(v) Causes of injury, disease, impairment, or other health problems.

(3) International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision, Procedure Coding System (ICD-10-PCS) (including The Official ICD-10-PCS Guidelines for Coding and Reporting), as maintained and distributed by HHS, for the following procedures or other actions taken for diseases, injuries, and impairments on hospital inpatients reported by hospitals:

(i) Prevention.

(ii) Diagnosis.

(iii) Treatment.

(iv) Management.
