
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter C - Administrative Data Standards and Related Requirements
#### PART 164 - SECURITY AND PRIVACY
##### Subpart E - Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information
###### ยง 164.508 Uses and disclosures for which an authorization is required.
####### Implementation specifications: Core elements and requirements,Core elements.

(c)-(1)A valid authorization under this section must contain at least the following elements:

(i) A description of the information to be used or disclosed that identifies the information in a specific and meaningful fashion.

(ii) The name or other specific identification of the person(s), or class of persons, authorized to make the requested use or disclosure.

(iii) The name or other specific identification of the person(s), or class of persons, to whom the covered entity may make the requested use or disclosure.

(iv) A description of each purpose of the requested use or disclosure. The statement "at the request of the individual" is a sufficient description of the purpose when an individual initiates the authorization and does not, or elects not to, provide a statement of the purpose.

(v) An expiration date or an expiration event that relates to the individual or the purpose of the use or disclosure. The statement "end of the research study," "none," or similar language is sufficient if the authorization is for a use or disclosure of protected health information for research, including for the creation and maintenance of a research database or research repository.

(vi) Signature of the individual and date. If the authorization is signed by a personal representative of the individual, a description of such representative's authority to act for the individual must also be provided.
