
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Health Information Technology
#### PART 170 - HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS, IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFICATIONS, AND CERTIFICATION CRITERIA AND CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
##### Subpart B - Standards and Implementation Specifications for Health Information Technology
###### § 170.210 Standards for health information technology to protect electronic health information created, maintained, and exchanged.
####### Record actions related to electronic health information, audit log status, and encryption of end-user devices.

(e)(1)(i) The audit log must record the information specified in sections 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 and 7.1.6 through 7.1.9 of the standard specified in § 170.210(h) and changes to user privileges when health IT is in use.

(ii) The date and time must be recorded in accordance with the standard specified at § 170.210(g).

(2)(i) The audit log must record the information specified in sections 7.1.1 and 7.1.7 of the standard specified at § 170.210(h) when the audit log status is changed.

(ii) The date and time each action occurs in accordance with the standard specified at § 170.210(g).

(3) The audit log must record the information specified in sections 7.1.1 and 7.1.7 of the standard specified at § 170.210(h) when the encryption status of electronic health information locally stored by health IT on end-user devices is changed. The date and time each action occurs in accordance with the standard specified at § 170.210(g).
