
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Health Information Technology
#### PART 170 - HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS, IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFICATIONS, AND CERTIFICATION CRITERIA AND CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
##### Subpart E - ONC Health IT Certification Program
###### ยง 170.520 Application.
####### ONC-ACB application.

(a)Applicants must include the following information in an application for ONC-ACB status and submit it to the National Coordinator for the application to be considered complete.

(1) The type of authorization sought pursuant to ยง 170.510. For authorization to perform Health IT Module certification, applicants must indicate the specific type(s) of Health IT Module(s) they seek authorization to certify. If qualified, applicants will only be granted authorization to certify the type(s) of Health IT Module(s) for which they seek authorization.

(2) General identifying, information including:

(i) Name, address, city, state, zip code, and Web site of applicant; and

(ii) Designation of an authorized representative, including name, title, phone number, and email address of the person who will serve as the applicant's point of contact.

(3) Documentation that confirms that the applicant has been accredited to ISO/IEC 17065 (for availability, see ยง 170.599), with an appropriate scope, by any accreditation body that is a signatory to the Multilateral Recognition Arrangement (MLA) with the International Accreditation Forum (IAF).

(4) An agreement, properly executed by the applicant's authorized representative, that it will adhere to the Principles of Proper Conduct for ONC-ACBs.
