
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Health Information Technology
#### PART 170 - HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS, IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFICATIONS, AND CERTIFICATION CRITERIA AND CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
##### Subpart E - ONC Health IT Certification Program
###### ยง 170.530 Review of application.
####### Revised application.

(c)(1) An applicant is permitted to submit a revised application in response to a deficiency notice. An applicant may request from the National Coordinator an extension for good cause of the 15-day period provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to submit a revised application.

(2) In order for an applicant to continue to be considered for ONC-ACB or ONC-ATL status, the applicant's revised application must address the specified deficiencies and be received by the National Coordinator within 15 days of the applicant's receipt of the deficiency notice, unless the National Coordinator grants an applicant's request for an extension of the 15-day period based on a finding of good cause. If a good cause extension is granted, then the revised application must be received by the end of the extension period.

(3) The National Coordinator is permitted up to 15 days to review a revised application once it has been received and may request clarification of statements and the correction of errors or omissions in a revised application during this time period.

(4) If the National Coordinator determines that a revised application still contains deficiencies, the applicant will be issued a denial notice indicating that the applicant cannot reapply for ONC-ACB or ONC-ATL status for a period of six months from the date of the denial notice. An applicant may request reconsideration of this decision in accordance with ยง 170.535.
