
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Health Information Technology
#### PART 170 - HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS, IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFICATIONS, AND CERTIFICATION CRITERIA AND CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
##### Subpart E - ONC Health IT Certification Program
###### ยง 170.565 Revocation of ONC-ACB or ONC-ATL status.
####### Applicable to ONC-ATLs.

(iii)The continued testing of Health IT Modules by the ONC-ATL could have an adverse impact on the health or safety of patients.

(2) If the National Coordinator determines that the conditions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section have been met, an ONC-ATL or ONC-ACB will be issued a notice of proposed suspension.

(3) Upon receipt of a notice of proposed suspension, an ONC-ATL or ONC-ACB will be permitted up to 3 days to submit a written response to the National Coordinator explaining why its operations should not be suspended.

(4) The National Coordinator is permitted up to 5 days from receipt of an ONC-ATL or ONC-ACB's written response to a notice of proposed suspension to review the response and make a determination.

(5) The National Coordinator may make one of the following determinations in response to the ONC-ATL or ONC-ACB's written response or if the ONC-ATL or ONC-ACB fails to submit a written response within the timeframe specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section:

(i) Rescind the proposed suspension; or

(ii) Suspend the ONC-ATL or ONC-ACB's operations until it has adequately corrected a Type-2 violation; or

(iii) Propose revocation in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and suspend the ONC-ATL or ONC-ACB's operations for the duration of the revocation process.

(6) A suspension will become effective upon an ONC-ATL or ONC-ACB's receipt of a notice of suspension.
