
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Health Information Technology
#### PART 170 - HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS, IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFICATIONS, AND CERTIFICATION CRITERIA AND CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
##### Subpart E - ONC Health IT Certification Program
###### ยง 170.580 ONC review of certified health IT.
####### Suspension.

(d)(1) ONC may suspend the certification of a Health IT Module at any time if ONC has a reasonable belief that the certified health IT may present a serious risk to public health or safety.

(2) When ONC decides to suspend a certification, ONC will notify the health IT developer of its determination through a notice of suspension.

(i) The notice of suspension will include, but may not be limited to:

(A) An explanation for the suspension;

(B) Information supporting the determination;

(C) The consequences of suspension for the health IT developer and the Health IT Module under the ONC Health IT Certification Program; and

(D) Instructions for appealing the suspension.

(ii) A suspension of a certification will become effective upon the date specified in the notice of suspension.

(3) The health IT developer must notify all potentially affected customers of the identified non-conformity(ies) and suspension of certification in a timely manner.

(4) When a certification is suspended, the health IT developer must cease and desist from any marketing, licensing, and sale of the suspended Health IT Module as "certified" under the ONC Health IT Certification Program from that point forward until such time ONC cancels the suspension in accordance with paragraph (d)(6) of this section.

(5) The certification of any health IT produced by a health IT developer that has the certification of one of its Health IT Modules suspended under the Program is prohibited, unless ONC cancels a suspension in accordance with paragraph (d)(6) of this section.

(6) ONC may cancel a suspension at any time if ONC no longer has a reasonable belief that the certified health IT presents a serious risk to public health or safety.
