
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Health Information Technology
#### PART 170 - HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS, IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFICATIONS, AND CERTIFICATION CRITERIA AND CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
##### Subpart E - ONC Health IT Certification Program
###### ยง 170.580 ONC review of certified health IT.
####### 3

(C) A notice of non-conformity within the timeframe established in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)() of this section; or

(D) A notice of suspension.

(ii) The information or access provided by the health IT developer in response to any ONC communication, including, but not limited to: Fact-finding, a notice of potential non-conformity, or a notice of non-conformity is insufficient or incomplete;

(iii) The health IT developer fails to cooperate with ONC and/or a third party acting on behalf of ONC;

(iv) The health IT developer fails to timely submit in writing a proposed corrective action plan;

(v) The health IT developer fails to timely submit a corrective action plan that adequately addresses the elements required by ONC as described in paragraph (c) of this section;

(vi) The health IT developer does not fulfill its obligations under the corrective action plan developed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; or

(vii) ONC concludes that a certified health IT's non-conformity(ies) cannot be cured.

(2) When ONC decides to propose to terminate a certification, ONC will notify the health IT developer of the proposed termination through a notice of proposed termination.

(i) The notice of proposed termination will include, but may not be limited to:

(A) An explanation for the proposed termination;

(B) Information supporting the proposed termination; and

(C) Instructions for responding to the proposed termination.

(3) The health IT developer may respond to a notice of proposed termination, but must do so within 10 days of receiving the notice of proposed termination and must include appropriate documentation explaining in writing why its certification should not be terminated.

(4) Upon receipt of the health IT developer's written response to a notice of proposed termination, ONC has up to 30 days to review the information submitted by the health IT developer and make a determination. ONC may extend this timeframe if the complexity of the case requires additional time for ONC review. ONC will, as applicable:

(i) Notify the health IT developer in writing that it has ceased all or part of its review of the health IT developer's certified health IT.

(ii) Notify the health IT developer in writing of its intent to continue all or part of its review of the certified health IT under the provisions of this section.

(iii) Proceed to terminate the certification of the health IT under review consistent with paragraph (f) of this section.
