
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Health Information Technology
#### PART 170 - HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS, IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFICATIONS, AND CERTIFICATION CRITERIA AND CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS FOR HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
##### Subpart E - ONC Health IT Certification Program
###### ยง 170.580 ONC review of certified health IT.
####### 3,3

() A notice of non-conformity within the timeframe established in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)() of this section.

(B) The information or access provided by the health IT developer in response to any ONC communication, including, but not limited to: Fact-finding, a notice of potential non-conformity, or a notice of non-conformity is insufficient or incomplete;

(C) The health IT developer fails to cooperate with ONC and/or a third party acting on behalf of ONC;

(D) The health IT developer fails to timely submit in writing a proposed corrective action plan;

(E) The health IT developer fails to timely submit a corrective action plan that adequately addresses the elements required by ONC as described in paragraph (c) of this section;

(F) The health IT developer does not fulfill its obligations under the corrective action plan developed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; or

(G) ONC concludes that the non-conformity(ies) cannot be cured.

(2) When ONC decides to terminate a certification, ONC will notify the health IT developer of its determination through a notice of termination.

(i) The notice of termination will include, but may not be limited to:

(A) An explanation for the termination;

(B) Information supporting the determination;

(C) The consequences of termination for the health IT developer and the Health IT Module under the ONC Health IT Certification Program; and

(D) Instructions for appealing the termination.

(ii) A termination of a certification will become effective after the following applicable occurrence:

(A) The expiration of the 10-day period for filing a statement of intent to appeal in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section if the health IT developer does not file a statement of intent to appeal.

(B) The expiration of the 30-day period for filing an appeal in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section if the health IT developer files a statement of intent to appeal, but does not file a timely appeal.

(C) A final determination to terminate the certification per paragraph (g)(7) of this section if a health IT developer files an appeal.

(3) The health IT developer must notify all potentially affected customers of the identified non-conformity(ies) and termination of certification in a timely manner.

(4) ONC may rescind a termination determination before the termination becomes effective if ONC determines that termination is no longer appropriate.
