
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 60 - NATIONAL PRACTITIONER DATA BANK
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 60.3 Definitions.
####### Other adjudicated actions or decisions

means formal or official final actions taken against a health care practitioner, provider, or supplier by a Federal governmental agency, a state law or fraud enforcement agency, or a health plan, which include the availability of a due process mechanism, and are based on acts or omissions that affect or could affect the payment, provision, or delivery of a health care item or service. For example, a formal or official final action taken by a Federal governmental agency, a state law or fraud enforcement agency, or a health plan may include, but is not limited to, a personnel-related action such as suspensions without pay, reductions in pay, reductions in grade for cause, terminations, or other comparable actions. A hallmark of any valid adjudicated action or decision is the availability of a due process mechanism. The fact that the subject elects not to use the due process mechanism provided by the authority bringing the action is immaterial, as long as such a process is available to the subject before the adjudicated action or decision is made final. In general, if an "adjudicated action or decision" follows an agency's established administrative procedures (which ensure that due process is available to the subject of the final adverse action), it would qualify as a reportable action under this definition. This definition specifically excludes clinical privileging actions taken by Federal Government agencies or state law and fraud enforcement agencies and similar paneling decisions made by health plans. This definition does not include overpayment determinations made by Federal or state government programs, their contractors or health plans, and it does not include denial of claims determinations made by Federal Government agencies, state law or fraud enforcement agencies, or health plans. This definition also does not include business or administrative decisions taken by health plans that result in contract terminations unrelated to health care fraud or abuse or quality of care (e.g., when a practitioner's contract is terminated because the practitioner no longer practices at a facility in the health plan's network, or a health plan terminates all provider contracts in a certain geographic area because it ceases business operations in that area). For health plans that are not government entities, an action taken following adequate notice and the opportunity for a hearing that meets the standards of due process set out in section 412(b) of the HCQIA (42 U.S.C. 11112(b)) also would qualify as a reportable action under this definition.
