
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Price Transparency
#### PART 180 - HOSPITAL PRICE TRANSPARENCY
##### Subpart B - Public Disclosure Requirements
###### ยง 180.60 Requirements for displaying shoppable services in a consumer-friendly manner.
####### General rules.

(a)(1) A hospital must make public the standard charges identified in paragraphs (b)(3) through (6) of this section, for as many of the 70 CMS-specified shoppable services that are provided by the hospital, and as many additional hospital-selected shoppable services as is necessary for a combined total of at least 300 shoppable services.

(i) In selecting a shoppable service for purposes of this section, a hospital must consider the rate at which it provides and bills for that shoppable service.

(ii) If a hospital does not provide 300 shoppable services, the hospital must make public the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section for as many shoppable services as it provides.

(2) A hospital is deemed by CMS to meet the requirements of this section if the hospital maintains an internet-based price estimator tool which meets the following requirements.

(i) Provides estimates for as many of the 70 CMS-specified shoppable services that are provided by the hospital, and as many additional hospital-selected shoppable services as is necessary for a combined total of at least 300 shoppable services.

(ii) Allows healthcare consumers to, at the time they use the tool, obtain an estimate of the amount they will be obligated to pay the hospital for the shoppable service.

(iii) Is prominently displayed on the hospital's website and accessible to the public without charge and without having to register or establish a user account or password.
