
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Price Transparency
#### PART 180 - HOSPITAL PRICE TRANSPARENCY
##### Subpart B - Public Disclosure Requirements
###### ยง 180.60 Requirements for displaying shoppable services in a consumer-friendly manner.
####### Required data elements.

(b)A hospital must include, as applicable, all of the following corresponding data elements when displaying its standard charges (identified in paragraphs (b)(3) through (6) of this section) for its list of shoppable services selected under paragraph (a)(1) of this section:

(1) A plain-language description of each shoppable service.

(2) An indicator when one or more of the CMS-specified shoppable services are not offered by the hospital.

(3) The payer-specific negotiated charge that applies to each shoppable service (and to each ancillary service, as applicable). Each list of payer-specific negotiated charges must be clearly associated with the name of the third party payer and plan.

(4) The discounted cash price that applies to each shoppable service (and corresponding ancillary services, as applicable). If the hospital does not offer a discounted cash price for one or more shoppable services (or corresponding ancillary services), the hospital must list its undiscounted gross charge for the shoppable service (and corresponding ancillary services, as applicable).

(5) The de-identified minimum negotiated charge that applies to each shoppable service (and to each corresponding ancillary service, as applicable).

(6) The de-identified maximum negotiated charge that applies to each shoppable service (and to each corresponding ancillary service, as applicable).

(7) The location at which the shoppable service is provided, including whether the standard charges identified in paragraphs (b)(3) through (6) of this section for the shoppable service apply at that location to the provision of that shoppable service in the inpatient setting, the outpatient department setting, or both.

(8) Any primary code used by the hospital for purposes of accounting or billing for the shoppable service, including, as applicable, the Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code, the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code, the Diagnosis Related Group (DRG), or other common service billing code.
