
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Price Transparency
#### PART 180 - HOSPITAL PRICE TRANSPARENCY
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Penalties for Noncompliance
###### ยง 180.90 Civil monetary penalties.
####### Amount of the civil monetary penalty.

(c)(1) CMS may impose a civil monetary penalty upon a hospital for a violation of each requirement of this part.

(2) CMS determines the daily dollar amount for a civil monetary penalty for which a hospital may be subject as follows:

(i) For each day during Calendar Year 2021 that a hospital is determined by CMS to be out of compliance, the maximum daily dollar amount for a civil monetary penalty to which the hospital may be subject is $300. Even if the hospital is in violation of multiple discrete requirements of this part, the maximum total sum that a single hospital may be assessed per day is $300.

(ii) Beginning January 1, 2022, for each day a hospital is determined by CMS to be out of compliance:

(A) For a hospital with a number of beds equal to or less than 30, the maximum daily dollar civil monetary penalty amount to which it may be subject is $300, even if the hospital is in violation of multiple discrete requirements of this part.

(B) For a hospital with at least 31 and up to and including 550 beds, the maximum daily dollar civil monetary penalty amount to which it may be subject is the number of beds times $10, even if the hospital is in violation of multiple discrete requirements of this part.

(C) For a hospital with a number of beds greater than 550, the maximum daily dollar civil monetary penalty amount to which it may be subject is $5,500, even if the hospital is in violation of multiple discrete requirements of this part.
