
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Price Transparency
#### PART 180 - HOSPITAL PRICE TRANSPARENCY
##### Subpart D - Appeals of Civil Monetary Penalties
###### § 180.100 Appeal of penalty.

(a) A hospital upon which CMS has imposed a penalty under this part may appeal that penalty in accordance with subpart D of part 150 of this title, except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) For purposes of applying subpart D of part 150 of this title to appeals of civil monetary penalties under this part:

(1) Civil money penalty means a civil monetary penalty according to § 180.90.

(2) Respondent means a hospital that received a notice of imposition of a civil monetary penalty according to § 180.90(b).

(3) References to a notice of assessment or proposed assessment, or notice of proposed determination of civil monetary penalties, are considered to be references to the notice of imposition of a civil monetary penalty specified in § 180.90(b).

(4) Under § 150.417(b) of this title, in deciding whether the amount of a civil money penalty is reasonable, the ALJ may only consider evidence of record relating to the following:

(i) The hospital's posting(s) of its standard charges, if available.

(ii) Material the hospital timely previously submitted to CMS (including with respect to corrective actions and corrective action plans).

(iii) Material CMS used to monitor and assess the hospital's compliance according to § 180.70(a)(2).

(5) The ALJ's consideration of evidence of acts other than those at issue in the instant case under § 150.445(g) of this title does not apply.
