
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Price Transparency
#### PART 182 - PRICE TRANSPARENCY FOR COVID-19 DIAGNOSTIC TESTS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Penalties for Noncompliance
###### § 182.70 Civil monetary penalties.
####### Notice of imposition of a civil monetary penalty.

(b)(1) If CMS imposes a penalty in accordance with this part, CMS will provide a written notice of imposition of a civil monetary penalty to the provider via certified mail or another form of traceable carrier.

(2) This notice to the provider may include, but is not limited to, the following:

(i) The basis for the provider's noncompliance, including, but not limited to, the following:

(A) CMS' determination as to which requirement(s) the provider has violated.

(B) The provider's failure to respond to CMS' request to submit a corrective action plan or comply with the requirements of a corrective action plan, as described in § 182.60(d).

(ii) CMS' determination as to the effective date for the violation(s). This date is the latest date of the following:

(A) The first day the provider is required to meet the requirements of this part.

(B) A date determined by CMS, such as one resulting from monitoring activities specified in § 182.50, or development of a corrective action plan as specified in § 182.60.

(iii) The amount of the penalty as of the date of the notice.

(iv) A statement that a civil monetary penalty may continue to be imposed for continuing violation(s).

(v) Payment instructions.

(vi) A statement of the provider's right to a hearing according to subpart D of this part.

(vii) A statement that the provider's failure to request a hearing within 30 calendar days of the issuance of the notice permits the imposition of the penalty, and any subsequent penalties pursuant to continuing violations, without right of appeal in accordance with § 182.90.

(3) If the civil monetary penalty is upheld, in part, by a final and binding decision according to subpart D of this part, CMS will issue a modified notice of imposition of a civil monetary penalty, to conform to the adjudicated finding.
