
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 201 - GRANTS TO STATES FOR PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Review and Audits
###### ยง 201.14 Reconsideration under section 1116(d) of the Act.
####### Reconsideration procedures.

(d)(1) The Administrator will promptly acknowledge receipt of a State's request for reconsideration.

(2) Upon receipt of a copy of the request for reconsideration, the Regional Administrator, shall, within 30 days of the request, provide to the Administrator a complete record of all material which he believes to have a bearing on the reconsideration, including any reports of audit or review which were the basis for his decision.

(3) The Administrator shall promptly forward to the State a list of all items currently in the record, including those received from the Regional Administrator, or with respect to the medical assistance program under title XIX, Regional Medicaid Director and make available for examination, inspection and copying any such items not previously received by the State.

(4) Within 60 days from the date of the Administrator's transmittal to the State under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the State shall submit in writing to the Administrator any new relevant evidence, documentation, or argument and shall simultaneously submit a copy thereof to the Regional Administrator, or with respect to the medical assistance program under title XIX, Regional Medicaid Director.

(5) The Regional Administrator, or with respect to the medical assistance program under title XIX, Regional Medicaid Director shall, within 60 days of submittal by the State, submit to the Administrator (with a copy to the State) an analysis of the issues relevant to the disallowance including:

(i) A restatement of the findings on which the disallowance was based;

(ii) A response to each issue raised by the State with respect to such findings;

(iii) A response to any other issues raised by the State, providing additional documentation when necessary; and

(iv) Any additional documentation which he deems relevant.

(6) The State may respond to the material submitted by the Regional Administrator, or with respect to the medical assistance program under title XIX, Regional Medicaid Director by submitting to the Administrator within 15 days any supplemental material the State wishes to have entered into the record.

(7) At the time of submitting any additional material pursuant to paragraph (d)(4), the State may obtain, upon request to him, a conference with the Administrator, during which it may discuss with the Administrator its position on the issues. The State may, at its own expense, have such conference transcribed; the transcript shall become part of the administrative record.

(8) In reconsidering the disallowance, the Administrator may request any additional information or documents necessary to his decision.

(9) New relevant evidence received into the record by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (d)(8) of this section which is not received from, or previously otherwise made available to, the State shall promptly be made available to the State for examination, inspection, and copying and the State will be given appropriate additional time for comment.

(10) All documents, reports, correspondence, and other materials considered by the Administrator in reaching his decision shall constitute the record of the reconsideration proceedings.

(11) After consideration of such record and the laws and regulations pertinent to the issues in question, the Administrator shall issue a written decision, based on the administrative record, which summarizes the facts and cites the regulations or statutes that support the decision. The decision shall constitute final administrative action on the matter and shall be promptly mailed to the head of the State agency.

(12) Either the state or the Regional Administrator, or with respect to the medical assistance program under title XIX, Regional Medicaid Director may request from the Administrator, for good cause, an extension of any of the time limits specified in this section.

(13) No section of this regulation shall be interpreted as waiving the Department's right to assert any provision or exemption in the Freedom of Information Act.
