
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 205 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION - PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 205.25 Eligibility of supplemental security income beneficiaries for food stamps or surplus commodities.

(a) In respect to any individual who is receiving supplemental security income benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act, the State agency shall make the following determinations:

(1) The amount of assistance such individual would have been entitled to receive for any month under the appropriate State plan in effect for December 1973, under title I, X, XIV, or XVI, and for such purpose such individual shall be deemed to be aged, blind, or permanently and totally disabled, as the case may be, under the provisions of such plan.

(2) The bonus value of the food stamps (according to the Food Stamp Schedule effective for July 1973) such individual would have been entitled to receive for such month, assuming the individual were receiving the assistance determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) The amount of benefits such individual is receiving for such month under Title XVI, plus supplementary payments as defined in section 1616(a) of the Social Security Act and payments pursuant to section 212 of Pub. L. 93-66, if any.

(b) If the amount determined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section plus the amount determined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds the amount determined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, such individual shall be eligible to participate in the food stamp program established by the Food Stamp Act of 1964 or surplus commodities distribution programs established by the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 1949, section 32 of Pub. L. 74-320, or any other law, in accordance with regulations and procedures established by the Secretary of Agriculture.

(c) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the State agency shall obtain the amount of the title XVI payment and the amount of any Federally administered State supplementary payment from the Social Security Administration.

(d) The State agency shall redetermine the eligibility of individuals to participate in the food stamp or surplus commodities distribution programs hereunder at such times as the Secretary of Agriculture requires re-certification for such stamps or commodities.
