
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 205 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION - PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### § 205.50 Safeguarding information for the financial assistance programs.
###### Exception.

(iv) Publication of lists or names of applicants and recipients will be prohibited.In respect to a State plan for financial assistance under title I, IVA, X, XIV, or XVI (AABD) of the Social Security Act, an exception to this restriction may be made by reason of the enactment or enforcement of State legislation, prescribing any conditions under which public access may be had to records of the disbursement of funds or payments under such titles within the State, if such legislation prohibits the use of any list or names obtained through such access to such records for commercial or political purposes.

(v) The State or local agency responsible for the administration of the State plan has authority to disclose the current address of a recipient to a State or local law enforcement officer at his or her request. Such information is disclosed only to law enforcement officers who provide the name and Social Security number of the recipient and satisfactorily demonstrate that:

(A) The recipient is a fugitive felon (as defined by the State);

(B) The location or apprehension of such felon is within the law officer's official duties; and

(C) The request is made in the proper exercise of those duties.

(2) The agency will have clearly defined criteria which govern the types of information that are safeguarded and the conditions under which such information may be released or used. Under this requirement:

(i) Types of information to be safeguarded include but are not limited to:

(A) The names and addresses of applicants and recipients and amounts of assistance provided (unless excepted under paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section);

(B) Information related to the social and economic conditions or circumstances of a particular individual including information obtained from any agency pursuant to § 205.55; information obtained from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Social Security Administration (SSA) must be safeguarded in accordance with procedures set forth by those agencies;

(C) Agency evaluation of information about a particular individual;

(D) Medical data, including diagnosis and past history of disease or disability, concerning a particular individual.

(ii) The release or use of information concerning individuals applying for or receiving financial assistance is restricted to persons or agency representatives who are subject to standards of confidentiality which are comparable to those of the agency administering the financial assistance programs.

(iii) Except in the case of information requested pursuant to §§ 205.55 and 205.56, or in the case of an emergency situation when the individual's prior consent for the release of information cannot be obtained, the family or individual is informed whenever possible of a request for information from an outside source, and permission is obtained to meet the request. In an emergency situation when the individual's consent for the release of information cannot be obtained, the individual will be notified immediately.

(iv) In the event of the issuance of a subpoena for the case record or for any agency representative to testify concerning an applicant or recipient, the court's attention is called, through proper channels to the statutory provisions and the policies or rules and regulations against disclosure of information.

(v) The same policies are applied to requests for information from a governmental authority, the courts, or a law enforcement officer (except as provided for under paragraph (a)(1)(v) with respect to fugitive felons) as from any other outside source.

(3)(i) The agency will publicize provisions governing the confidential nature of information about applicants and recipients, including the legal sanctions imposed for improper disclosure and use, and will make these provisions available to applicants and recipients and to other persons and agencies to whom information is disclosed.

(ii) All information obtained pursuant to the income and eligibility verification requirements at §§ 205.55 and 205.56 will be stored and processed so that no unauthorized personnel can acquire or retrieve the information by any means.

(iii) All persons with access to information obtained pursuant to the income and eligibility verification requirements under §§ 205.55 and 205.56 will be advised of the circumstances under which access is permitted and the sanctions imposed for illegal use or disclosure of the information.

(4) All materials sent or distributed to applicants, recipients, or medical vendors, including material enclosed in envelopes containing checks, will be limited to those which are directly related to the administration of the program and will not have political implications except to the extent required to implement the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (NVRA), Pub. L. 103-31. Under this requirement:

(i) Specifically excluded from mailing or distribution are materials such as "holiday" greetings, general public announcements, alien registration notices, and partisan voting information.

(ii) Not prohibited from such mailing or distribution are materials in the immediate interest of the health and welfare of applicants and recipients, such as announcements of free medical examinations, availability of surplus food, and consumer protection information;

(iii) Only the names of persons directly connected with the administration of the program are contained in material sent or distributed to applicants, recipients, and vendors, and such persons are identified only in their official capacity with the State or local agency.

(iv) Under NVRA, the agency must distribute voter information and registration materials as specified in NVRA.
