
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 205 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION - PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 205.55 Requirements for requesting and furnishing eligibility and income information.

A State plan under title I, IV-A, X, XIV, or XVI (AABD) of the Social Security Act must provide that:

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b), the State agency will request through the IEVS:

(1) Wage information from the SWICA for all applicants at the first opportunity following receipt of the application and for all recipients on a quarterly basis.

(2) Unemployment compensation information from the agency administering the State's unemployment compensation program under section 3304 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 and section 303 of the Act as follows:

(i) For applicants at the first opportunity following receipt of the application and in each of the first three months in which the individual is receiving aid, unless the individual is found to be receiving unemployment compensation, in which case the information will be requested until benefits are exhausted; and

(ii) In each of the first three months following any recipient-reported loss of employment, unless the individual is found to be receiving unemployment compensation, in which case the information will be requested until the benefits are exhausted.

(3) All available information maintained by the Social Security Administration for all applicants at the first opportunity following receipt of the application in the manner set forth by the Commissioner of Social Security. The State agency will also request such information for all recipients as of the effective date of this provision for whom such information has not previously been requested.

(4) Unearned income information from the Internal Revenue Service available under section 6103 (l)(7)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for all applicants at the first opportunity following receipt of the application for all recipients on a yearly basis. The request shall be made at the time and in the manner set forth by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.

(5) As necessary, any income or other information affecting eligibility available from agencies in the State or other States administering:

(i) An AFDC program (in another State) under title IV-A of the Social Security Act;

(ii) A Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act;

(iii) An unemployment compensation program (in another State) under section 3304 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954;

(iv) A Food Stamp program under the Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended;

(v) Any State program administered under plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI (AABD) of the Social Security Act; and

(vi) A SWICA (in another State).

(b)(1) With respect to individuals who cannot furnish an SSN at application, information specified in paragraph (a) will be requested at the first opportunity provided by each source after the State agency is provided with the SSN.

(2) For the purposes of this section, applicants and recipients shall also include any other individuals whose income or resources are considered in determining the amount of assistance, if the State agency has obtained the SSN of such individuals.

(c) The State agency must furnish, when requested, income, eligibility and benefit information to:

(1) Agencies in the State or other States administering the programs cited in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, in accordance with specific agreements as described in ยง 205.58;

(2) The agency in the State or other States administering a program under title IV-D of the Social Security Act; and

(3) The Social Security Administration for purposes of establishing or verifying eligibility or benefit amounts under title II and XVI (SSI) of the Social Security Act.

(d) The Secretary may, based upon application from a State, permit a State to obtain and use income and eligibility information from an alternate source or sources in order to meet any requirement of paragraph (a) of this section. The State agency must demonstrate to the Secretary that the alternate source or sources is as timely, complete and useful for verifying eligibility and benefit amounts. The Secretary will consult with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Labor prior to approval of a request. The State must continue to meet the requirements of this section unless the Secretary has approved the request.

(e) The State agency must, upon request, reimburse another agency for reasonable costs incurred in furnishing income and eligibility information as prescribed in this section, including new developmental costs associated with furnishing such information, in accordance with specific agreements as described in ยง 205.58.
