
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 206 - APPLICATION, DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY AND FURNISHING ASSISTANCE - PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 206.10 Application, determination of eligibility and furnishing of assistance.
###### Exception:

(B) Any blood-related or adoptive brother or sister;needs and income of disqualified alien siblings, pursuant to ยง 233.50(c), are not considered in determining the eligibility and payment of an otherwise eligible dependent child.

(2)(i) Applicants shall be informed about the eligibility requirements and their rights and obligations under the program. Under this requirement individuals are given information in written form, and orally as appropriate, about coverage, conditions of eligibility, scope of the program, and related services available, and the rights and responsibilities of applicants for and recipients of assistance. Specifically developed bulletins or pamphlets explaining the rules regarding eligibility and appeals in simple, understandable terms are publicized and available in quantity.

(ii) Procedures shall be adopted which are designed to assure that recipients make timely and accurate reports of any change in circumstances which may affect their eligibility or the amount of assistance.

(iii) All applicants for and recipients of assistance shall be notified in writing at the time of application and on redetermination that eligibility and income information will be regularly requested from agencies specified in ยง 205.55 and will be used to aid in determining their eligibility for assistance.

(3) A decision shall be made promptly on applications, pursuant to reasonable State-established time standards not in excess of:

(i) 45 days for OAA, AFDC, AB, AABD (for aged and blind); and

(ii) 60 days for APTD, AABD (for disabled). Under this requirement, the applicant is informed of the agency's time standard in acting on applications which covers the time from date of application under the State plan to the date that the assistance check, or notification of denial of assistance or change of award is mailed to the applicant or recipient. The State's time standards apply except in unusual circumstances (e.g., where the agency cannot reach a decision because of failure or delay on the part of the applicant or an examining physician, or because of some administrative or other emergency that could not be controlled by the agency), in which instances the case record shows the cause for the delay. The agency's standards of promptness for acting on applications or redetermining eligibility shall not be used as a waiting period before granting aid, or as a basis for denial of an application or for terminating assistance.

(4) Adequate notice shall be sent to applicants and recipients to indicate that assistance has been authorized (including the amount of financial assistance) or that it has been denied or terminated. Under this requirement, adequate notice means a written notice that contains a statement of the action taken, and the reasons for and specific regulations supporting such action, and an explanation of the individual's right to request a hearing.

(5)(i) Financial assistance and medical care and services included in the plan shall be furnished promptly to eligible individuals without any delay attributable to the agency's administrative process, and shall be continued regularly to all eligible individuals until they are found to be ineligible. Under this requirement there must be arrangements to assist applicants and recipients in obtaining medical care and services in emergency situations on a 24-hour basis, 7 days a week.

(ii) Assistance will not be denied, delayed, or discontinued pending receipt of income or other information requested under ยง 205.55, if other evidence establishes the individual's eligibility for assistance.

(6) Assistance shall begin as specified in the State plan, which:

(i) For financial assistance.

(A) Must be no later than:
