
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 213 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR HEARINGS TO STATES ON CONFORMITY OF PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PLANS TO FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Preliminary Matters - Notice and Parties
###### ยง 213.15 Request to participate in hearing.

(a) The Department and the State are parties to the hearing without making a specific request to participate.

(b)(1) Other individuals or groups may be recognized as parties, if the issues to be considered at the hearing have caused them injury and their interest is within the zone of interests to be protected by the governing Federal statute.

(2) Any individual or group wishing to participate as a party shall file a petition with the FSA Hearing Clerk within 15 days after notice of the hearing has been published in theand shall serve a copy on each party of record at that time, in accordance with ยง 213.5(b). Such petition shall concisely state (i) petitioner's interest in the proceeding, (ii) who will appear for petitioner, (iii) the issues on which petitioner wishes to participate, and (iv) whether petitioner intends to present witnesses.

(3) Any party may, within 5 days of receipt of such petition, file comments thereon.

(4) The presiding officer shall promptly determine whether each petitioner has the requisite interest in the proceedings and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. Where petitions to participate as parties are made by individuals or groups with common interests, the presiding officer may request all such petitioners to designate a single representative, or he may recognize one or more of such petitioners to represent all such petitioners. The presiding officer shall give each petitioner written notice of the decision on his petition, and if the petition is denied, he shall briefly state the grounds for denial.

(c)(1) Any interested person or organization wishing to participate as amicus curiae shall file a petition with the FSA Hearing Clerk before the commencement of the hearing. Such petition shall concisely state (i) the petitioner's interest in the hearing, (ii) who will represent the petitioner, and (iii) the issues on which petitioner intends to present argument. The presiding officer may grant the petition if he finds that the petitioner has a legitimate interest in the proceedings, that such participation will not unduly delay the outcome and may contribute materially to the proper disposition of the issues. An amicus curiae is not a party but may participate as provided in this paragraph.

(2) An amicus curiae may present a brief oral statement at the hearing, at the point in the proceedings specified by the presiding officer. He may submit a written statement of position to the presiding officer prior to the beginning of a hearing, and shall serve a copy on each party. He may also submit a brief or written statement at such time as the parties submit briefs, and shall serve a copy on each party.
