
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 213 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR HEARINGS TO STATES ON CONFORMITY OF PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PLANS TO FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart C - Hearing Procedures
###### ยง 213.22 Authority of presiding officer.

(a) The presiding officer shall have the duty to conduct a fair hearing, to avoid delay, maintain order, and make a record of the proceedings. He shall have all powers necessary to accomplish these ends, including, but not limited to, the power to:

(1) Change the date, time, and place of the hearing, upon due notice to the parties. This includes the power to continue the hearing in whole or in part. In hearings pursuant to section 1116(a)(2) of the Social Security Act (see ยง 201.4 of this chapter), changes of time are subject to the requirements of the statute.

(2) Hold conferences to settle or simplify the issues in a proceeding, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding.

(3) Regulate participation of parties and amici curiae and require parties and amici curiae to state their position with respect to the various issues in the proceeding.

(4) Administer oaths and affirmations.

(5) Rule on motions and other procedural items on matters pending before him including issuance of protective orders or other relief to a party against whom discovery is sought.

(6) Regulate the course of the hearing and conduct of counsel therein.

(7) Examine witnesses.

(8) Receive, rule on, exclude or limit evidence or discovery.

(9) Fix the time for filing motions, petitions, briefs, or other items in matters pending before him.

(10) If the presiding officer is the Administrator, make a final decision.

(11) If the presiding officer is a hearing examiner, certify the entire record including his recommended findings and proposed decision to the Administrator.

(12) Take any action authorized by the rules in this part or in conformance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551 through 559.

(b) The presiding officer does not have authority to compel by subpoena the production of witnesses, papers, or other evidence.

(c) If the presiding officer is a hearing examiner, his authority pertains to the issues of compliance by a State with Federal requirements which are to be considered at the hearing, and does not extend to the question of whether, in case of any noncompliance, Federal payments will not be made in respect to the entire State plan or will be limited to categories under or parts of the State plan affected by such noncompliance.
