
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 213 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR HEARINGS TO STATES ON CONFORMITY OF PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PLANS TO FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Posthearing Procedures, Decisions
###### ยง 213.32 Decisions following hearing.

(a) If the Administrator is the presiding officer, he shall, when the time for submission of posthearing briefs has expired, issue his decision within 60 days.

(b)(1) If a hearing examiner is the presiding officer, he shall, when the time for submission of posthearing briefs has expired, certify the entire record, including his recommended findings and proposed decision, to the Administrator. The Administrator shall serve a copy of the recommended findings and proposed decision upon all parties, and amici, if any.

(2) Any party may, within 20 days, file with the Administrator exceptions to the recommended findings and proposed decision and a supporting brief or statement.

(3) The Administrator shall thereupon review the recommended decision and, within 60 days of its issuance, issue his own decision.

(c) If the Administrator concludes that a State plan does not comply with Federal requirements, he shall also, in the case of a hearing pursuant to ยง 201.6(a) of this chapter, specify whether further payments will not be made to the State or whether, in the exercise of his discretion, payments will be limited to categories under or parts of the State plan not affected by such noncompliance. The Administrator may ask the parties for recommendations or briefs or may hold conferences of the parties on this question.

(d) The decision of the Administrator under this section shall be the final decision of the Secretary and shall constitute "final agency action" within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704 and a "final determination" within the meaning of section 1116(a)(3) of the Act and ยง 201.7 of this chapter. The Administrator's decision shall be promptly served on all parties, and amici, if any.
