
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 233.10 General provisions regarding coverage and eligibility.
###### State plan requirements.

(a)A State plan under title I, IV-A, X, XIV, or XVI, of the Social Security Act must:

(1) Specify the groups of individuals, based on reasonable classifications, that will be included in the program, and all the conditions of eligibility that must be met by the individuals in the groups. The groups selected for inclusion in the plan and the eligibility conditions imposed must not exclude individuals or groups on an arbitrary or unreasonable basis, and must not result in inequitable treatment of individuals or groups in the light of the provisions and purposes of the public assistance titles of the Social Security Act. Under this requirement:

(i) A State shall impose each condition of eligibility required by the Social Security Act; and

(ii) A State may:

(A) Provide more limited public assistance coverage than that provided by the Act only where the Social Security Act or its legislative history authorizes more limited coverage;

(B) Impose conditions upon applicants for and recipients of public assistance which, if not satisfied, result in the denial or termination of public assistance, if such conditions assist the State in the efficient administration of its public assistance programs, or further an independent State welfare policy, and are not inconsistent with the provisions and purposes of the Social Security Act.

(iii) There must be clarity as to what groups are included in the plan, and which are within, and which are outside, the scope of Federal financial participation.

(iv) Eligibility conditions must be applied on a consistent and equitable basis throughout the State.

(v) A plan under title XVI must have the same eligibility conditions and other requirements for the aged, blind, and disabled, except as otherwise specifically required or permitted by the Act.

(vi) Eligibility conditions or agency procedures or methods must not preclude the opportunity for an individual to apply and obtain a determination of eligibility or ineligibility.

(vii) Methods of determining eligibility must be consistent with the objective of assisting all eligible persons to qualify.

(2) Provide that the State agency will establish methods for identifying the expenditures for assistance for any groups included in the plan for whom Federal financial participation in assistance may not be claimed.

(3) In addition, a State plan under title IV-A, X, XIV, or XVI of the Act, must: Provided that no aid or assistance will be provided under the plan to an individual with respect to a period for which he is receiving aid or assistance under a State plan approved under any other of such titles or under title I of the Act.
