
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 233.10 General provisions regarding coverage and eligibility.
###### b

() The parent(s) of a dependent child, a caretaker relative (other than a parent) of a dependent child, and, in certain situations, a parent's spouse.

(iii) AB-for needy individual's under the plan who are blind.

(iv) APTD-for needy individuals under the plan who are 18 years of age or older and permanently and totally disabled.

(v) AABD-for needy individuals under the plan who are aged, blind, or 18 years of age or older and permanently and totally disabled.

(3) Federal financial participation is available in assistance payments made for the entire month in accordance with the State plan if the individual was eligible for a portion of the month, provided that the individual was eligible on the date that the payment was made; except that where it has been determined that the State agency had previously denied assistance to which the individual was entitled, Federal financial participation will be provided in any corrective payment regardless of whether the individual is eligible on the date that the corrective payment is made.

(4) Federal financial participation is available in assistance payments which are continued in accordance with the State plan, for a temporary period during which the effects of an eligibility condition are being overcome, e.g., blindness in AB, disability in APTD, physical or mental incapacity, continued absence of a parent, or unemployment of a principal earner in AFDC.

(5) Where changed circumstances or a hearing decision makes the individual ineligible for any assistance, or eligible for a smaller amount of assistance than was actually paid, Federal financial participation is available in excess payments to such individuals, for not more than one month following the month in which the circumstances changed or the hearing decision was rendered. Federal financial participation is available where assistance is required to be continued unadjusted because a hearing has been requested.
