
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 233.20 Need and amount of assistance.
###### Standards of assistance.,a,b

(2)(i) Specify a statewide standard, expressed in money amounts, to be used in determining () the need of applicants and recipients and () the amount of the assistance payment.

(ii) In the AFDC plan, provide that by July 1, 1969, the State's standard of assistance for the AFDC program will have been adjusted to reflect fully changes in living costs since such standards were established, and any maximums that the State imposes on the amount of aid paid to families will have been proportionately adjusted. In such adjustment a consolidation of the standard (i.e., combining of items) may not result in a reduction in the content of the standard. In the event the State is not able to meet need in full under the adjusted standard, the State may make ratable reductions in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(viii) of this section. Nevertheless, if a State maintains a system of dollar maximums these maximums must be proportionately adjusted in relation to the updated standards.

(iii) Provide that the standard will be uniformly applied throughout the State except as provided under ยง 239.54.

(iv) Include the method used in determining need and the amount of the assistance payment. For AFDC, the method must provide for rounding down to the next lower whole dollar when the result of determining the standard of need or the payment amount is not a whole dollar. Proration under ยง 206.10(a)(6)(i)(D) to determine the amount of payment for the month of application must occur before rounding to determine the payment amount for that month.

(v) If the State IV-A agency includes special need items in its standard:

(A) Describe those that will be recognized and the circumstances under which they will be included, and

(B) Provide that they will be considered for all applicants and recipients requiring them; except that:
