
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### § 233.20 Need and amount of assistance.
###### Disregard of income and resources applicable only to AFDC.

(11)(i) For purposes of eligibility determination, the State must disregard from the monthly earned income, i.e., earned income as defined in § 233.20(a)(6)(iii), of each individual whose needs are included in the eligibility determination:

(A) Disregard all of the monthly earned income of each child receiving AFDC if the child is a full-time student or is a part-time student who is not a full-time employee. A student is one who is attending a school, college, or university or a course of vocational or technical training designed to fit him or her for gainful employment and includes a participant in the Job Corps program under the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA).

(B) The first $90.

(C) Where appropriate, an amount equal to $30 plus one-third of the earned income not already disregarded under paragraphs (a)(11)(i), (a)(11)(v) and (a)(11)(vi) of this section of an individual who received assistance in one of the four prior months.

(D) An amount equal to the actual cost for the care of each dependent child or incapacitated adult living in the same home and receiving AFDC, but not to exceed $175 for each dependent child who is at least age two or each incapacitated adult, and not to exceed $200 for each dependent child who is under age two. For individuals not engaged in full-time employment or not employed throughout the month, the $175 and $200 disregard limits may be applied, or the State agency may establish disregard limits less than $175 and $200.

(E) Where appropriate, $30 of the earned income not already disregarded under paragraphs (a)(11) (i), (v), and (vi) of this section, in the case of an individual who reapplies for assistance within the eight-month period that he/she is eligible for the $30 disregard.

(ii) For purposes of benefit calculation for individuals found eligible under paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section, the following disregards must be made by the State:

(A) Disregard all of the monthly earned income of each child receiving AFDC if the child is a full-time student or is a part-time student who is not a full-time employee. A student is one who is attending a school, college, or university or a course of vocational or technical training designed to fit him or her for gainful employment and includes a participant in the Job Corps program under the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA).

(B) Disregard from any other individual's earned income the amounts specified in paragraphs (a)(11)(i)(B) and (a)(11)(i)(D) of this section, and $30 plus one-third of the individual's earned income not already disregarded under paragraphs (a)(11)(ii) and (a)(11)(v) of this section. However, the State may not provide the one-third portion of the disregard to an individual after the fourth consecutive month (any month for which the unit loses the $30 plus one-third disregard because of a provision in paragraph (a)(11)(iii) of this section, shall be considered as one of these months) it has been applied to the individual's earned income and may not apply the $30 disregard after the eighth month following the fourth consecutive month (regardless of whether the $30 disregard was actually applied in those months) unless twelve consecutive months have passed during which the individual is not a recipient of AFDC. If income from a recurring source resulted in suspension or termination due to an extra paycheck, the month of ineligibility does not interrupt the accumulation of consecutive months of the $30 plus one-third disregard, nor does it count as one of the consecutive months.

(iii) The applicable earned income disregards in paragraphs (i) (B) and (C) and (ii)(B) of this paragraph do not apply to the earned income of the individual for the month in which one of the following conditions apply to him:

(A) An individual terminated his employment or reduced his earned income without good cause (as specified in the State plan) within the period of 30 days preceding such month;

(B) An individual refused without good cause (as specified in the State plan) within the period of 30 days preceding such month to accept employment in which he is able to engage which is offered through the public employment offices of the State, or is otherwise offered by an employer if the offer of such employer is determined by the State or local agency administering the State plan, after notification by him, to be a bona fide offer of employment;

(C) An individual failed without good cause (as specified in the State plan) to make a timely report (as defined in § 233.37(c)) of that income; or

(D) The individual voluntarily requests assistance to be terminated for the primary purpose of avoiding receiving the $30 and one-third disregard for four consecutive months.

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The treatment of earned income and expenses under JOBS is as follows:

(A) For earned income from regular employment or on-the-job training, as described at § 250.61, the disregards in paragraphs (a)(11)(i) and (a)(11)(ii)(B) shall apply.

(B) For earned income from a job under the work supplementation component, as described at § 250.62, the disregards in paragraphs (a)(11)(i) and (a)(11)(ii)(B) shall apply unless the State IV-A agency in its State JOBS plan, has elected to provide otherwise under § 250.62(j) and § 250.62(k).

(C) For all activities under JOBS and self-initiated education and training in non-JOBS areas, advance payment or reimbursement to the individual for child care, transportation, work-related expenses, or work-related supportive services is disregarded.

(D) Payment or reimbursement of child care pursuant to part 255 for employed individuals who are not JOBS participants and one-time work-related expenses for individuals who are not JOBS participants pursuant to part 255 are disregarded.

(vi) At State option, disregard all or part of the monthly income of any dependent child applying for or receiving AFDC when the income is derived from a program carried out under the Job Training Partnership Act of 1982, except that in respect to earned income such disregard may not exceed six months per calendar year.

(vii) At State option, disregard all or part of the monthly earned income of any dependent child applying for AFDC, if the child is a full-time student, and that income has been disregarded for purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(xiii) of this section.

(viii) Disregard as income the amount of any earned income tax credit payments received by an applicant or recipient. Disregard as resources, in the month of receipt and the following month, the amount of any earned income tax credit payments received by an applicant or recipient. "Earned income tax credit payments" include: Any advance earned income tax credit payment made to a family by an employer and any earned income tax credit payment made as a refund of Federal income taxes.
