
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 233.20 Need and amount of assistance.
###### 1,2,3

() Recover the overpayment, () initiate action to locate and/or recover the overpayment from a former recipient, or () execute a monthly recovery agreement from a current recipient's grant or income/resources.

(ii) Specify uniform Statewide policies for prompt correction of any underpayments to current recipients and those who would be a current recipient if the error causing the underpayment had not occurred. Underpayment means a financial assistance payment received by or for an assistance unit for the payment month which is less than the amount for which the assistance unit was eligible, or failure by the State to issue a financial assistance payment for the payment month to an eligible assistance unit if such payment should have been issued. Under this requirement, for purposes of determining continued eligibility and amount of assistance, such retroactive corrective payments shall not be considered as income, or as a resource in the month paid nor in the next following month.

(iii) Paragraph (a)(13) of this section is effective for incorrect payments which are identified subsequent to September 30, 1981.

(iv) In locating former recipients who have outstanding overpayments the State should use appropriate data sources such as State unemployment insurance files, State Department of Revenue information from tax returns, State automobile registration, Bendex, and other files relating to current or former recipients.

(v) The State must maintain information on the individual and total number and amount of overpayments identified and their disposition for current and former recipients.

(vi) The State may elect not to attempt recovery of an overpayment from an individual no longer receiving aid where the overpayment amount is less than $35. Where the overpayment amount owed by an individual no longer receiving aid is $35 or more, the State can determine when it is no longer cost-effective to continue overpayment recovery efforts, provided it has made reasonable efforts to recover the overpayment from the individual. Reasonable efforts must include notification of the amount of and reason for the overpayment and that repayment is required. States must also maintain information regarding uncollected overpayments as provided under paragraph (a)(13)(v) of this section, to enable the State to recover those overpayments if the individual subsequently becomes a recipient. In cases involving fraud, States must make every effort to recover the overpayment, regardless of the amount.

(14) For Medicaid eligibility only, beginning October 1, 1998, pursuant to section 402(a)(37) of the Act, an assistance unit will be deemed to be receiving AFDC, but only for the purposes of this paragraph, for a period of nine months after the last month the family actually received aid if the loss of AFDC eligibility was solely because a member of the unit was no longer eligible due to the 4 and 12 month time limitations to have the $30 and one-third or the $30 disregard in paragraph (a)(11)(ii)(B) applied to his or her earned income. At State option, an additional period of Medicaid coverage for up to six months may be provided when the assistance unit would be eligible during such additional period to receive AFDC if the $30 and one-third or the $30 disregards were applied to the assistance unit's earned income.

(15) For Medicaid eligibility only, pursuant to section 406(h) of the Act:

(i) Each dependent child and each relative with whom such a child is living (including the eligible spouse of such relative pursuant to section 237.50(b) of this chapter) who becomes ineligible for AFDC wholly or partly because of the initiation of or an increase in the amount of a child or spousal support collection under title IV-D will be deemed to be receiving AFDC, but only for purposes of this paragraph (a)(15), for a period of four consecutive calendar months beginning with the first month of AFDC ineligibility. To be eligible for extended Medicaid coverage pursuant to this paragraph (a)(15), each dependent child and relative must meet the following conditions:

(A) The individual must have become ineligible for AFDC on or after August 16, 1984; and

(B) The individual must have received AFDC in at least three of the six months immediately preceding the month in which the individual becomes ineligible for AFDC; and

(C) The individual must have become ineligible for AFDC wholly or partly as a result of the initiation of or an increase in the amount of a child or spousal support collection under title IV-D.

(ii)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(15)(ii)(B) of this section, individuals who are eligible for extended Medicaid lose this coverage if they move to another State during the 4-month period. However, if they move back to and reestablish residence in the State in which they have extended coverage, they are eligible for any of the months remaining in the 4-month period in which they are residents of the State.

(B) If a State has chosen in its State plan to provide Medicaid to non-residents, the State may continue to provide the 4-month extended benefits to individuals who have moved to another State.

(iii) For purposes of paragraph (i) of this section:

(A) The new collection or increased collection of child or spousal support results in the termination of AFDC eligibility when it actively causes or contributes to the termination. This occurs when:
