
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### § 233.20 Need and amount of assistance.
###### Federal financial participation; General.

(b)(1) Federal participation will be available in financial assistance payments made on the basis that (after application of policies governing the allowable reserve, disregard or setting aside of income and resources), all income of the needy individual, together with the assistance payment, do not exceed the State's defined standard of assistance, and available resources of the needy individuals do not exceed the limits under the State plan.

(2) Federal participation is available within the maximums specified in the Federal law, when the payments do not exceed the amount determined to be needed under the statewide standard, and are made in accordance with the State method for determining the amount of the payments, as specified in § 233.31 for AFDC and in §§ 233.24 and 233.25 for OAA, AB, APTD, and AABD.

(3) Federal participation is available in financial assistance payments made on the basis of the need of the individual. This basis may include consideration of needy persons living in the same home with the recipient when such other persons are within the State's policy as essential to his well-being. Persons living in the home who are "essential to the well-being of the recipient," as specified in the State plan, will govern as the basis for Federal participation (see Guides and Recommendations). When the State includes persons living outside the home or persons not in need, Federal participation is not available for that portion of financial assistance payments attributable to such persons, and the State's claims must, therefore, identify the amounts of any such nonmatchable payments.

(4) For all assistance programs except AFDC, Federal participation is available for supplemental payments in the retrospective budgeting system.
