
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 233.26 Retrospective budgeting; determining eligibility after the initial one or two months.

(a) Under retrospective budgeting, there are three options for determining eligibility. The State plan shall specify that eligibility, following the initial one or two months under ยง 233.24, shall be determined by one of the following methods:

(1) A State may consider all factors, including income retrospectively, i.e., only from the budget month. For example, if a change in circumstances occurs which affects eligibility, e.g., deprivation ceases, the change may be reported at the end of the budget month and assistance shall be terminated for the corresponding payment month. Thus, even if the agency could have terminated assistance earlier than the corresponding payment month, it shall not do so under retrospective determination of eligibility.

(2) A State may consider all factors, including income, prospectively. For example, if deprivation ceases, and the family becomes ineligible, the agency shall immediately take steps to terminate assistance.

(3) A State may use a combination of the options in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section by considering factors related to earned and unearned income retrospectively and all other factors prospectively. For example, if a change in income makes the family ineligible, the agency shall wait until the corresponding payment month to terminate assistance. On the other hand, if a change of circumstances other than income makes the family ineligible, the agency shall immediately take steps to terminate assistance.
