
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 233.29 How monthly reports are treated and what notices are required.
###### What happens if the completed monthly report is received before the extension deadline.

(b)(1) If the completed monthly report is not received by the date specified in ยง 233.28, the agency shall send a notice to the recipient. This notice shall inform him or her that the monthly report is overdue or is not complete and that he or she has at least 10 additional days to file. It must inform the recipient that termination may result if that is the agency's policy, if the report is not filed within the extension period. This notice must reach the recipient at least 10 days before the expected payment. However, in States in which the date specified in ยง 233.28 is within 10 days of the expected payment date, the notice must reach the recipient on or before the expected payment date.

(2) When the report is received within the extension period, the agency may delay payment to the recipient, as follows:

(i) In a State that pays within 25 days of the budget month the payment may be delayed 10 days;

(ii) In a State that pays within 25 to 45 days of the budget month, the payment may not be delayed beyond the 45th day.
