
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 233.37 How monthly reports are treated and what notices are required (AFDC).
###### What happens if a completed monthly report is received but is not timely.

(c)States must specify in their plans a definition of timeliness related to the filing of a monthly report and the number of days an individual has to report changes in earnings which impact eligibility. States must inform recipients what constitutes timeliness and that no disregard of earnings as described in ยง 233.20(a)(11) (i) and (ii)(B) ($30 and one-third, child care, and work expenses) will be applied to any earnings which are not reported in a timely manner without good cause. The State must provide recipients an opportunity to show good cause for not filing a timely report of earnings. If the State finds good cause, then applicable earned income disregards will be applied in determining payment. If the State does not find good cause, then applicable earned income disregards will not be applied. If the recipient is found ineligible or eligible for an amount less than the prior month's payment, the State must promptly notify the recipient of his or her right to a fair hearing and his or her right to have assistance reinstated. A recipient has 10 days from the date of the notice to request a hearing in order to receive reinstatement.
