
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 233.90 Factors specific to AFDC.
###### Conditions for plan approval.

(b)(1) A child may not be denied AFDC either initially or subsequently "because of the conditions of the home in which the child resides", or because the home is considered "unsuitable", unless "provision is otherwise made pursuant to a State statute for adequate care and assistance with respect to such child". (Section 404(b) of the Social Security Act.)

(2) An otherwise eligible child who is under the age of 18 years may not be denied AFDC, regardless of whether she attends school (unless she is required to participate in the JOBS program pursuant to ยง 250.30 and she is assigned to educational activities) or makes satisfactory grades.

(3) A state may elect to include in its AFDC program children age 18 who are full-time students in a secondary school, or in the equivalent level of vocational or technical training, and who may reasonably be expected to complete the program before reaching age 19.

(4)(i) A child may not be denied AFDC either initially or subsequently because a parent or other caretaker relative fails to cooperate with the child support agency in performing any of the activities needed to:

(A) Establish the paternity of a child born out of wedlock; or

(B) Obtain support from a person having a legal duty to support the child.

(ii) Any parent or caretaker relative who fails to so cooperate shall be treated in accordance with ยง 232.12 of this chapter.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) An otherwise eligible child may not be denied AFDC if a parent is mentally or physically incapacitated as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section.
