
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### § 233.101 Dependent children of unemployed parents.
###### State Plan Options.

(b)A State plan under title IV-A may:

(1) Require the principal earner or both parents to participate in an activity in the JOBS program under part 250 of this chapter, subject to the limitations and conditions of part 250 of this chapter, provided that the participation of each parent in all required activities under the JOBS program does not exceed 40 hours per week, per parent.

(2) Provide cash assistance after the performance of assigned program activities by parents required to participate in an activity in the JOBS program under part 250 of this chapter (as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) so long as the State:

(i) Makes assistance payments at regular intervals at least monthly,

(ii) Prescribes a set of criteria which defines goals or standards for each assigned activity in the JOBS program which must be completed by the participant prior to payment, and

(iii) Prior to, or concurrent with, assignment to an activity, notifies the participant of the prescribed goals or standards and that payment for a period will be withheld unless performance of each assigned activity for that period is completed.

(3) Provide for a State to operate a payment after performance system under which a family is issued an assistance payment after the applicable family member has successfully completed her obligation to participate in JOBS for a specific period. If the applicable family member fails without good cause to satisfy the obligation, the State may:

(i) Impose a sanction in accordance with the JOBS program rules at §§ 250.34, 250.35 and 250.36 of this chapter;

(ii) Reduce the family's assistance payment to which the specific period applies by the amount of the payment attributable to the family member for that period or do not make the payment to the family; or

(iii) Reduce the family's assistance payment to which the specific period applies (or the amount of the payment attributable to the family member for that period) in proportion to the number of required hours that were not completed.

(4) Limit the number of months that a family may receive AFDC-UP under this section when the following conditions are met:

(i) The State did not have on September 26, 1988, an approved AFDC-UP program under section 407 of the Social Security Act.

(ii) The family received such aid (on the basis of the unemployment of the parent who is the principal earner) in at least 6 of the preceding 12 months.

(iii) The State has in effect a program (described in the plan) for providing education, training, and employment services to assist parents in preparing for and obtaining employment throughout the year. Such a program may include education, training and employment activities under the JOBS program which are provided in part 250 of this chapter or under a State-designed program which provides:

(A) Education and instruction for individuals who have not graduated from a secondary school or obtained an equivalent degree,

(B) Training whereby an individual acquires market-oriented skills necessary for self-support, and

(C) Employment services which seek to place individuals in jobs.

(iv) The State must guarantee child care necessary for an individual to participate in an approved, State-designed, non-JOBS program. The regulations at part 255 of this chapter apply to such care.

(v) The State has the option of providing necessary supportive services associated with an individual's participation in a State-designed, non-JOBS program. Federal financial participation is available under sections 403 (k) and (l) of the Social Security Act. The regulations at part 255 of this chapter apply to such supportive services.

(vi) The State must inform an AFDC-UP family at the time of application that AFDC-UP cash assistance will terminate due to a time limitation, that any family with a child who is (or becomes) deprived due to the death, continued absence, or incapacity of a parent may receive cash assistance under the AFDC program during the time limitation for AFDC-UP, and that a program of training, education, and employment services is available to prepare the family to become self-supporting.

(vii) Prior to termination due to a time limitation, the State must notify an AFDC-UP recipient family of the earliest month that it may receive AFDC-UP cash assistance again. This notification may be included in the notice of proposed action which is required pursuant to § 205.10(a)(4) of this chapter. To receive assistance again, the family must make a new application.

(viii) In establishing eligibility upon re-application following months of nonpayment due to the time limitation, an otherwise eligible family that does not receive aid in a month solely by reason of the option to limit assistance under this paragraph shall be deemed, for purposes of determining the period under paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, to be receiving AFDC-UP cash assistance in that month. This provision also applies if, at the time of the family's original application for assistance, eligibility was established based on the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, but eligibility could have been established based on the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section.
