
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 233 - COVERAGE AND CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY IN FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 233.145 Expiration of medical assistance programs under titles I, IV-A, X, XIV and XVI of the Social Security Act.

(a) Under the provisions of section 121(b) of Pub. L. 89-97, enacted July 30, 1965, no payment may be made to any State under title I, IV-A, X, XIV or XVI of the Social Security Act for aid or assistance in the form of medical or any other type of remedial care for any period after December 31, 1969. However, these provisions do not affect the availability of Federal financial participation in the cost of medical or remedial care furnished under title IV-A of the Act (pursuant to sections 403(a)(5) and 406(e)) of the Act, as emergency assistance to needy families with children (see ยง 233.120 of this part), subject to the provisions of paragraph (c)of this section. Federal financial participation in vendor payments for medical care and services is not otherwise available except under title XIX of the Act.

(b) Under the provisions of section 4(c) of Pub. L. 92-223, enacted December 28, 1971, and the provisions of section 292 of Pub. L. 92-603, enacted October 30, 1972:

(1) In the case of any State which on January 1, 1972, had in effect a State plan approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act, section 1121 of the Act authorizing payments under title I, X, XIV, or XVI of the Act for assistance in the form of institutional services in intermediate care facilities is rescinded; and

(2) In the case of any State which on January 1, 1972, did not have in effect a State plan approved under title XIX of the Act, Federal financial participation is available in assistance in the form of institutional services in intermediate care facilities pursuant to section 1121 of the Act and under the provisions of ยง 234.130 of this chapter until the first day of the first month after January 1, 1972, that the State has in effect a State plan approved under title XIX.

(c)(1) Under the provisions of section 249D of Pub. L. 92-603, enacted October 30, 1972, Federal matching is not available for any portion of any payment by any State under titles I, IV-A, X, XIV, or XVI of the Social Security Act for or on account of any medical or any other type of remedial care provided by an institution to any individual as an inpatient thereof, in the case of any State which has a plan approved under title XIX of such Act, if such care is (or could be provided, under a State plan approved under title XIX of such Act, by an institution certified under such title XIX. The effective date of this proposed provision will be the date of publication of the final regulation in the

(2) For purposes of this paragraph,

(i) An institution (see ยง 233.60(b)(1) of this chapter) is considered to provide medical or remedial care if it provides any care or service beyond room and board because of the physical or mental condition (or both) of its inpatients;

(ii) An inpatient is an individual who is living in an institution which provides medical or remedial care and who is receiving care or service beyond room and board because of his physical or mental condition (or both).

(iii) Federal financial participation is not available for any portion of the payment for care of an inpatient. It is immaterial whether such payment is made as a vendor payment or as a money payment or other cash assistance payment. It is also immaterial whether the payment is divided into components, such as separate amounts or payments for room and board, and for care or services beyond room and board, or whether the payment is considered to meet "basic" needs or "special" needs. If, however, a money payment (or protective payment) is made to an individual who is living in an institution, and such payment does not exceed a reasonable rate for room, board and laundry for individuals not living in their own homes, and no additional payment is made for such individual's care in the institution, Federal financial participation is available in the money payment (or protective payment) since the individual may spend the funds at his discretion and obtain room and board at the place of his choice.

(iv) Federal financial participation is available in cash assistance payments to meet the needs of an inpatient for specific medical services, such as dental care or prescription drugs, which generally are not delivered in an institutional setting and in fact are not provided by the institution to the inpatient, provided that such services are not available to the individual under the State's approved title XIX plan.
