
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 60 - NATIONAL PRACTITIONER DATA BANK
##### Subpart C - Disclosure of Information by the National Practitioner Data Bank
###### ยง 60.21 How to dispute the accuracy of National Practitioner Data Bank information.
####### Procedures for disputing a report with the reporting entity.

(b)(1) If the subject disagrees with the reported information, the subject must request in the format as determined by the Secretary that the NPDB enter the report into "disputed status."

(2) The NPDB will send the report, with a notation that the report has been placed in "disputed status," to queriers (where identifiable), the reporting entity and the subject of the report.

(3) The subject must attempt to enter into discussion with the reporting entity to resolve the dispute. If the reporting entity revises the information originally submitted to the NPDB, the NPDB will notify the subject and all entities to whom reports have been sent that the original information has been revised. If the reporting entity does not revise the reported information, or does not respond to the subject within 60 days, the subject may request that the Secretary review the report for accuracy. The Secretary will decide whether to correct the report within 30 days of the request. This time frame may be extended for good cause. The subject also may provide a statement to the NPDB, either directly or through a designated representative that will permanently append the report.
