
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 260 - GENERAL TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES (TANF) PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - What Rules Generally Apply to the TANF Program?
###### ยง 260.33 When are expenditures on State or local tax credits allowable expenditures for TANF-related purposes?

(a) To be an allowable expenditure for TANF-related purposes, any tax credit program must be reasonably calculated to accomplish one of the purposes of the TANF program, as specified at ยง 260.20.

(b)(1) In addition, pursuant to the definition of expenditure at ยง 260.30, we would only consider the refundable portion of a State or local tax credit to be an allowable expenditure.

(2) Under a State Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) program, the refundable portion that may count as an expenditure is the amount that exceeds a family's State income tax liability prior to application of the EITC. (The family's tax liability is the amount owed prior to any adjustments for credits or payments.) In other words, we would count only the portion of a State EITC that the State refunds to a family and that is above the amount of EITC used as credit towards the family's State income tax liability.

(3) For other refundable (and allowable) State and local tax credits, such as refundable dependent care credits, the refundable portion that would count as an expenditure is the amount of the credit that exceeds the taxpayer's tax liability prior to the application of the credit. (The taxpayer's liability is the amount owed prior to any adjustments for credits or payments.) In other words, we would count only the portion of the credit that the State refunds to the taxpayer and that is above the amount of the credit applied against the taxpayer's tax bill.
