
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 60 - NATIONAL PRACTITIONER DATA BANK
##### Subpart C - Disclosure of Information by the National Practitioner Data Bank
###### ยง 60.21 How to dispute the accuracy of National Practitioner Data Bank information.
####### Procedures for requesting a review of a disputed report.

(c)(1) The subject must request, in the format as determined by the Secretary, that the Secretary review the report for accuracy. The subject must return this request to the NPDB along with appropriate materials that support the subject's position. The Secretary will only review the accuracy of the reported information, and will not consider the merits or appropriateness of the action or the due process that the subject received.

(2) After the review, if the Secretary:

(i) Concludes that the information is accurate and reportable to the NPDB, the Secretary will inform the subject and the NPDB of the determination. The Secretary will include a brief statement (Secretarial Statement) in the report that describes the basis for the decision. The report will be removed from "disputed status." The NPDB will distribute the corrected report and statement(s) to previous queriers (where identifiable), the reporting entity and the subject of the report.

(ii) Concludes that the information contained in the report is inaccurate, the Secretary will inform the subject of the determination and direct the NPDB or the reporting entity to revise the report. The Secretary will include a brief statement (Secretarial Statement) in the report describing the findings. The NPDB will distribute the corrected report and statement(s) to previous queriers (where identifiable), the reporting entity and the subject of the report.

(iii) Determines that the disputed issues are outside the scope of the Department's review, the Secretary will inform the subject and the NPDB of the determination. The Secretary will include a brief statement (Secretarial Statement) in the report describing the findings. The report will be removed from "disputed status." The NPDB will distribute the report and the statement(s) to previous queriers (where identifiable), the reporting entity and the subject of the report.

(iv) Determines that the adverse action was not reportable and therefore should be removed from the NPDB, the Secretary will inform the subject and direct the NPDB to void the report. The NPDB will distribute a notice to previous queriers (where identifiable), the reporting entity and the subject of the report that the report has been voided.
