
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 260 - GENERAL TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES (TANF) PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - What Special Provisions Apply to Victims of Domestic Violence?
###### § 260.58 What penalty relief is available to a State whose failure to meet the work participation rates is attributable to providing federally recognized good cause domestic violence waivers?

(a)(1) We will determine that a State has reasonable cause if its failure to meet the work participation rates was attributable to federally recognized good cause domestic violence waivers granted to victims of domestic violence.

(2) To receive reasonable cause under the provisions of § 262.5(b) of this chapter, the State must provide evidence that it achieved the applicable rates, except with respect to any individuals who received a federally recognized good cause domestic violence waiver of work participation requirements. In other words, it must demonstrate that it met the applicable rates when such waiver cases are removed from the calculations at §§ 261.22(b) and 261.24(b) of this chapter.

(b)(1) We will reduce a State's penalty based on the degree of noncompliance to the extent that its failure to meet the work participation rates was attributable to federally recognized good cause domestic violence waivers.

(2) To receive a reduction based on degree of noncompliance under the provisions of § 261.51 of this chapter, a State granting federally recognized good cause domestic violence waivers of work participation requirements must demonstrate that it achieved participation rates above the threshold at § 261.51(b)(3) of this chapter, when such waiver cases are removed from the calculations at §§ 261.22(b) and 261.24(b) of this chapter.

(c) We may take federally recognized good cause domestic violence waivers of work requirements into consideration in deciding whether a State has achieved compliance or made significant progress towards achieving compliance in meeting the work participation rates during a corrective compliance period.

(d) To receive the penalty relief specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the State must submit the information specified at § 265.9(b)(5) of this chapter.
