
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 261 - ENSURING THAT RECIPIENTS WORK
##### Subpart C - What Are the Work Activities and How Do They Count?
###### ยง 261.32 How many hours must work-eligible individuals participate for the family to count in the numerator of the two-parent rate?

(a) Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, a family with two work-eligible parents counts as engaged in work for the month for the two-parent rate if:

(1) Work-eligible parents in the family are participating in work activities for a combined average of at least 35 hours per week during the month, and

(2) At least 30 of the 35 hours per week come from participation in the activities listed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The following nine activities count for the first 30 hours of participation: unsubsidized employment; subsidized private-sector employment; subsidized public-sector employment; work experience; on-the-job training; job search and job readiness assistance; community service programs; vocational educational training; and providing child care services to an individual who is participating in a community service program.

(c) Above 30 hours per week, the following three activities may also count for participation: job skills training directly related to employment; education directly related to employment; and satisfactory attendance at secondary school or in a course of study leading to a certificate of general equivalence.

(d)(1) We will deem a family with two work-eligible parents in which one or both participates in a work experience or community service program for the maximum number of hours per month that a State may require by dividing the combined monthly TANF or SSP-MOE grant and food stamp allotment by the higher of the Federal or State minimum wage to have participated for an average of 30 hours per week for the month in that activity.

(2) This policy is limited to States that have adopted a Simplified Food Stamp Program option that permits a State to count the value of food stamps in determining the maximum core hours of participation permitted by the FLSA.

(3) In order for Puerto Rico, which does not have a traditional Food Stamp Program, to deem core hours, it must include the value of food assistance benefits provided through the Nutrition Assistance Program in the same manner as a State must include food stamp benefits under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(e)(1) Subject to paragraph (f) of this section, if the family receives federally funded child care assistance and an adult in the family does not have a disability or is not caring for a child with a disability, then the work-eligible individuals must be participating in work activities for an average of at least 55 hours per week to count as a two-parent family engaged in work for the month.

(2) At least 50 of the 55 hours per week must come from participation in the activities listed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) Above 50 hours per week, the three activities listed in paragraph (c) of this section may also count as participation.

(f)(1) We will deem a family with two work-eligible parents in which one or both participates in a work experience or community service program for the maximum number of hours per month that a State may require by dividing the combined monthly TANF or SSP-MOE grant and food stamp allotment by the higher of the Federal or State minimum wage to have participated for an average of 50 hours per week for the month in that activity.

(2) This policy is limited to States that have adopted a Simplified Food Stamp Program option that permits a State to count the value of food stamps in determining the maximum core hours of participation permitted by the FLSA.

(3) In order for Puerto Rico, which does not have a traditional Food Stamp Program, to deem core hours, it must include the value of food assistance benefits provided through the Nutrition Assistance Program in the same manner as a State must include food stamp benefits under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
