
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 261 - ENSURING THAT RECIPIENTS WORK
##### Subpart D - How Will We Determine Caseload Reduction Credit for Minimum Participation Rates?
###### ยง 261.43 What is the definition of a "case receiving assistance" in calculating the caseload reduction credit?

(a) The caseload reduction credit is based on decreases in caseloads receiving TANF- or SSP-MOE-funded assistance (other than those excluded pursuant to ยง 261.42).

(b)(1) A State that is investing State MOE funds in excess of the required 80 percent or 75 percent basic MOE amount need only include the pro rata share of caseloads receiving assistance that is required to meet basic MOE requirements.

(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a State may exclude from the overall caseload reduction credit calculation the number of cases funded with excess MOE. This number is calculated by dividing annual excess MOE expenditures on assistance by the average monthly expenditures on assistance per case for the fiscal year,

(i) Where annual excess MOE expenditures on assistance equal total annual MOE expenditures minus the percentage of historic State expenditures specified in paragraph (v) of this section, multiplied by the percentage that annual expenditures on assistance (both Federal and State) represent of all annual expenditures, and

(ii) Where the average monthly assistance expenditures per case for the fiscal year equal the sum of annual TANF and SSP-MOE assistance expenditures (both Federal and State) divided by the average monthly sum of TANF and SSP-MOE caseloads for the fiscal year.

(iii) If the excess MOE calculation is for a separate two-parent caseload reduction credit, we multiply the number of cases funded with excess MOE by the average monthly percentage of two-parent cases in the State's total (TANF plus SSP-MOE) average monthly caseload.

(iv) All financial data must agree with data reported on the TANF Financial Report (form ACF-196) and all caseload data must agree with data reported on the TANF Data and SSP-MOE Data Reports (forms ACF-199 and ACF-209).

(v) The State must use 80 percent of historic expenditures when calculating excess MOE; however if it has met the work participation requirements for the year, it may use 75 percent of historic expenditures.
