
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 262 - ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS - GENERAL
##### § 262.6 What happens if a State does not demonstrate reasonable cause?

(a) A State may accept the penalty or enter into a corrective compliance plan that will correct or discontinue the violation in order to avoid the penalty if:

(1) A State does not claim reasonable cause; or

(2) We find that the State does not have reasonable cause.

(b) A State that does not claim reasonable cause will have 60 days from receipt of our notice described in § 262.4(a) to submit its corrective compliance plan.

(c) A State that unsuccessfully claimed reasonable cause will have 60 days from the date that it received our second notice, described in § 262.4(f), to submit its corrective compliance plan.

(d) The corrective compliance plan must include:

(1) A complete analysis of why the State did not meet the requirements;

(2) A detailed description of how the State will correct or discontinue, as appropriate, the violation in a timely manner;

(3) The time period in which the violation will be corrected or discontinued;

(4) The milestones, including interim process and outcome goals, that the State will achieve to assure it comes into compliance within the specified time period; and

(5) A certification by the Governor that the State is committed to correcting or discontinuing the violation, in accordance with the plan.

(e) The corrective compliance plan must correct or discontinue the violation within the following time frames:

(1) For a penalty under § 262.1(a)(4), (a)(9), or (a)(15), by the end of the first fiscal year ending at least six months after our receipt of the corrective compliance plan; and

(2) For the remaining penalties, by a date the State proposes that reflects the minimum period necessary to achieve compliance.

(f) During the 60-day period following our receipt of the State's corrective compliance plan, we may request additional information and consult with the State on modifications to the plan including in the case of a penalty under § 262.1(a)(15), modifications to the State's work verification procedures and Work Verification Plan.

(g) We will accept or reject the State's corrective compliance plan, in writing, within 60 days of our receipt of the plan, although a corrective compliance plan is deemed to be accepted if we take no action during the 60-day period following our receipt of the plan.

(h) If a State does not submit an acceptable corrective compliance plan on time, we will assess the penalty immediately.

(i) We will not impose a penalty against a State with respect to any violation covered by a corrective compliance plan that we accept if the State completely corrects or discontinues, as appropriate, the violation within the period covered by the plan.

(j) Under limited circumstances, we may reduce the penalty if the State fails to completely correct or discontinue the violation pursuant to its corrective compliance plan and in a timely manner. To receive a reduced penalty, the State must demonstrate that it met one or both of the following conditions:

(1) Although it did not achieve full compliance, the State made significant progress towards correcting or discontinuing the violation; or

(2) The State's failure to comply fully was attributable to either a natural disaster or regional recession.
