
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 262 - ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS - GENERAL
##### § 262.7 How can a State appeal our decision to take a penalty?

(a)(1) We will formally notify the Governor and the State agency of an adverse action (i.e., the reduction in the SFAG) within five days after we determine that a State is subject to a penalty under parts 261 through 265 of this chapter.

(2) Such notice will include the factual and legal basis for taking the penalty in sufficient detail for the State to be able to respond in an appeal.

(b)(1) The State may file an appeal of the action, in whole or in part, with the HHS Departmental Appeals Board (the Board) within 60 days after the date it receives notice of the adverse action. The State must submit its brief and supporting documents when it files its appeal.

(2) The State must send a copy of the appeal, and any supplemental filings, to the Office of the General Counsel, Children, Families and Aging Division, Room 411-D, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20201.

(c) We will submit our reply brief and supporting documentation within 45 days of the receipt of the State's submission under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) The State may submit a reply and any supporting documentation within 21 days of its receipt of our reply under paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) The appeal to the Board must follow the provisions of the rules under this section and those at §§ 16.2, 16.9, 16.10, and 16.13-16.22 of this title, to the extent that they are consistent with this section.

(f) The Board will consider an appeal filed by a State on the basis of the documentation and briefs submitted, along with any additional information the Board may require to support a final decision. Such information may include a hearing if the Board determines that it is necessary. In deciding whether to uphold an adverse action or any portion of such action, the Board will conduct a thorough review of the issues.

(g)(1) A State may obtain judicial review of a final decision by the Board by filing an action within 90 days after the date of such decision. It should file this action with the district court of the United States in the judicial district where the State agency is located or in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.

(2) The district court will review the final decision of the Board on the record established in the administrative proceeding, in accordance with the standards of review prescribed by 5 U.S.C. 706(2). The court will base its review on the documents and supporting data submitted to the Board.
