
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 263 - EXPENDITURES OF STATE AND FEDERAL TANF FUNDS
##### § 263.0 What definitions apply to this part?

(a) Except as noted in § 263.2(d), the general TANF definitions at §§ 260.30 through 260.33 of this chapter apply to this part.

(b) The term "administrative costs" means costs necessary for the proper administration of the TANF program or separate State programs.

(1) It excludes direct costs of providing program services.

(i) For example, it excludes costs of providing diversion benefits and services, providing program information to clients, screening and assessments, development of employability plans, work activities, post-employment services, work supports, and case management. It also excludes costs for contracts devoted entirely to such activities.

(ii) It excludes the salaries and benefits costs for staff providing program services and the direct administrative costs associated with providing the services, such as the costs for supplies, equipment, travel, postage, utilities, rental of office space and maintenance of office space.

(2) It includes costs for general administration and coordination of these programs, including contract costs and all indirect (or overhead) costs. Examples of administrative costs include:

(i) Salaries and benefits of staff performing administrative and coordination functions;

(ii) Activities related to eligibility determinations;

(iii) Preparation of program plans, budgets, and schedules;

(iv) Monitoring of programs and projects;

(v) Fraud and abuse units;

(vi) Procurement activities;

(vii) Public relations;

(viii) Services related to accounting, litigation, audits, management of property, payroll, and personnel;

(ix) Costs for the goods and services required for administration of the program such as the costs for supplies, equipment, travel, postage, utilities, and rental of office space and maintenance of office space, provided that such costs are not excluded as a direct administrative cost for providing program services under paragraph (b)(1) of this section;

(x) Travel costs incurred for official business and not excluded as a direct administrative cost for providing program services under paragraph (b)(1) of this section;

(xi) Management information systems not related to the tracking and monitoring of TANF requirements (e.g., for a personnel and payroll system for State staff); and

(xii) Preparing reports and other documents.
