
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 264 - OTHER ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - What Specific Rules Apply for Other Program Penalties?
###### § 264.50 What happens if, in a fiscal year, a State does not expend, with its own funds, an amount equal to the reduction to the adjusted SFAG resulting from a penalty?

(a)(1) When we withhold Federal TANF funds from a State during a fiscal year because of other penalty actions listed at § 262.1 of this chapter, the State must replace these Federal TANF funds with State funds during the subsequent fiscal year.

(2) If the State fails to replace funds during the subsequent year, then we will assess an additional penalty of no more than two percent of the adjusted SFAG during the year that follows the subsequent year.

(b) A State must expend such replacement funds under its TANF program, not under "separate State programs."

(c) We will assess a penalty of no more than two percent of the adjusted SFAG plus the amount equal to the difference between the amount the State was required to expend and the amount it actually expended in the fiscal year.

(1) We will assess the maximum penalty amount if the State made no additional expenditures to compensate for the reductions to its adjusted SFAG resulting from penalties.

(2) We will reduce the percentage portion of the penalty if the State has expended some of the amount required. In such case, we will calculate the applicable percentage portion of the penalty by multiplying the percentage of the required expenditures that the State failed to make in the fiscal year by two percent.

(d) The reasonable cause and corrective compliance plan provisions at §§ 262.5 and 262.6 of this chapter do not apply to this penalty.
