
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 264 - OTHER ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - What Are the Requirements for the Contingency Fund?
###### § 264.72 What requirements are imposed on a State if it receives contingency funds?

(a)(1) A State must meet a Contingency Fund MOE level of 100 percent of historic State expenditures for FY 1994.

(2) A State must exceed the Contingency Fund MOE level to keep any of the contingency funds that it received. It may be able to retain a portion of the amount of contingency funds that match countable State expenditures, as defined in § 264.0, that are in excess of the State's Contingency Fund MOE level, after the overall adjustment required by section 403(b)(6)(C) of the Act.

(b) A State must complete an annual reconciliation, in accordance with § 264.73, in order to determine how much, if any, of the contingency funds that it received in a fiscal year it may retain.

(c) If required to remit funds under the annual reconciliation, a State must remit all (or a portion) of the funds paid to it for a fiscal year within one year after it has failed to meet either the Food Stamp trigger or the Unemployment trigger, as defined in § 264.0, for three consecutive months.

(d) A State must expend contingency funds in the fiscal year in which they are awarded.

(e) A State may not transfer contingency funds to the Discretionary Fund of the CCDF or the SSBG.

(f) A State must follow the restrictions and prohibitions in effect for Federal TANF funds, including the provisions of § 263.11 of this chapter, in its use of contingency funds.
