
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 270 - HIGH PERFORMANCE BONUS AWARDS
##### ยง 270.5 What factors will we use to determine a State's score on the work measures?
###### Ranking of States.

(b)(1) We will measure State performance in the work measures over the course of an entire fiscal year both for the performance year and the comparison year, if applicable.

(2) We will rank the competing States on the work measures for which they:

(i) Indicate they wish to compete; and

(ii) Submit the data specified in ยง 270.6 within the time frames specified in ยง 270.11.

(3) We will rank the States on absolute performance in each of the work measures in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. For each of the work measures in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section, we will rank States based on the percentage point change in their improvement rate in the performance year compared to the comparison year. The rank of the performance in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(4) of this section will be a composite score of the rank of the job retention and the earnings gain measures.

(4) We will calculate the percentage rate for each work measure to two decimal points. If two or more States have the same absolute or improvement rate for a specific work measure, we will calculate the rates for these States to as many decimal points as necessary to eliminate the tie.
