
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 283 - IMPLEMENTATION OF SECTION 403(A)(2) OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT BONUS TO REWARD DECREASE IN ILLEGITIMACY RATIO
##### ยง 283.6 If a State wants to be considered for bonus eligibility, what data on abortions must it submit?

(a) To be considered further for bonus eligibility, each potentially eligible State, as identified under ยง 283.5, must submit to ACF data and information on the number of abortions for calendar year 1995 within two months of this notification. This number must measure either of the following:

(1) For calendar year 1995, the total number of abortions performed by all providers within the State; or

(2) For calendar year 1995, the total number of abortions performed by all providers within the State on the total population of State residents only. This is the preferred measure.

(b) States must have obtained these data on abortions for calendar year 1995 within 60 days of publication of the final rule and must include with their submission of 1995 data an official record documenting when they obtained the abortion data.

(c) Within two months of notification by ACF of potential eligibility, the State must submit:

(1) The number of abortions performed for the most recent year for which abortion data are available (as defined in ยง 283.2 to mean the year that is two calendar years prior to the current calendar year). In measuring the number of abortions, the State must use the same definition, either under paragraph (a)(1) or paragraph (a)(2) of this section, for both 1995 and the most recent year; or

(2) If applicable, the adjusted number and information specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) If the State's data collection or reporting methodology changed between 1995 and the bonus year in such a way as to reflect an increase or decrease in the number of abortions that is different than what actually occurred during the period, the State must:

(1) When submitting the number of abortions for the most recent year under paragraph (c)(2), adjust the number to exclude increases or decreases in the number due to changes in methodology for collecting or reporting the data. For example, this calculation should include adjustments for increases or decreases in response rates for providers in reporting abortion data;

(2) Provide a rationale for the adjustment, i.e., a description of how the data collection or reporting methodology was changed. This could include a description of how legislative, policy or procedural changes affected the collection or reporting of abortion data, or an indication of changes in the response rate of providers in reporting abortion data; and

(3) Provide a certification by the Governor, or his or her designee, that the number of abortions reported to ACF accurately reflects these adjustments for changes in data collection or reporting methodology.
