
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 63 - GRANT PROGRAMS ADMINISTERED BY THE OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR PLANNING AND EVALUATION
##### Subpart B - Financial Provisions
###### ยง 63.23 Telecommunications Demonstration Grants.

The provisions of this section apply only to grants awarded under authority of 392A of the Communications Act of 1934.

(a) Funds provided under the Telecommunications Demonstrations Program shall be available to support the planning, development, and acquisition or leasing of facilities and equipment necessary to the demonstration. However, funds shall not be available for the construction, remodeling, or repair of structures to house facilities or equipment acquired or developed with such funds, except that such funds may be used for minor remodeling which is necessary for and incident to the installation of such facilities or equipment.

(b) Funds shall not be available for the development of programming materials or content.

(c) The funding of any demonstration under this authority shall continue for not more than three years from the date of the original grant or contract.

(1) Applications for assistance under the Act may project goals and activities over a period of up to three years. Approval of a multi-year project is intended to offer the project a reasonable degree of stability over time and to facilitiate additional long range planning.

(2) Applications proposing a multi-year project must be accompanied by an explanation of the need for multi-year support, an overview of the objectives and activities proposed, and budget estimates to attain these objectives in any proposed subsequent year.

(3) Subject to the availability of funds, an application for assistance to continue a project during the project period will be reviewed on a non-competitive basis to determine-

(i) If the award recipient has complied with the award terms and conditions, the Act, and applicable regulations;

(ii) The effectiveness of the project to date in terms of progress toward its goals, or the constructive changes proposed as a result of the ongoing evaluation of the project; and,

(iii) If continuation of the project would be in the best interests of the Government.

(d) The use of equipment in demonstration projects shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and grant funds may not be expended or obligated for purchase, lease, or use of such equipment prior to appropriate and necessary coordination by the grantee with the Commission. In particular:

(1) For any project requiring a new or modification of an existing authorization(s) from the FCC, application(s) to the FCC for such authorization(s) must have been tendered for filing prior to the closing date established by any solicitation for grant applications offered under the Telecommunications Demonstration Program.

(2) If the project is to be associated with an existing telecommunications activity requiring an FCC authorization, such operating authority for that activity must be current and valid.

(3) For any project requiring a new or modification of an existing authorization(s) from the FCC, the applicant must file with the Secretary of Health and Human Services a copy of each FCC application and any amendments thereto.

(4) For any project requiring a new or modification of an existing authorization(s) from the FCC, the applicant must tender for filing with the FCC a copy of the application to the Secretary for a telecommunications demonstration grant.

(5) If the applicant fails to file required applications by the closing date established by the solicitation for grant applications, or if the FCC returns as substantially incomplete or deficient, dismisses, or denies an application required for the project, or any part thereof, or for the operation of any facility with which the project is associated, the Secretary may return the application for Federal assistance.

(e) For the purposes of this program, the term "non-broadcast telecommunications facilities" includes but is not limited to, cable television systems, communications satellite systems and related terminal equipment, and other methods of transmitting, emitting, or receiving images and sounds or intelligence by means of wire, radio, optical, electromagnetic, and other means (including non-broadcast utilization of telecommunications equipment normally associated with broadcasting use).

(f) Each applicant shall provide such information as the Assistant Secretary deems necessary to make a Federal assessment of the impact of the project on the quality of the human environment in accordance with section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (including the National Historical Preservation Act and other environmental acts). (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)).
