
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 286 - TRIBAL TANF PROVISIONS
##### Subpart C - Tribal TANF Plan Content and Processing
###### ยง 286.135 What information on penalties against individuals must be included in a Tribal Family Assistance Plan?

(a) The TFAP must include the Tribe's proposal for penalties against individuals who refuse to engage in work activities. The Tribe's proposal must address the following:

(1) Will the Tribe impose a pro rata reduction, or more at Tribal option, or will it terminate assistance to a family?

(2) After consideration of the provision specified at ยง 286.150, what will be the proposed Tribal policies related to a single custodial parent, with a child under the age of 6, who refuses to engage in work activities because of a demonstrated inability to obtain needed child care?

(3) What good cause exceptions, if any, does the Tribe propose that will allow individuals to avoid penalties for failure to engage in work?

(4) What other rules governing penalties does the Tribe propose?

(5) What, if any, will be the Tribe's policies related to victims of domestic violence consistent with ยง 286.140?

(b) The Tribe's rationale for its proposal must also be included in the TFAP.

(1) The rationale must address how the proposed penalties against individuals are consistent with the purposes of TANF, consistent with the economic conditions and resources of the Tribe, and how they relate to the requirements of section 407(e) of the Act.

(2) Examples of the information that could be included to illustrate the Tribe's proposal include, but are not limited to; poverty, unemployment, jobless and job surplus rates; education levels of adults in the service area; availability of and/or accessibility to resources (educational facilities, transportation) to help families become employable and find employment; and employment opportunities on and near the service area.

(c) We may require a Tribe to submit additional information about the rationale before we approve the proposed penalties against individuals.
