
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 286 - TRIBAL TANF PROVISIONS
##### Subpart D - Accountability and Penalties
###### § 286.240 How can a Tribe appeal our decision to take a penalty?

(a) We will formally notify the Tribe of a potential reduction to the Tribe's TFAG within five days after we determine that a Tribe is subject to a penalty and inform the Tribe of its right to appeal to the Departmental Appeals Board (the Board) established in the Department of Health and Human Services. Such notification will include the factual and legal basis for taking the penalty in sufficient detail for the Tribe to be able to respond in an appeal.

(b) Within 60 days of the date it receives notice of the penalty, the Tribe may file an appeal of the action, in whole or in part, to the Board.

(c) The Tribe must include all briefs and supporting documentation when it files its appeal. A copy of the appeal and any supplemental filings must be sent to the Office of General Counsel, Children, Families and Aging Division, Room 411-D, 200 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20201.

(d) ACF must file its reply brief and supporting documentation within 45 days after receipt of the Tribe's submission under paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) The Tribe's appeal to the Board must follow the provisions of this section and those at §§ 16.2, 16.9, 16.10, and 16.13 through 16.22 of this title to the extent they are consistent with this section.

(f) The Board will consider an appeal filed by a Tribe on the basis of the documentation and briefs submitted, along with any additional information the Board may require to support a final decision. Such information may include a hearing if the Board determines that it is necessary. In deciding whether to uphold an adverse action or any portion of such action, the Board will conduct a thorough review of the issues.

(g) The filing date shall be the date materials are received by the Board in a form acceptable to it.

(h) A Tribe may obtain judicial review of a final decision by the Board by filing an action within 90 days after the date of such decision with the district court of the United States in the judicial district where the Tribe or TFAG service area is located.

(1) The district court will review the final decision of the Board on the record established in the administrative proceeding, in accordance with the standards of review prescribed by 5 U.S.C. 706(2). The court's review will be based on the documents and supporting data submitted to the Board.

(2) [Reserved]

(i) No reduction to the Tribe's TFAG will occur until a final disposition of the matter has been made.
