
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter II - Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 286 - TRIBAL TANF PROVISIONS
##### Subpart E - Data Collection and Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 286.275 What information must Tribes file annually?
####### i.e.,

(xi) Legally operating (no license category available in Tribal TANF grantee's locality) center-based child care.

(5) A description of any nonrecurring, short-term benefits provided, including:

(i) The eligibility criteria associated with such benefits, including any restrictions on the amount, duration, or frequency of payments;

(ii) Any policies that limit such payments to families that are eligible for TANF assistance or that have the effect of delaying or suspending a family's eligibility for assistance; and

(iii) Any procedures or activities developed under the TANF program to ensure that individuals diverted from assistance receive information about, referrals to, or access to other program benefits (such as Medicaid and food stamps) that might help them make the transition from Welfare-to-Work; and

(6) A description of the procedures the Tribal TANF grantee has established and is maintaining to resolve displacement complaints, pursuant to ยง 286.110. This description must include the name of the Tribal TANF grantee agency with the lead responsibility for administering this provision and explanations of how the Tribal TANF grantee has notified the public about these procedures and how an individual can register a complaint.

(7) Tribes electing the FVO must submit a description of the strategies and procedures in place to ensure that victims of domestic violence receive appropriate alternative services, as well as an aggregate figure for the total number of good cause domestic waivers granted.

(c) If the Tribal TANF grantee has submitted the information required in paragraph (b) of this section in the TFAP, it may meet the annual reporting requirements by reference in lieu of re-submission. Also, if the information in the annual report has not changed since the previous annual report, the Tribal TANF grantee may reference this information in lieu of re-submission.

(d) If a Tribal TANF grantee makes a substantive change in certain data elements in paragraph (b) of this section, it must file a copy of the change either with the next quarterly data report or as an amendment to its TFAP. The Tribal TANF grantee must also indicate the effective date of the change. This requirement is applicable to paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section.
