
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart B - Responsibilities
###### ยง 73.735-201 Employees and supervisors.

(a) Employees and special Government employees shall be responsible for observing all generally accepted rules of conduct and the specific provisions of law and the regulations of this part that apply to them. They are required to become familiar with these regulations and to exercise informed judgments to avoid misconduct or conflicts of interest. They shall secure approvals when required and file financial disclosure reports or statements in accordance with the provisions of this part. Failure to observe any of these regulations may be cause for disciplinary action. Some of the provisions are required by law and carry criminal penalties which are in addition to any disciplinary action which could be taken. When employees have doubts about any provision, they should consult their supervisor, personnel office, or the Department Ethics Counselor or a deputy counselor.

(b) Supervisors, because of their day-to-day relationships with employees, are responsible to a large degree for making sure high standards of conduct are maintained. They must become familiar with the Department's standards of conduct regulations and apply the standards to the work they do and supervise. Supervisors shall take suitable action, including disciplinary action in accordance with subpart L of these regulations, when violations occur.
