
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 302 - STATE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 302.33 Services to individuals not receiving title IV-A assistance.
###### Application fee.

(c)(1) Beginning October 1, 1985, the State plan must provide that an application fee will be charged for each individual who applies for services under this section. Under this paragraph:

(i) The State shall collect the application fee from the individual applying for IV-D services or pay the application fee out of State funds.

(ii) The State may recover the application fee from the noncustodial parent who owes a support obligation to a non-IV-A family on whose behalf the IV-D agency is providing services and repay it to the applicant or itself.

(iii) State funds used to pay an application fee are not program expenditures under the State plan but are program income under ยง 304.50 of this chapter.

(iv) Any application fee charged must be uniformly applied on a statewide basis and must be:

(A) A flat dollar amount not to exceed $25 (or such higher or lower amount as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate for any fiscal year to reflect increases or decreases in administrative costs); or

(B) An amount based on a fee schedule not to exceed the flat dollar amount specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section. The fee schedule must be based on the applicant's income.

(v) The State may allow the jurisdiction that collects support for the State under this part to retain any application fee collected under this section.

(2) In an interstate case, the application fee is charged by the State where the individual applies for services under this section.
