
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 302 - STATE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 302.33 Services to individuals not receiving title IV-A assistance.
###### Recovery of costs.

(d)(1) The State may elect in its State plan to recover any costs incurred in excess of any fees collected to cover administrative costs under the IV-D State plan. A State which elects to recover costs shall collect on a case by case basis either excess actual or standardized costs:

(i) From the individual who owes a support obligation to a non-IV-A family on whose behalf the IV-D agency is providing services under this section; or

(ii) From the individual who is receiving IV-D services under paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (iii) of this section, either directly or from the support collected on behalf of the individual, but only if the State has in effect a procedure for informing all individuals authorized within the State to establish an obligation for support that the State will recover costs from the individual receiving IV-D services under paragraphs (a)(1) (i) and (iii) of this section.

(2) A State that recovers standardized costs under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall develop a methodology, which is reflected in a record, to determine standardized costs which are as close to actual costs as is possible. This methodology must be made available to any individual upon request.

(3) The IV-D agency shall not treat any amount collected from the individual as a recovery of costs under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section except amounts which exceed the current support owed by the individual under the obligation.

(4) If a State elects to recover costs under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the IV-D agency may attempt to seek reimbursement from the individual who owes a support obligation for any costs paid by the individual who is receiving IV-D services and pay all amounts reimbursed to the individual who is receiving IV-D services.

(5) If a State elects to recover costs under this section, the IV-D agency must notify, consistent with the option selected, either the individual who is receiving IV-D services under paragraphs (a)(1) (i) or (iii) of this section, or the individual who owes a support obligation that such recovery will be made. In an interstate case, the IV-D agency where the case originated must notify the individual receiving IV-D services of the States that recover costs.

(6) The IV-D agency must notify the IV-D agencies in all other States if it recovers costs from the individual receiving IV-D services.
