
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart C - Conduct on the Job
###### ยง 73.735-302 Support of department programs.

(a) When a Department program is based on law, Executive Order or regulation, every employee has a positive obligation to make it function as efficiently and economically as possible and to support it as long as it is a part of recognized public policy. An employee may, therefore, properly make an address explaining and interpreting such a program, citing its achievements, defending it against uninformed or unjust criticism, or soliciting views for improving it.

(b) An employee shall not, either directly or indirectly, use appropriated funds to influence, or attempt to influence, a Member of Congress to favor or oppose legislation. However, when authorized by his or her supervisor, an employee is not prohibited from:

(1) Testifying, on request, as a representative of the Department on pending legislation or proposals before Congressional Committees; or

(2) Assisting Congressional Committees in drafting bills or reports on request, when it is clear that the employee is serving solely as a technical expert under the direction of committee leadership.

(c) All employees shall be familiar with regulations and published instructions that relate to their official duties and responsibilities and shall comply with those directives. This includes carrying out proper orders from officials authorized to give them.

(d) Employees are required to assist the Inspector General and other investigative officials in the performance of their duties or functions. This requirement includes the giving of statements or evidence to investigators of the Inspector General's office or other HHS investigators authorized to conduct investigations into potential violations.
