
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 302 - STATE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 302.52 Distribution of support collected in Title IV-E foster care maintenance cases.

Effective October 1, 1984, the State plan shall provide as follows:

(a) For purposes of distribution under this section, amounts collected in foster care maintenance cases shall be treated in accordance with the provisions of ยง 302.51(a) of this part.

(b) The amounts collected as support by the IV-D agency under the State plan on behalf of children for whom the State is making foster care maintenance payments under the title IV-E State plan and for whom an assignment under section 471(a)(17) of the Act is effective shall be distributed as follows:

(1) Any amount that is collected in a month which represents payment on the required support obligation for that month shall be retained by the State to reimburse itself for foster care maintenance payments. Of that amount retained by the State as reimbursement for that month's foster care maintenance payment, the State IV-D agency shall determine the Federal government's share so that the State may reimburse the Federal government to the extent of its participation in financing of the foster care maintenance payment.

(2) If the amount collected is in excess of the monthly amount of the foster care maintenance payment but not more than the monthly support obligation, the State must pay the excess to the State agency responsible for supervising the child's placement and care under section 472(a)(2) of the Act. The State agency must use the money in the manner it determines will serve the best interests of the child including:

(i) Setting aside amounts for the child's future needs; or

(ii) Making all or part of the amount available to the person responsible for meeting the child's daily needs to be used for the child's benefit.

(3) If the amount collected exceeds the amount required to be distributed under paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, but not the total unreimbursed foster care maintenance payments provided under title IV-E or unreimbursed assistance payments provided under title IV-A, the State shall retain the excess to reimburse itself for these payments. If past assistance or foster care maintenance payments are greater than the total support obligation owed, the maximum amount the State may retain as reimbursement for such payments is the amount of such obligation. If amounts are collected which represent the required support obligation for periods prior to the first month in which the family received assistance under the State's title IV-A plan or foster care maintenance payments under the State's title IV-E plan, such amounts may be retained by the State to reimburse the difference between such support obligation and such payments. Of the amounts retained by the State, the State IV-D agency shall determine the Federal government's share of the amount so that the State may reimburse the Federal government to the extent of its participation in financing the assistance payments and foster care maintenance payments.

(4) Any balance shall be paid to the State agency responsible for supervising the child's placement and care and shall be used to serve the best interests of the child as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(5) If an amount collected as support represents payment on the required support obligation for future months, the amount shall be applied to those future months. However, no amounts shall be applied to future months unless amounts have been collected which fully satisfy the support obligation assigned under sections 408(a)(3) and 471 (a)(17) of the Act for the current month and all past months.

(c) When a State ceases making foster care maintenance payments under the State's title IV-E State plan, the assignment of support rights under section 471(a)(17) of the Act terminates except for the amount of any unpaid support that has accrued under the assignment. The IV-D agency shall attempt to collect such unpaid support. Under this requirement, any collection made by the State under this paragraph must be distributed in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
