
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 302 - STATE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 302.75 Procedures for the imposition of late payment fees on noncustodial parents who owe overdue support.

(a) Effective September 1, 1984, the State plan may provide for imposition of late payment fees on noncustodial parents who owe overdue support.

(b) If a State opts to impose late payment fees-

(1) The late payment fee must be uniformly applied in an amount not less than 3 percent nor more than 6 percent of overdue support.

(2) The fee shall accrue as arrearages accumulate and shall not be reduced upon partial payment of arrears. The fee may be collected only after the full amount of overdue support is paid and any requirements under State law for notice to the noncustodial parent have been met.

(3) The collection of the fee must not directly or indirectly reduce the amount of current or overdue support paid to the individual to whom it is owed.

(4) The late payment fee must be imposed in cases where there has been an assignment under section 408(a)(3) of the Act or section 471(a)(17) of the Act or the IV-D agency is providing services under ยง 302.33 of this chapter.

(5) The State may allow fees collected to be retained by the jurisdiction making the collection.

(6) The State must reduce its expenditures claimed under the Child Support Enforcement program by any fees collected under this section in accordance with ยง 304.50 of this chapter.
