
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 303 - STANDARDS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
##### ยง 303.5 Establishment of paternity.

(a) For all cases referred to the IV-D agency or applying for services under ยง 302.33 of this chapter in which paternity has not been established, the IV-D agency must, as appropriate:

(1) Provide an alleged father the opportunity to voluntarily acknowledge paternity in accordance with ยง 302.70(a)(5)(iii); and

(2) Attempt to establish paternity by legal process established under State law.

(b) The IV-D agency need not attempt to establish paternity in any case involving incest or forcible rape, or in any case in which legal proceedings for adoption are pending, if, in the opinion of the IV-D agency, it would not be in the best interests of the child to establish paternity.

(c) The IV-D agency must identify and use through competitive procurement laboratories which perform, at reasonable cost, legally and medically acceptable genetic tests which tend to identify the father or exclude the alleged father. The IV-D agency must make available a list of such laboratories to appropriate courts and law enforcement officials, and to the public upon request.

(d)(1) Upon request of any party in a contested paternity case in accordance with section 466(a)(5)(B) of the Act, and subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the IV-D agency shall require all parties to submit to genetic tests unless, in the case of an individual receiving aid under the State's title IV-A, IV-E or XIX plan, or those recipients of the food stamp program, as defined under section 3(h) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 who are required to cooperate with the child support program, there has been a determination of good cause for refusal to cooperate under section 454(29) of the Act.

(2) A contested paternity case is any action in which the issue of paternity may be raised under State law and one party denies paternity.

(e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the IV-D agency may charge any individual who is not a recipient of aid under the State's title IV-A or XIX plan a reasonable fee for performing genetic tests.

(2) Any fee charged must be reasonable so as not to discourage those in need of paternity establishment services from seeking them and may not exceed the actual costs of the genetic tests.

(3) If paternity is established and genetic tests were ordered by the IV-D agency, the IV-D agency must pay the costs of such tests, subject to recoupment (if the agency elects) from the alleged father who denied paternity. If a party contests the results of an original test, the IV-D agency shall obtain additional tests but shall require the contestant to pay for the costs of any such additional testing in advance.

(4) The IV-D agency must use any amount collected under paragraphs (e) (1) and (3) of this section that exceeds the costs of performing genetic tests to reimburse any fee paid under paragraph (e)(1) of this chapter.

(f) The IV-D agency must seek entry of a default order by the court or administrative authority in a paternity case by showing that process has been served on the defendant in accordance with State law, that the defendant has failed to respond to service in accordance with State procedures, and any additional showing required by State law, in accordance with ยง 302.70(a)(5)(viii).
