
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 303 - STANDARDS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
##### § 303.20 Minimum organizational and staffing requirements.

(a) The organizational structure of the IV-D agency (see § 302.12) provides for administration or supervision of all the functions for which it is responsible under the State plan, is appropriate to the size and scope of the program in the State, and contains clearly established lines for administrative and supervisory authority.

(b) There is an organizational structure and sufficient staff to fulfill the following required State level functions:

(1) The establishment and administration of the State plan.

(2) Formal evaluation of the quality, efficiency, effectiveness, and scope of services provided under the plan.

(3) Coordination of activities pursuant to, and assurance of compliance with, the requirements of the State's Uniform Interstate Family Support Act for cases pursuant to a State plan.

(4) Requests to the DHHS Office of Child Support Enforcement for use of the Federal Parent Locator Service, the U.S. District Courts, and Secretary of the U.S. Treasury collection procedures.

(5) Preparation and submission of reports required by the Office.

(6) Financial control of the operation of the plan.

(7) Operation of the State PLS as required under §§ 302.35, 303.3, and 303.70 of this chapter.

(c) There is an organizational structure and sufficient resources at the State and local level to meet the performance and time standards contained in this part and to provide for the administration or supervision of the following support enforcement functions:
