
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 303 - STANDARDS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
##### ยง 303.69 Requests by agents or attorneys of the United States for information from the Federal Parent Locator Service (PLS).

(a) Agents or attorneys of the United States may request information directly from the Federal PLS in connection with a parental kidnapping or child custody case. (See ยง 303.15(a) of this part for a definition of persons authorized to request the information.)

(b) All requests under this section shall be made in the manner and form prescribed by the Office.

(c) All requests under this section shall contain the information specified in ยง 303.70(d) of this part.

(d) All requests under this section shall be accompanied by a statement, signed by the agent or attorney of the United States, attesting to the following:

(1) The request is being made solely to locate an individual in connection with a parental kidnapping or child custody case.

(2) Any information obtained through the Federal PLS shall be treated as confidential, shall be used solely for the purpose for which it was obtained and shall be safeguarded.

(e) A fee may be charged to cover the costs of processing requests for information. A separate fee may be charged to cover costs of searching for a social security number before processing a request for location information.
