
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 303 - STANDARDS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
##### § 303.70 Procedures for submissions to the State Parent Locator Service (State PLS) or the Federal Parent Locator Service (Federal PLS).

(a) The State agency will have procedures for submissions to the State PLS or the Federal PLS for the purpose of locating parents, putative fathers, or children for the purpose of establishing parentage or establishing, setting the amount of, modifying, or enforcing child support obligations; for the purpose of enforcing any Federal or State law with respect to the unlawful taking or restraint of a child or making or enforcing a child custody or visitation determination as defined in section 463(d)(1) of the Act, or for the purpose of assisting State agencies to carry out their responsibilities under title IV-D, IV-A, IV-B, and IV-E programs.

(b) Only the central State PLS may make submittals to the Federal PLS for the purposes specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) All submittals shall be made in the manner and form prescribed by the Office.

(d) All submittals shall contain the following information:

(1) The parent's, putative father's or non-parent relative's name;

(2) The parent's or putative father's Social Security Number (SSN). If the SSN is unknown, the IV-D program must make reasonable efforts to ascertain the individual's SSN before making a submittal to the Federal PLS; and

(3) The non-parent relative's SSN, if known.

(4) Any other information prescribed by the Office.

(e) The director of the IV-D agency or his or her designee shall attest annually to the following:

(1)(i) The IV-D agency will only obtain information to facilitate the location of any individual in accordance with section 453(a)(2) of the Act for the purpose of establishing parentage, establishing, setting the amount of, modifying, or enforcing child support obligations, or for determining who has or may have parental rights with respect to a child, or in accordance with section 453(a)(3) of the Act for enforcing a State law with respect to the unlawful taking or restraint of a child, or for making or enforcing a child custody or visitation determination as defined in section 463(d)(1) of the Act, or in accordance with section 453(j)(3) of the Act for the purpose of assisting State agencies to carry out their responsibilities under title IV-D, IV-A, IV-B, and IV-E programs.

(ii) The IV-D agency will only provide information to the authorized persons specified in sections 453(c) or 463(d) of the Act and § 302.35 of this chapter.

(2) In the case of a submittal made on behalf of a resident parent, legal guardian, attorney or agent of a child not receiving assistance under title IV-A, the IV-D agency must verify that the requesting individual has complied with the provisions of § 302.35 of this chapter.

(3) The IV-D agency will treat any information obtained through the Federal PLS and SPLS as confidential and shall safeguard the information under the requirements of sections 453(b), 453(l), 454(8), 454(26), and 463(c) of the Act, § 303.21 of this part and instructions issued by the Office.

(f)(1) The IV-D agency shall reimburse the Secretary for the fees required under:

(i) Section 453(e)(2) of the Act whenever Federal PLS services are furnished to a resident parent, legal guardian, attorney or agent of a child not receiving assistance under title IV-A of the Act;

(ii) Section 454(17) of the Act whenever Federal PLS services are furnished in parental kidnapping and child custody or visitation determination;

(iii) Section 453(k)(3) of the Act whenever a State agency receives information from the Federal PLS pursuant to section 453 of the Act.

(2)(i) The IV-D agency may charge an individual requesting information, or pay without charging the individual, the fees required under sections 453(e)(2), 453(k)(3) or 454(17) of the Act except that the IV-D agency shall charge an individual specified in section 453(c)(3) of the Act the fee required under section 453(e)(2) of the Act

(ii) The IV-D agency may recover the fee required under section 453(e)(2) of the Act from the noncustodial parent who owes a support obligation to a family on whose behalf the IV-D agency is providing services and repay it to the individual requesting information or itself.

(iii) State funds used to pay the fee under section 453(e)(2) of the Act are not program expenditures under the State plan but are program income under § 304.50 of this chapter.

(3) The fees referenced in paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be in an amount determined to be reasonable payment for the information exchange.

(4)(i) If a State fails to transmit the fees charged by the Office under this section, the services provided by the Federal PLS in cases subject to the fees may be suspended until payment is received.

(ii) Fees shall be transmitted in the amount and manner prescribed by the Office in instructions.
