
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 303 - STANDARDS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
##### ยง 303.72 Requests for collection of past-due support by Federal tax refund offset.
###### Procedures for contesting in interstate cases.

(g)(1) If the noncustodial parent requests an administrative review in the submitting State, the IV-D agency must meet the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.

(2) If the complaint cannot be resolved by the submitting State and the noncustodial parent requests an administrative review in the State with the order upon which the referral for offset is based, the submitting State must notify the State with the order of the request for an administrative review and provide that State with all necessary information, including the information listed under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, within 10 days of the noncustodial parent's request for an administrative review.

(3) The State with the order must send a notice to the noncustodial parent and, in non-IV-A cases the custodial parent, of the time and place of the administrative review, conduct the review and make a decision within 45 days of receipt of the notice and information from the submitting State.

(4) If the administrative review results in a deletion of, or change in, the arrears balance, the State with the order upon which the referral for offset is based must notify the submitting State within timeframes established by the Office and include the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The submitting State must then notify the Office within timeframes established by the Office and include the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) Upon resolution of a complaint after an offset has been made, the State with the order must notify the submitting State of its decision promptly.

(6) When an administrative review is conducted in the State with the order, the submitting State is bound by the decision made by the State with the order.

(7) Based on the decision of the State with the order, the IV-D agency in the submitting State must take steps to refund any excess amount to the noncustodial parent promptly.

(8) In computing the arrearage collection performance level under ยง 305.2(a)(4) of this chapter, if the case is referred to the State with the order for an administrative review, the collections made as a result of Federal tax refund offset will be treated as having been collected in full by both the submitting State and the State with the order.
