
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 303 - STANDARDS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
##### ยง 303.72 Requests for collection of past-due support by Federal tax refund offset.
###### Distribution of collections.

(h)(1) Collections received by the IV-D agency as a result of Federal tax refund offset to satisfy title IV-A or non-IV-A past-due support shall be distributed as required in accordance with section 457 and, effective October 1, 2009, or up to a year earlier at State option, in accordance with the option selected under section 454(34) of the Act.

(2) Collections received by the IV-D agency in foster care maintenance cases shall be distributed as past-due support under ยง 302.52(b) (3) and (4) of this chapter.

(3)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(3)(ii), the IV-D agency must inform individuals receiving services under ยง 302.33 of this chapter in advance that amounts offset will be applied to satisfy any past-due support which has been assigned to the State and submitted for Federal tax refund offset.

(ii) Effective October 1, 2009, or up to a year earlier at State option, the IV-D agency need no longer meet the requirement for notice under paragraph (h)(3)(i) if the State has opted, under section 454(34) of the Act, to apply amounts submitted to Federal tax refund offset first to satisfy any current support due and past-due support owed to the family.

(4) If the amount collected is in excess of the amounts required to be distributed under section 457 of the Act, the IV-D agency must repay the excess to the noncustodial parent whose refund was offset or to the parties filing a joint return within a reasonable period in accordance with State law.

(5) In cases where the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, through OCSE, notifies the State that an offset is being made to satisfy non-IV-A past-due support from a refund based on a joint return, the State may delay distribution until notified that the unobligated spouse's proper share of the refund has been paid or for a period not to exceed six months from notification of offset, whichever is earlier.

(6) Collections from offset may be applied only to cases that were being enforced by the IV-D agency at the time the advance notice described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section was sent.
