
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart D - Financial Obligations
###### ยง 73.735-401 General provisions.

(a) The Department considers the indebtedness of its employees to be a matter of their own concern. However, employees shall not by failure to meet their just financial obligations reflect adversely on the Government as their employer. Employees are expected to pay each just financial obligation in a proper and timely manner. A "just financial obligation" is one acknowledged by the employee or reduced to judgment by a court, or one imposed by law such as Federal, State, or local taxes. "In a proper and timely manner" is a manner which the Department determines does not, under the circumstances, reflect adversely on the part of an employee in meeting his or her financial obligations, particularly those that relate to support of the employee's family, to payment of Federal, State, or local taxes, or to payments to tax-supported institutions such as a city or State hospital, or educational institution. If for some reason an employee is unable to pay these obligations promptly, he or she is expected to make satisfactory arrangements for payment and abide by these arrangements.

(b) Disciplinary action may be considered when an employee has handled his or her financial affairs in such a way that:

(1) Action on complaints received from creditors requires the use of a considerable amount of official time, or

(2) It appears that financial difficulties are impairing the employee's efficiency on the job, or

(3) Because of the employee's financial irresponsibility, the attitude of the general public toward the Department may be adversely affected; and the employee after counseling does not make arrangements to meet his or her financial obligations.
