
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 303 - STANDARDS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
##### ยง 303.100 Procedures for income withholding.
###### Interstate withholding.

(f)(1) The State law must require employers to comply with a withholding notice issued by any State.

(2) When an out-of-State IV-D agency requests direct withholding, the employer must be required to withhold funds as directed in the notice but to apply the income withholding laws of the noncustodial parent's principal place of employment to determine:

(i) The employer's fee for processing the withholding notice;

(ii) The maximum amount that may be withheld from the noncustodial parent's income;

(iii) The time periods to implement the withholding notice and to remit the withheld income;

(iv) The priorities for withholding and allocating income withheld for multiple child support obligees; and

(v) Any withholding term or conditions not specified in the withholding order.

(3) In other than direct withholding actions:

(i) A State may require registration for orders from other States for purposes of enforcement through withholding only if registration is for the sole purpose of obtaining jurisdiction for enforcement of the order; does not confer jurisdiction on the court or agency for any other purpose (such as modification of the underlying or original support order or resolution of custody or visitation disputes); and does not delay implementation of withholding beyond the timeframes established in paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section.

(ii) Within 20 calendar days of a determination that withholding is required in a particular case, and, if appropriate, receipt of any information necessary to carry out withholding, the initiating State must notify the IV-D agency of the State in which the noncustodial parent is employed to implement interstate withholding. The notice must contain all information necessary to carry out the withholding, including the amount requested to be withheld, a copy of the support order and a statement of arrearages, if appropriate. If necessary, the State where the support order is entered must provide the information necessary to carry out the withholding within 30 calendar days of receipt of a request for information by the initiating State.

(iii) The State in which the noncustodial parent is employed must implement withholding in accordance with this section upon receipt of the notice from the initiating State required in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The State in which the noncustodial parent is employed must notify the State in which the custodial parent is receiving services when the noncustodial parent is no longer employed in the State and provide the name and address of the noncustodial parent and new employer, if known.

(4) The withholding must be carried out in full compliance with all procedural due process requirements of the State in which the noncustodial parent is employed.

(5) Except with respect to when withholding must be implemented which is controlled by the State where the support order was entered, the law and procedures of the State in which the noncustodial parent is employed shall apply.
