
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 303 - STANDARDS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
##### § 303.102 Collection of overdue support by State income tax refund offset.
###### Fee for certain cases.

(f)The State IV-D agency may charge an individual who is receiving services under § 302.33(a)(1) (i) or (iii) of this chapter a reasonable fee to cover the cost of collecting past-due support using State tax refund offset. The State must inform the individual in advance of the amount of any fee charged.

(g) Distribution of collections. (1) The State must distribute collections received as a result of State income tax refund offset:

(i) In accordance with section 457 of the Act and §§ 302.51 and 302.52 of this chapter; and

(ii) For cases in which medical support rights have been assigned under 42 CFR 433.146, and amounts are collected which represent specific dollar amounts designated in the support order for medical purposes, under § 302.51(c) of this chapter.

(2) If the amount collected is in excess of the amounts required to be distributed under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the IV-D agency must repay the excess to the noncustodial parent whose State income tax refund was offset within a reasonable period in accordance with State law.

(3) The State must credit amounts offset on individual payment records.
