
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 304 - FEDERAL FINANCIAL PARTICIPATION
##### § 304.20 Availability and rate of Federal financial participation.
###### pro se

(vi) Services to increaseaccess to adjudicative and alternative dispute resolution processes in IV-D cases related to providing child support services; and

(vii) Investigation and prosecution of fraud related to child and spousal support.

(4) The collection and distribution of support payments including:

(i) An effective system for making collections of established support obligations and identifying delinquent cases and attempting to collect support from these cases;

(ii) Referral of cases to the IV-D agency of another State for collection when appropriate;

(iii) Making collections for another State;

(iv) The distribution of funds as required by this chapter;

(v) Making the IV-A agency aware of the amounts collected and distributed to the family for the purposes of determining eligibility for, and amount of, assistance under the State title IV-A plan;

(vi) Making the Medicaid agency aware of amounts collected and distributed to the family for the purposes of determining eligibility for assistance under the State XIX plan.

(5) The establishment and operation of the State parent locator service including:

(i) Utilization of appropriate State and local locate sources to locate noncustodial parents;

(ii) Utilization of the Federal Parent Locator Service;

(iii) Collection of the fee pursuant to § 303.70(e) of this chapter;

(iv) Referral of requests for location of a noncustodial parent to the IV-D agency of another State;

(v) Cooperation with another State in locating a noncustodial parent.

(6) Activities related to requests for certification of collection of support delinquencies by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to § 303.71 of this chapter.

(7) Activities related to requests for utilization of the United States district courts pursuant to § 303.73 of this chapter.

(8) Establishing and maintaining case records as required by § 303.2 of this chapter.

(9) The operation of systems that meet the conditions of § 307.35(a) of this chapter.

(10) Systems approved in accordance with 45 CFR part 95, subpart F. (See § 307.35(b) of this chapter.)

(11) Medical support activities as specified in §§ 303.30, 303.31, and 303.32 of this chapter.

(12) Educational and outreach activities intended to inform the public, parents and family members, and young people who are not yet parents about the Child Support Enforcement program, responsible parenting and co-parenting, family budgeting, and other financial consequences of raising children when the parents are not married to each other.
