
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 307 - COMPUTERIZED SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT SYSTEMS
##### ยง 307.11 Functional requirements for computerized support enforcement systems in operation by October 1, 2000.
###### 2

() Calculate the paternity establishment percentage for the State for each fiscal year;

(B) Having in place system controls to ensure the completeness, and reliability of, and ready access to, the data described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A)(1) of this section, and the accuracy of the calculation described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A)(2) of this section; and

(iii) System Controls: Having systems controls (e.g., passwords or blocking of fields) to ensure strict adherence to the policies described in Sec. 307.13(a); and

(3) Activities described in the Act that were added by the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-193, not otherwise addressed in this part.

(c) Collection and Disbursement of Support Payments. To the maximum extent feasible, assist and facilitate the collection and disbursement of support payments through the State disbursement unit operated under section 454B of the Act through the performance of functions which, at a minimum, include the following:

(1) Transmission of orders and notices to employers and other debtors for the withholding of income:

(i) Within 2 business days after receipt of notice of income, and the income source subject to withholding from a court, another State, an employer, the Federal Parent Locator Service, or another source recognized by the State; and

(ii) Using uniform formats prescribed by the Secretary;

(2) Ongoing monitoring to promptly identify failures to make timely payment of support; and

(3) Automatic use of enforcement procedures, including those under section 466(c) of the Act if payments are not timely, and the following procedures:

(i) Identify cases which have been previously identified as involving a noncustodial parent who is a recipient of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments or concurrent SSI payments and Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) or Social Security Retirement (SSR) benefits under title II of the Act, to prevent garnishment of these funds from the noncustodial parent's financial account; and

(ii) Return funds to a noncustodial parent, within 5 business days after the agency determines that SSI payments or concurrent SSI payments and SSDI or SSR benefits under title II of the Act, in the noncustodial parent's financial account have been incorrectly garnished.

(iii) At the option of the State, identify cases involving a noncustodial parent who is a recipient of concurrent SSI payments and either SSDI or SSR benefits under title II of the Act and prevent garnishment of these funds from the noncustodial parent through an income withholding order; and return funds to a noncustodial parent in accordance with ยง 303.100(a)(8), after the agency determines that concurrent SSI payments and either SSDI or SSR benefits have been incorrectly garnished from the noncustodial parent through an income withholding order.

(d) Expedited Administrative Procedures. To the maximum extent feasible, be used to implement the expedited administrative procedures required by section 466(c) of the Act.

(e) State case registry. Have a State case registry that meets the requirements of this paragraph.

(1) Definitions. When used in this paragraph and paragraph (f) of this section, the following definitions shall apply.

(i) Participant means an individual who owes or is owed a duty of support, imposed or imposable by law, or with respect to or on behalf of whom a duty of support is sought to be established, or who is an individual connected to an order of support or a child support case being enforced.

(ii) Participant type means the custodial party, non-custodial parent, putative father, or child, associated with a case or support order contained in the State or Federal case registry.

(iii) locate request type refers to the purpose of the request for additional matching services on information sent to the Federal case registry, for example, a IV-D locate (paternity or support establishment or support enforcement), parental kidnapping or custody and visitation.

(iv) locate source type refers to the external sources a locate submitter desires the information sent to the Federal case registry to also be matched against.

(2) The State case registry shall contain a record of:

(i) Every IV-D case receiving child support enforcement services under an approved State plan; and

(ii) Every support order established or modified in the State on or after October 1, 1998.

(3) Standardized data elements shall be included for each participant. These data elements shall include:

(i) Names;

(ii) Social security numbers;

(iii) Dates of birth;

(iv) Case identification numbers;

(v) Other uniform identification numbers;

(vi) Data elements required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section necessary for the operation of the Federal case registry;

(vii) Issuing State of an order; and

(viii) Any other information that the Secretary may require.

(4) The record required under paragraph (e)(2) of this section shall include information for every case in the State case registry receiving services under an approved State plan that has a support order in effect. The information must include:

(i) The amount of monthly (or other frequency) support owed under the order;

(ii) Other amounts due or overdue under the order including arrearages, interest or late payment penalties and fees;

(iii) Any amounts described in paragraph (e)(4) (i) and (ii) of this section that have been collected;

(iv) The distribution of such collected amounts;

(v) The birth date and, beginning no later than October 1, 1999, the name and social security number of any child for whom the order requires the provision of support; and

(vi) The amount of any lien imposed in accordance with section 466(a)(4) of the Act to enforce the order.

(5) Establish and update, maintain, and regularly monitor case records in the State case registry for cases receiving services under the State plan. To ensure information on an established IV-D case is up to date, the State should regularly update the system to make changes to the status of a case, the participants of a case, and the data contained in the case record. This includes the following:

(i) Information on administrative and judicial orders related to paternity and support;

(ii) Information obtained from comparisons with Federal, State or local sources of information;

(iii) Information on support collections and distributions; and

(iv) Any other relevant information.

(6) States may link local case registries of support orders through an automated information network in meeting paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section provided that all other requirements of this paragraph are met.

(f) Information Comparisons and other Disclosures of Information. Extract information, at such times and in such standardized format or formats, as may be required by the Secretary, for purposes of sharing and comparing with, and receiving information from, other data bases and information comparison services, to obtain or provide information necessary to enable the State, other States, the Office or other Federal agencies to carry out this chapter. As applicable, these comparisons and disclosures must comply with the requirements of section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the requirements of section 453 of the Act. The comparisons and sharing of information include:

(1) Effective October 1, 1998, (or for the child data, not later than October 1, 1999) furnishing the following information to the Federal case registry on participants in cases receiving services under the State plan and in support orders established or modified on or after October 1, 1998, and providing updates of such information within five (5) business days of receipt by the IV-D agency of new or changed, information, including information which would necessitate adding or removing a Family Violence indicator and notices of the expiration of support orders:

(i) State Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) code and optionally, county code;

(ii) State case identification number;

(iii) State member identification number;

(iv) Case type (IV-D, non-IV-D);

(v) Social security number and any necessary alternative social security numbers;

(vi) Name, including first, middle, last name and any necessary alternative names;

(vii) Sex (optional);

(viii) Date of birth;

(ix) Participant type (custodial party, non-custodial parent, putative father, child);

(x) Family violence indicator (domestic violence or child abuse);

(xi) Indication of an order;

(xii) Locate request type (optional);

(xiii) Locate source (optional); and

(xiv) Any other information of the Secretary may require.

(2) Requesting or exchanging information with the Federal parent locator service for the purposes specified in section 453 of the Act;

(3) Exchanging information with State agencies, both within and outside of the State, administering programs under titles IV-A and XIX of the Act, as necessary to perform State agency responsibilities under this chapter and under such programs; and

(4) Exchanging information with other agencies of the State, and agencies of other States, and interstate information networks, as necessary and appropriate, to assist the State and other States in carrying out the purposes of this chapter.
