
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart G - Outside Activities
###### ยง 73.735-701 General provisions.

(a) Outside employment may be appropriate when it will not adversely affect performance of an employee's official duties and will not reflect discredit on the Government or the Department. Such work may include civic, charitable, religious, and community undertakings. There are certain types of outside work, however, which give rise to a real or apparent conflict of interest. Some of these are prohibited by law. Others are prohibited by regulation, as discussed in paragraph (b) of this section, or by criteria developed by heads of operating components for application within a particular component. All of these provisions are binding, but they do not necessarily include all possible conflicts of interest. In all instances, good judgment must be used to avoid a conflict between an employee's Federal responsibilities and outside activities.

(b) An employee shall not engage in outside employment or other outside activity not compatible with the full and proper discharge of the duties and responsibilities of his or her Government employment whether or not in violation of any specific provision of law. Incompatible activities include, but are not limited to:

(1) Acceptance of a fee, compensation, gift, payment of expense, or any other thing of monetary value in any circumstances in which acceptance may result in, or create the appearance of, conflicts of interest;

(2) Outside employment which tends to impair the employee's mental or physical capacity to perform Government duties and responsibilities in an acceptable manner;

(3) Work which identifies the Department or any employee in his or her official capacity with any organization commercializing products relating to work conducted by the Department, or with any commercial advertising matter, or work performed under such circumstances as to give the impression that it is an official act of the Department or represents an official point of view;

(4) Outside work or activity that takes the employee's time and attention during his official work hours.

(c) An employee shall not receive any salary or anything of monetary value from a private source as compensation for services to the Government. For example, a Department employee may be called upon, as a part of his or her official duties, to participate in a professional meeting sponsored by a non-Government organization, or to contribute a paper or other writing prepared on official time for publication under non-Government auspices. The employee must not accept an honorarium or fee for such services, even though the organization accepting the service customarily makes such a payment to those who participate. Nor may the employee accept a contribution to some charity, educational institution, or the like, in appreciation of the services furnished by the Department employee who cannot accept the usual payment. All offers to make such a contribution must be refused. Any employee with whom such a question is raised shall explain that the service involved was provided as an official action of the Department and is authorized by law. Under these circumstances, it is inappropriate for any payment to be made, even indirectly and to a third party, for services which are furnished without charge by the Government.

(d) Other than as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, employees may receive compensation or other things of monetary value for any lecture, discussion, writing or appearance the subject matter of which is in part devoted to the responsibility, programs or operations of the Department so long as the activity is undertaken in a personal capacity, is not performed as official duty, is not done while on official time, and does not create a conflict of interest or appearance of conflict of interest. However, such activities are considered outside employment and may be undertaken only as provided in this subpart.

(e) This section does not restrict the acceptance of compensation or other things of monetary value for any lecture, discussion, writing or appearance, the subject matter of which is not devoted to the responsibilities, programs, or operations of the Department and which are undertaken in a private capacity and in accordance with ยง 73.735-704, ยง 73.735-705, or ยง 73.735-706.

(f) Federal law limits the amount of honorarium that may be paid any employee for any one speech, writing or appearance to $2,000.00 (not to include amounts for actual travel and subsistence expenses for the employee and his or her spouse) and an aggregate of $25,000.00 in any calendar year. This limitation applies to such activities whether or not the subject matter is related to the responsibilities, programs or operations of the Department. (2 U.S.C. 441i) The term "honorarium" means payment of money or other thing of value whether made gratuitously or as a fee for an appearance, speech or article but does not include salary or compensation made for services rendered on a continuing basis, such as for teaching, or as proceeds from the sale of a book or similar undertaking.

(g) An employee who is a Presidential appointee covered by section 401(a) of Executive Order 11222 shall not receive compensation or anything of monetary value for any consultation, lecture, discussion, writing or appearance, the subject matter of which is devoted substantially to the responsibilities, programs, or operations of his or her component, or which draws substantially on official data or ideas which have not or will not on request become public information.

(h) Application of these general provisions to some specific activities is discussed below.
