
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 308 - ANNUAL STATE SELF-ASSESSMENT REVIEW AND REPORT
##### § 308.2 Required program compliance criteria.
###### Establishment of paternity and support order.

(b)The State must have and use procedures required in this paragraph in at least 75 percent of the cases reviewed.

(1) If an order for support is required and established during the review period, the case meets the requirements, notwithstanding the timeframes for: establishment of cases as specified in Sec. 303.2(b) of this chapter; provision of services in intergovernmental IV-D cases per § 303.7(a)(4) through (8), (b), (c), (d)(2) through (5) and (7) and (10) of this chapter; and location and support order establishment under §§ 303.3(b)(3) and (5), and 303.4(d) of this chapter.

(2) If an order was required, but not established during the review period, the State must determine the last required action and determine whether the action was taken within the appropriate timeframe. The following is a list of possible last actions:

(i) Opening a case within 20 days pursuant to § 303.2(b) of this chapter;

(ii) If location activities are necessary, using all appropriate sources within 75 days according to § 303.3(b)(3) of this chapter. This includes all the following locate sources as appropriate: custodial parent, Federal and State Parent Locator Services, U.S. Postal Service, State workforce agency, employment data, Department of Motor Vehicles, and credit bureaus;

(iii) Repeating location attempts quarterly and when new information is received in accordance with § 303.3(b)(5) of this chapter;

(iv) Establishing an order or completing service of process necessary to commence proceedings to establish a support order, or if applicable, paternity, within 90 days of locating the non-custodial parent, or documenting unsuccessful attempts to serve process in accordance with the State's guidelines defining diligent efforts pursuant to §§ 303.3(c) and 303.4(d) of this chapter.
