
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 308 - ANNUAL STATE SELF-ASSESSMENT REVIEW AND REPORT
##### ยง 308.2 Required program compliance criteria.
###### Disbursement of collections.

(d)A State must have and use procedures required in this paragraph in at least 75 percent of the cases reviewed. With respect to the last payment received for each case:

(1) States must determine whether disbursement of collection was made within two business days after receipt by the State Disbursement Unit from the employer or other source of periodic income in accordance with section 457(a) of the Act, if sufficient information identifying the payee is provided pursuant to section 454B(c) of the Act.

(2) States may delay the distribution of collections toward arrearages until resolution of any timely appeals with respect to such arrearages pursuant to section 454B(c)(2) of the Act.

(e) Securing and enforcing medical support orders. A State must have and use procedures required under this paragraph in at least 75 percent of the cases reviewed. A State must:

(1) Determine whether support orders established or modified during the review period include medical support in accordance with ยง 303.31(b) of this chapter.

(2) If reasonable in cost and accessible private health insurance was available and required in the order, but not obtained, determine whether the National Medical Support Notice was used to enforce the order in accordance with requirements in ยง 303.32 of this chapter.

(3) Determine whether the State transferred notice of the health care provision, using the National Medical Support Notice required under ยง 303.32 of this chapter, to a new employer when a noncustodial parent, or at State option a custodial parent, was ordered to provide health insurance coverage and changed employment.
