
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart G - Outside Activities
###### § 73.735-704 Professional and consultative services.

(a) Employees may engage in outside professional or consultative work only after meeting certain conditions. Except as provided in §§ 73.735-705 and 73.735-706 for activities discussed in those sections, the conditions which must be met are:

(1) The work is not to be rendered, with or without compensation, to organizations, institutions, or state or local governments with which the official duties of the employee are directly related, or indirectly related if the indirect relationship is significant enough to cause the existence of conflict or apparent conflict of interest; or

(2) The work is not to be rendered for compensation to help a person, institution, or government unit prepare or aid in the preparation of grant applications, contract proposals, program reports, and other material which are designed to become the subject of dealings between the institutions or government units and the Federal Government. All requests to perform consultative services, either compensated or uncompensated, for institutions or government units which have recently negotiated or may in the near future seek a contract or grant from this Department must be carefully appraised to avoid any conflict or apparent conflict of interest.

(b) Advance administrative approval in accordance with § 73.735-708 of this subpart must be obtained. Such approval is required whether or not the services are for compensation, and whether or not related to the employee's official duties.

(c) For the purpose of this section, "professional and consultative work" is performance of work requiring knowledge of an advanced type in a field of science or learning customarily acquired by a course of specialized instruction and study in an institution of higher education, or hospital which requires the exercise of judgment and discretion in its performance and is primarily intellectual in nature as opposed to manual, mechanical or physical work.

(d) Membership on a Board of Directors, Board of Regents, Board of Trustees, Planning Commission, Advisory Council or Committee, or on any similar body which provides advice, counsel, or consultation, shall be considered outside consultative services for which advance administrative approval is required.
