
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart G - Outside Activities
###### ยง 73.735-705 Writing and editing.

(a) Employees are encouraged to engage in outside writing and editing whether or not done for compensation, when such activity is not otherwise prohibited. Such writing and editing, though not a part of official duties, may be on a directly related subject or entirely unrelated. Certain conditions must be met in either case, however, and certain clearances or approvals are prescribed according to the content of the material as set forth in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.

(b) Conditions applying to writing and editing done not as a part of official duties.

(1) The following conditions shall apply to all writing and editing whether related or unrelated to the employee's official duties:

(i) Government-financed time or supplies shall not be used by the author or by other Government employees in connection with the activity; and

(ii) Official support must not be expressed or implied in the material itself or advertising or promotional material, including book jackets and covers, relating to the employee and his or her contribution to the publication.

(2) If the writing or editing activity is unrelated to the employee's official duties or other responsibilities and programs of the Federal government, the employee must:

(i) Make no mention of his or her official title or affiliation with the Department, or

(ii) Use his or her official title or affiliation with the Department in a way that will not suggest or convey official endorsement of the work.

(3) If the writing or editing activity is related to the employee's official duties or other responsibilities and programs of the Federal government, the employee must:

(i) Make no mention of his or her official title or affiliation with the Department, or

(ii) Use his or her official title or affiliation with the Department and a disclaimer as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, or

(iii) Submit the material for clearance within the operating component, under procedures established by the component. When clearance is denied at any lower level, the employee shall have recourse for review up to the head of the principal operating component. This clearance will show there are no official objections to the activity and the employee may then use his or her official title or affiliation with the Department usually without a disclaimer.
