
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 309 - TRIBAL CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT (IV-D) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Tribal IV-D Program Application Procedures
###### ยง 309.35 What are the procedures for review of a Tribal IV-D program application, plan or plan amendment?

(a) The Secretary will promptly review a Tribal IV-D program application, plan or plan amendment to determine whether it conforms to the requirements of the Act and these regulations. Not later than the 90th day following the date on which the Tribal IV-D application, plan or plan amendment is received by the Secretary, action will be taken unless additional information is needed. If additional information is needed from the Tribe or Tribal organization, the Secretary will promptly notify the Tribe or Tribal organization.

(b) The Secretary will take action on the application, plan or plan amendment within 45 days of receipt of any additional information requested from the Tribe or Tribal organization.

(c) Determinations as to whether the Tribal IV-D plan, including plan amendments, originally meets or continues to meet the requirements for approval are based on applicable Federal statutes, regulations and instructions applicable to Tribal IV-D programs. Guidance may be furnished to assist in the interpretation of the regulations.

(d) After approval of the original Tribal IV-D program application, all relevant changes required by new Federal statutes, rules, regulations, and Department interpretations are required to be submitted so that the Secretary may determine whether the plan continues to meet Federal requirements and policies.

(e) If a Tribe or Tribal organization intends to make any substantial or material change in any aspect of the Tribal IV-D program, a Tribal IV-D plan amendment must be submitted at the earliest reasonable time for approval under this section. The plan amendment must describe and, as appropriate, document the changes the Tribe or Tribal organization proposes to make to its IV-D plan, consistent with the requirements of applicable statutes and regulations.

(f) The effective date of a plan or plan amendment may not be earlier than the first day of the fiscal quarter in which an approvable plan or plan amendment is submitted.
