
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 309 - TRIBAL CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT (IV-D) PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Tribal IV-D Plan Requirements
###### ยง 309.75 What administrative and management procedures must a Tribe or Tribal organization include in a Tribal IV-D plan?

A Tribe or Tribal organization must include in its Tribal IV-D plan the administrative and management provisions contained in this section:

(a) A description of the structure of the IV-D agency and the distribution of responsibilities within the agency.

(b) Evidence that all Federal funds and amounts collected by the Tribal IV-D agency are protected against loss. Tribes and Tribal organizations may comply with this paragraph by submitting documentation that establishes that every person who receives, disburses, handles, or has access to or control over funds collected under the Tribal IV-D program is covered by a bond or insurance sufficient to cover all losses.

(c) Procedures under which notices of support collected, itemized by month of collection, are provided to families receiving services under the Tribal IV-D program at least once a year. In addition, a notice must be provided at any time to either the custodial or noncustodial parent upon request.

(d) A certification that for each year during which the Tribe or Tribal organization receives or expends funds pursuant to section 455(f) of the Act and this part, it shall comply with the provisions of chapter 75 of Title 31 of the United States Code (the Single Audit Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-502, as amended) and 45 CFR part 75, subpart F.

(e) If the Tribe or Tribal organization intends to charge an application fee or recover costs in excess of the fee, the Tribal IV-D plan must provide that:

(1) The application fee must be uniformly applied by the Tribe or Tribal organization and must be:

(i) A flat amount not to exceed $25.00; or

(ii) An amount based on a fee schedule not to exceed $25.00.

(2) The Tribal IV-D agency may not charge an application fee in an intergovernmental case referred to the Tribal IV-D agency for services under ยง 309.120.

(3) No application fee may be charged to an individual receiving services under titles IV-A, IV-E foster care maintenance assistance, or XIX (Medicaid) of the Act.

(4) The Tribal IV-D agency must exclude from its quarterly expenditure claims an amount equal to all fees which are collected and costs recovered during the quarter.
