
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 309 - TRIBAL CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT (IV-D) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Tribal IV-D Program Funding
###### ยง 309.130 How will Tribal IV-D programs be funded and what forms are required?
####### Waiver of non-Federal share of program expenditures.

(e)(1) Under certain circumstances, the Secretary may grant a temporary waiver of part or all of the non-Federal share of expenditures.

(i) If a Tribe or Tribal organization anticipates that it will be temporarily unable to contribute part or all of the non-Federal share of funding under paragraph (d) of this section, it must submit a written request that this requirement be temporarily waived. A request for a waiver of part or all of the non-Federal share must be sent to ACF, included with the submission of SF 424A, no later than 60 days prior to the start of the funding period for which the waiver is being requested, except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. An untimely or incomplete request will not be considered.

(ii) If, after the start of the funding period, an emergency situation such as a hurricane or flood occurs such that the grantee would need to request a waiver of the non-Federal costs, it may do so. The request for a waiver must be submitted in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(2), (3) and (4) of this section. Any waiver request other than one submitted with the initial application must be submitted as soon as the adverse effect of the emergency situation giving rise to the request is known to the grantee.

(2) A request for a waiver of part or all of the non-Federal share must include the following:

(i) A statement of the amount of the non-Federal share that the Tribe is requesting be waived;

(ii) A narrative statement describing the circumstances and justification for the waiver request;

(iii) Portions of the Tribal budget for the funding period sufficient to demonstrate that any funding shortfall is not limited to the Tribal IV-D program and that any uncommitted Tribal reserve funds are insufficient to meet the non-Federal funding requirement;

(iv) Copies of any additional financial documents in support of the request;

(v) A detailed description of the attempts made to secure the necessary funds and in-kind contributions from other sources and the results of those attempts, including copies of all relevant correspondence; and

(vi) Any other documentation or other information that the Secretary may require to make this determination.

(3) The Tribe or Tribal organization must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary that it temporarily lacks resources to provide the non-Federal share. In its request for a temporary waiver, the Tribe or Tribal organization must be able to demonstrate that it:

(i) Lacks sufficient resources to provide the required non-Federal share of costs;

(ii) Has made reasonable, but unsuccessful, efforts to obtain non-Federal share contributions; and

(iii) Has provided all required information requested by the Secretary.

(4) All statements in support of a waiver request must be supported by evidence including, but not limited to, a description of how the Tribe or Tribal organization's circumstances relate to its capacity to provide child support enforcement services. The following statements will be considered insufficient to merit a waiver under this section without documentary evidence satisfactory to the Secretary:

(i) Funds have been committed to other budget items;

(ii) A high rate of unemployment;

(iii) A generally poor economic condition;

(iv) A lack of or a decline in revenue from gaming, fishing, timber, mineral rights and other similar revenue sources;

(v) A small or declining tax base; and

(vi) Little or no economic development.

(5)(i) If approved, a temporary waiver submitted under either paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section will expire on the last day of the funding period for which it was approved and is subject to review at any time during the funding period and may be revoked, if changing circumstances warrant.

(ii) Unless the Tribe receives a written approval of its waiver request, the funding requirements stated in paragraph (d) of this section remain in effect.

(iii) If the request for a waiver is denied, the denial is not subject to administrative appeal.
