
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter III - Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 309 - TRIBAL CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT (IV-D) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Tribal IV-D Program Funding
###### ยง 309.130 How will Tribal IV-D programs be funded and what forms are required?
####### Increase in approved budget.

(f)(1) A Tribe or Tribal organization may request an increase in the approved amount of its current budget by submitting a revised SF 424A to ACF and explaining why it needs the additional funds. The Tribe or Tribal organization should submit this request at least 60 days before additional funds are needed, to allow the Secretary adequate time to review the estimates and issue a revised grant award, if appropriate.

(2) If the change in Tribal IV-D budget estimate results from a change in the Tribal IV-D plan, the Tribe or Tribal organization must submit a plan amendment in accordance with ยง 309.35(e) of this part, a revised SF 424 and a revised SF 424A with its request for additional funding. The effective date of a plan amendment may not be earlier than the first day of the fiscal quarter in which an approvable plan is submitted in accordance with ยง 309.35(f) of this part. The Secretary must approve the plan amendment before approving any additional funding.

(3) Any approved increase in the Tribal IV-D budget will necessarily result in a proportional increase in the non-Federal share, unless a waiver of the non-Federal share has been granted.
