
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart G - Outside Activities
###### ยง 73.735-708 Administrative approval of certain outside activities.
####### Requests for Administrative Approval.

(b)An employee seeking to engage in any of the activities for which advance approval is required shall make a written request for administrative approval a reasonable time before beginning the activity. (See ยง 73.735-202(e)(1)). This request should be directed to the employee's supervisor who will forward it to the official authorized to approve outside work requests for the employee's component. The request should include the following information:

(1) Employee's name, position title, grade or rank;

(2) Nature of the activity, fully describing the specific duties or services for which approval is requested;

(3) Name and business of person or organization for which work will be done, or statement that work will be self-employment. If self-employment, employee must state whether activity will be conducted alone or with partners;

(4) Place where work will be performed;

(5) Estimated total time to be devoted to activity. If on a continuing basis, indicate estimated time per year and the anticipated termination date;

(6) Whether services can be performed entirely outside of usual duty hours. If not, the estimated number of hours absent from work should be indicated;

(7) Method or basis of compensation if any (e.g., fee, per diem, per annum, or other).

(8) Where an employee seeks approval to provide consultative or professional services to organizations including governments which have been awarded or may apply for a Federal grant or contract, the request shall also include full details on any aspect of the professional and consultative services which could relate in any way, either directly or indirectly, to grant applications, contract proposals, program reports, and other material which are designed to become the subject of dealings between the grantee or contractor and the Government. (See ยง 73.735-704(a)(2))

(c) The Department Ethics Counselor will review and approve outside work requests for Executive level officers, non-career executives, deputy ethics counselors, and Schedule C employees in the Office of the Secretary.
