
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart H - Financial Interest
###### ยง 73.735-801 Participation in matters affecting a personal financial interest.

(a) An employee shall not participate personally and substantially as a Government employee in a matter in which any of the following individuals or organizations has a financial interest:

(1) The employee;

(2) The employee's spouse;

(3) The employee's minor child;

(4) An organization in which the employee serves as an officer, director, trustee, partner, or employee; or

(5) A person or organization with which the employee is negotiating for prospective employment or has an arrangement for prospective employment. Criminal penalties may be imposed under 18 U.S.C. 208 for violations of the prohibition.

(b) Applying the provision of 18 U.S.C. 208:

(1) A "financial interest" is any interest of monetary value which may be directly and predictably affected by the official action of an employee. There is no minimum amount of value or control that constitutes a financial interest.

(2) The prohibition of 18 U.S.C. 208 applies to personal and substantial involvement by an employee in a matter, exercised through decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, investigation, giving advice, or other significant effort regarding the matter.

(3) An employee must know that the financial interest exists in order to violate 18 U.S.C. 208.

(4) Negotiation for prospective employment includes both an indication of interest on the part of the employee in working for an organization and an affirmative action on the part of the organization to show consideration of the employee.

(c) An employee may obtain approval to participate in his or her official capacity in a matter in which he or she has a direct or indirect financial interest, if the interest is not so substantial as to affect the integrity of his or her official duties. An employee who believes that such participation is warranted should follow the procedures in ยง 73.735-804.

(d) An employee convicted of violating 18 U.S.C. 208 may be fined up to $10,000, or imprisoned up to two years, or both.
