
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 400 - REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Grants to States for Refugee Resettlement
###### The State Plan
####### ยง 400.9 Administrative review of decisions on approval of State plans and plan amendments.

(a) Any State dissatisfied with a determination by the Director, or his or her designee, under ยง 400.8 with respect to any plan or plan amendment may, within 60 days after the date of notification of such determination, file a petition with the Director, or designee, for reconsideration of the determination.

(b) A State may request that a hearing be held, but it is not required to do so.

(c) If a State requests a hearing, the Director, or designee, will notify the State within 30 days after receipt of such a petition, of the time and location of the hearing to reconsider the issue.

(d) The hearing must be held not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the date the notice of the hearing is furnished to the State, unless the Director, or designee, and the State agree in writing on another time.

(e) The hearing procedures in part 213 of this title will be used except that:

(1) "The Director" is substituted where there is a reference to "the Administrator," and

(2) "ORR Hearing Clerk" is substituted where there is reference to the "SRS Hearing Clerk."

(f) The Director will affirm, modify, or reverse the original decisions within 60 days of the receipt of the State's petition or, if a hearing is held, within 60 days after the hearing.

(g) The initial determination by the Director, or designee, that a plan or amendment is not approvable shall remain in effect pending the reconsideration.

(h) If the Director reverses the original decision, ORR will reimburse any funds incorrectly withheld or otherwise denied.
