
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 400 - REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Grants to States for Refugee Resettlement
###### Award of Grants to States
####### ยง 400.13 Cost allocation.

(a) A State must allocate costs, both direct and indirect, appropriately between the Refugee Resettlement Program (RRP) and other programs which it administers.

(b) Within the RRP, a State must allocate costs appropriately among its CMA grant, social services grant, and any other Refugee Resettlement Program (RRP) grants which it may receive, as prescribed by the Director.

(c) Certain administrative costs incurred for the overall management of the State's refugee program (e.g., development of the State plan, overall program coordination, and salary and travel costs of the State Refugee Coordinator), as identified by the Director, may be charged to the CMA grant. All other costs must be allocated among the CMA grant, social services grant, and any other Refugee Resettlement Program (RRP) grants.

(d) Costs of case management services, as defined in ยง 400.2, may not be charged to the CMA grant.

(e) Administrative costs incurred by local resettlement agencies in the administration of the public/private RCA program (i.e., administrative costs of providing cash assistance) may be charged to the CMA grant. Administrative costs of managing the services component of the RCA program must be charged to the social services grant.
