
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 400 - REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Requirements for Employability Services and Employment
###### General Requirements
####### § 400.75 Registration for employment services, participation in employability service programs and targeted assistance programs, going to job interviews, and acceptance of appropriate offers of employment.

(a) As a condition for receipt of refugee cash assistance, a refugee who is not exempt under § 400.76 of this subpart must, except for good cause shown-

(1) Register with an "appropriate agency providing employment services," as defined in § 400.71, and within 30 days of receipt of aid participate in the employment services provided by such agency, as defined in § 400.154(a) of this part.

(2) Go to a job interview which is arranged by the State agency or its designee.

(3) Accept at any time, from any source, an offer of employment, as determined to be appropriate by the State agency or its designee.

(4) Participate in any employability service program which provides job or language training in the area in which the refugee resides, which is funded under section 412(c) of the Act, and which is determined to be available and appropriate for that refugee; or if such a program funded under section 412(c) is not available or appropriate in the area in which the refugee resides, any other available and appropriate program in such area.

(5) Participate in any targeted assistance program in the area in which the refugee resides, which is funded under section 412(c) of the Act, and which is determined to be available and appropriate for that refugee.

(6)(i) Accept an offer of employment which is determined to be appropriate by the local resettlement agency which was responsible for the initial resettlement of the refugee or by the appropriate State or local employment service;

(ii) Go to a job interview which is arranged through such agency or service; and

(iii) Participate in a social service or targeted assistance program which such agency or service determines to be available or appropriate.

(b) The State agency or its designee must permit, but may not require, the voluntary registration for employment services of an applicant or recipient who is exempt under § 400.76 of this part.
