
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart I - Reporting Financial Interests
###### ยง 73.735-902 Reporting requirements for certain employees not covered by the Ethics in Government Act of 1978.
####### Applicability.

(a)The following employees and special Government employees shall submit confidential statements of employment and financial interests in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, provided they are not required to submit financial disclosure reports under ยง 73.735-901. A list of the positions in this Department whose incumbents are required to file financial interest statements as prescribed by this subpart is available for review in all of the Departments servicing personnel offices.

(1) Officers and employees in positions classified at GS-13 or above (or comparable pay level) who have decision-making responsibility for the following matters:

(i) Contracting or procurement,

(ii) Administering or monitoring grants or subsidies,

(iii) Regulating or auditing private or other non-Federal enterprises, or

(iv) Other activities where the decision or action would have an economic impact on the interest of any non-Federal enterprise.

(2) Incumbents of any other positions designated by the head of the principal operating component, or by the Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget for the Office of the Secretary, to report employment and financial interests in order to protect the integrity of the Government and to avoid possible conflicts of interest. The designation of any such positions below the GS-13 grade must be approved by the Office of Personnel Management.

(3) All experts, consultants, or advisory committee members who are not required to submit a public financial disclosure report in accordance with the Ethics in Government Act except:

(i) Doctors, dentists and allied medical specialists performing services for, or consulted as to the diagnosis or treatment of, individual patients; or

(ii) Veterinarians performing services for or consulted as to care and service to animals.
