
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 400 - REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Child Welfare Services
###### ยง 400.118 Case planning.

(a) A State, or its designee under ยง 400.117, must develop and implement an appropriate plan for the care and supervision of, and services provided to, each unaccompanied minor, to ensure that the child is placed in a foster home or other setting approved by the legally responsible agency and in accordance with the child's need for care and for social, health, and educational services.

(b) Case planning for unaccompanied minors must, at a minimum, address the following elements:

(1) Family reunification;

(2) Appropriate placement of the unaccompanied child in a foster home, group foster care, residential facility, supervised independent living, or other setting, as deemed appropriate in meeting the best interest and special needs if the child.

(3) Health screening and treatment, including provision for medical and dental examinations and for all necessary medical and dental treatment.

(4) Orientation, testing, and counseling to facilitate the adjustment of the child to American culture.

(5) Preparation for participation in American society with special emphasis upon English language instruction and occupational as well as cultural training as necessary to facilitate the child's social integration and to prepare the child for independent living and economic self-sufficiency.

(6) Preservation of the child's ethnic and religious heritage.

(c) A State, or its designee under section 400.117 of this part, must review the continuing appropriateness of each unaccompanied minor's living arrangement and services no less frequently than every 6 months.
