
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 400 - REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Refugee Social Services
###### Scope of Refugee Social Services
####### § 400.156 Service requirements.

(a) In order to avoid interference with refugee employment, English language instruction and vocational training funded under this part must be provided to the fullest extent feasible outside normal working hours.

(b) In planning and providing services under §§ 400.154 and 400.155, a State must take into account those services which a resettlement agency is required to provide for a refugee whom it sponsors in order to ensure the provision of seamless, coordinated services to refugees that are not duplicative.

(c) English language instruction funded under this part must be provided in a concurrent, rather than sequential, time period with employment or with other employment-related services.

(d) Services funded under this part must be refugee-specific services which are designed specifically to meet refugee needs and are in keeping with the rules and objectives of the refugee program, except that vocational or job skills training, on-the-job training, or English language training need not be refugee-specific.

(e) Services funded under this part must be provided to the maximum extent feasible in a manner that is culturally and linguistically compatible with a refugee's language and cultural background.

(f) Services funded under this part must be provided to the maximum extent feasible in a manner that includes the use of bilingual/bicultural women on service agency staffs to ensure adequate service access by refugee women.

(g) A family self-sufficiency plan must be developed for anyone who receives employment-related services funded under this part.
