
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 400 - REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart J - Federal Funding
###### Federal Funding for Expenditures for Determining Eligibility and Providing Assistance and Services
####### ยง 400.211 Methodology to be used to determine time-eligibility of refugees.

(a) The time-eligibility period for refugee cash assistance and refugee medical assistance will be determined by the Director each year, based on appropriated funds available for the fiscal year. The Director will make a determination of the eligibility period each year as soon as possible after funds are appropriated for the refugee program, and also at subsequent points during the fiscal year, only if a reduction in the eligibility period is indicated, based on updated information on refugee flows and State reports on receipt of assistance and expenditures. The method to be used to determine the RCA/RMA eligibility period will include the following steps and will be applied to various RCA/RMA time-eligibility periods in order to determine the time-eligibility period which will provide the most number of months without incurring a shortfall in funds for the fiscal year.

(1) The time-eligibility population for the projected fiscal year will be estimated on the basis of the refugee admissions ceiling established by the President for that fiscal year and the anticipated arrival of other persons eligible for refugee assistance, to the extent that data on these persons are available. The anticipated pattern of refugee flow for the projected fiscal year will be estimated based on the best available historical and current refugee flow information that will most accurately forecast the refugee flow for the projected fiscal year. These arrival figures will then be used to determine the time-eligible population for a given duration of RCA/RMA benefits.

(2) The average annual number of RCA and RMA recipients will be determined by multiplying the estimated time-eligible population established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section by the estimated RCA and RMA participation rates. The RMA participation rate will take into account both RCA recipients, who are also eligible for RMA, and RMA-only recipients. Recipient data from quarterly performance reports submitted by States for the most recent 4 quarters for which reports are available will be used to determine the appropriate participation rates for various RCA/RMA time-eligibility periods.

(3) The average annual per recipient cost for RCA and RMA will be estimated separately, based on estimated per recipient costs for the most recent fiscal year, using available data, and inflated for the projected fiscal year using projected increases in per capita cash assistance costs for RCA and per capita Medicaid costs for RMA.

(4) The expected average number of RCA recipients will be multiplied by the expected RCA per recipient cost to derive estimated RCA costs. The expected average annual number of RMA recipients will be multiplied by the expected RMA per recipient cost to derive estimated RMA costs.

(5) State administrative costs for the projected fiscal year for all States in the aggregate will be estimated based on total actual allowable expenditures for State administration for the most recent fiscal year. The variable portion of administrative costs will be adjusted for changes in program participation and inflated by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all items as estimated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The fixed portion of administrative costs will be adjusted by the CPI inflator only.

(6) The total estimated costs for the projected fiscal year will equal the combined estimated costs for RCA, RMA, and State administration as calculated in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(b) If, as the Director determines, the period of eligibility needs to be changed from the eligibility period in effect at the time, the Director will publish a final notice in theannouncing the new period of eligibility for refugee cash assistance and refugee medical assistance and the effective date for implementing the new eligibility period. States will be given as much notice as available funds will allow without resulting in a further reduction in the eligibility period. At a minimum, States will be given 30 days' notice.
