
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle A - Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General Administration
#### PART 73 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart J - Provisions Relating to Experts, Consultants and Advisory Committee Members
###### § 73.735-1002 Ethical standards of conduct.

(a) Like other Federal employees, an individual serving in a consultant capacity must conduct himself or herself according to ethical behavior standards of the highest order. In particular, such an individual must:

(1) Refrain from any use of office which is, or appears to be, motivated by a private gain for himself or herself or other persons, particularly those with whom he or she has family, business, or financial ties. The fact that desired gain, if it materializes, will not take place at the expense of the Government makes his or her actions no less improper.

(2) Conduct himself or herself in a manner devoid of any suggestion that he or she is exploiting Government employment for private advantage. A consultant must not, on the basis of any inside information, enter into any speculation or recommend speculation to members of his or her family or business associates, in commodities, land, or the securities of any private company. This injunction applies even though the consultant's duties have no connection whatever with the Government programs or activities which may affect the value of such commodities, land, or securities. He or she should be careful in all personal financial activities to avoid any appearance of acting on the basis of information obtained in the course of his or her Government work.

(3) Refrain from using information not generally available to those outside the Government for the special benefit of a business or other entity by which the consultant is employed or retained or in which he or she has a financial interest. Information not available to private industry should remain confidential in the consultant's hands and not be divulged to his or her private employer or clients. In cases of doubt whether information is generally available to the public, the consultant should confer with the person for whom he or she provides services, with the office having functional responsibility for a specific type of information, or, as appropriate, with the officials designated in § 73.735-202 to give interpretive and advisory service.

(4) Where requested by a private enterprise to act for it in a consultant or advisory capacity and the request appears motivated by the desire for inside information, make a choice between acceptance of the tendered private employment and continuation of his or her Government consultancy. He or she may not engage in both.

(5) Not use his or her position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, anyone to provide a financial benefit to him or her or another person, particularly one with whom the consultant has family, business, or financial ties.

(6) Not receive or solicit anything of value as a gift, gratuity, loan, entertainment, or favor for himself or herself or another person, particularly one with whom he or she has family, business, or financial ties if the acceptance would result in loss of complete independence or impartiality in serving the Government. All consultants are subject to the restrictions in § 73.735-506 of this part concerning gifts and decorations from foreign governments.

(b) Consultants may engage in other employment so long as there is no real or apparent conflict between the consultant's private employment and his or her official duties. See § 73.735 Subpart G. The regular employment of a consultant who is a special Government employee is not considered outside work for purposes of Subpart G. Also, the limitation in § 73.735-701(f) regarding the amount of an honorarium that may be received does not apply to special Government employees.

(c) A consultant who has questions about conflicts of interest or the application of the regulations in this part to him or her or to his or her assigned work should make inquiry of the person for whom services are provided. That person may direct the consultant to the Department Ethics Counselor or a deputy ethics counselor for interpretative and advisory services as provided in § 73.735-202.
