
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 402 - STATE LEGALIZATION IMPACT ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Use of Funds
###### § 402.11 Limitations on Use of SLIAG Funds.

(a) Funds provided under this part may be used only for SLIAG-reimbursable activities that-

(1) Meet the definitions of § 402.2 of this part; and

(2) Are otherwise consistent with the rules and procedures governing such activities.

(b) Funds provided under this part may not be used for costs to the extent that those costs are otherwise reimbursed or paid for under other Federal programs.

(c) The amount of reimbursement or payment may not exceed 100% of SLIAG-related costs, as defined in this part, associated with SLIAG-reimbursable activites.

(d) A State must use a minimum of 10 percent of its allotment under this part in any fiscal year for costs associated with each of the following program categories: public assistance, public health assistance, and educational services. In the event that a State does not require use of a full 10% in one of the above categories, it must allocate the unused portion equally among the remaining categories listed in this paragraph.

(e) Payments for educational services in any fiscal year may not exceed the amounts described in (e) (3), (4) and (5) of this section, and are subject to the limitations in (e) (1), (2), and (6) of this section.

(1) Payments may be made to a local educational agency in a fiscal year for the purpose of providing educational services to eligible legalized aliens enrolled in elementary or secondary school only if 500 eligible legalized aliens meeting the conditions in (e)(2) of this section, are enrolled in elementary or secondary public or non-public schools in that local educational agency's jurisdiction in that fiscal year or if such eligible legalized aliens represent at least 3 percent of the total number of students enrolled in elementary or secondary public or non-public schools within that local educational agency's jurisdiction in that fiscal year.

(2) In computing payments to local education agencies or to providers of educational services described in section 204(c)(3)(C) of the Act, State educational agencies may take into account only eligible legalized aliens who have been enrolled in elementary or secondary school, public or non-public school or in educational activities for adults described in § 402.2 in the United States for fewer than three complete academic years.

(3) The amount that may be paid in any fiscal year to a local educational agency with respect to eligible legalized aliens enrolled in elementary and secondary public or non-public school may not exceed an amount equal to $500 (less, in States receiving Emergency Immigrant Education Act (EIEA) funds, the amount described in (e)(6) of this section) multiplied by the number of eligible legalized aliens meeting the criteria specified in (e)(2) of this section, who are enrolled in public or private non-profit elementary and secondary schools in the jurisdiction of that local educational agency in that fiscal year.

(4) The amount that may be paid in any fiscal year to a local educational agency or other provider of educational services for adults (who are not enrolled in elementary or secondary school), as described in section 204(c)(3)(C) of the Act, may not exceed an amount equal to $500 multiplied by the number of eligible legalized aliens meeting the criteria in paragraph (e)(2) of this section who receive educational services from that provider in that fiscal year.

(5) In no event may the amount paid to a local education agency or other provider of educational services exceed the actual costs of providing those services to eligible legalized aliens, as determined in accordance with 45 CFR part 74 (for grants awarded in FY 1988) or 45 CFR part 92 (for grants awarded in FY 1989 and succeeding fiscal years).

(6) The maximum amount of payment to a local educational agency with respect to eligible legalized aliens enrolled in elementary and secondary school will be reduced from the amount described in (e)(3) of this section, by an amount equal to the amount of funds received by the local educational agency with respect to such eligible legalized aliens pursuant to section 606 of the Emergency Immigrant Education Act.

(f) Funds provided under this part may not be used to provide assistance under the programs of financial assistance from which eligible legalized aliens are barred by section 245A(h)(1), 210(f), or 210A(d)(6) of the INA. However, such funds may be used for the State and local share of the costs of providing such assistance to eligible legalized aliens who are excepted from the bar by section 245A(h) (2) or (3), 210(f), or 210A(d)(6) of the INA, provided that such individuals are otherwise eligible for benefits under such programs, and that the costs of providing those benefits are otherwise allowable under the Act, this regulation, and the State's approved application.

(g) Funds provided under this part shall not be used to perform abortions except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carrier to term.

(h) Funds provided under this part shall not be used to reimburse or pay costs inurred by any public or private entity or any individual, in the conduct of a medical examination as required for application for adjustment to lawful temporary resident status under 8 CFR 245a.2(i), 8 CFR 210.2(d), or 8 CFR 210a.6(f).

(i) Funds provided under this part shall not be used for client counselling or any other service which would assume responsibility for the adjustment of status of aliens to that of lawful temporary or permanent residence. This prohibition includes assisting an alien to appeal INS decisions or representation of an alien before any administrative or judicial body.

(j) Funds under this part shall not be used to investigate or prosecute discrimination complaints beyond initial intake and referral, to pay legal fees or other expenses incurred to provide legal counsel to a party alleging discrimination, or to represent such parties before any administrative or judicial body.

(k) A State may use funds to make payments for Phase II outreach activities, including related program administration, from allotments made to it under this part for FY 1989 and succeeding fiscal years. The maximum amount that a State may use for this purpose from a fiscal year's allotment is the greater of 1% of its allotment for that fiscal year or $100,000.

(l) A State may use funds to make payments for employment discrimination education and outreach activities, including related program administration, from allotments made to it under this part for FY 1989 and succeeding fiscal years. The maximum amount that a State may use from a fiscal year's allotment for this purpose is the greater of 1% of the State's allotment for that fiscal year or $100,000.

(m) [Reserved]

(n)(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (n)(2) of this section, a State may use SLIAG funds alloted to it for a fiscal year to reimburse or pay only those SLIAG-related costs for employment discrimination education and outreach activities which occurred after approval by the Department of an application or amendment describing those activities, as required by § 402.41(d).

(2) Costs incurred in FY 1990 prior to approval by the Department of an application or amendment containing the information required by § 402.41(d), but after December 18, 1989, for reproduction and dissemination of public information material certified by the Office of the Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices, Department of Justice (hereafter, "Office of the Special Counsel"), pursuant to paragraph (o) of this section may be reimbursed with funds allotted under this part.

(o)(1) With respect to employment discrimination education and outreach, a State shall not use SLIAG funds to pay for the cost of producing or distributing materials prepared for public dissemination unless the Office of the Special Counsel has certified that those materials meet the criteria in paragraph (o)(2) of this section.

(2) Certification of materials described in paragraph (o)(1) of this section shall consist of a finding by the Office of the Special Counsel that information contained in such materials relating to the discrimination provision of the Act is legally accurate and that those materials include reference to the Office of the Special Counsel as a source of information and referral for complaints of discrimination based on citizenship status or national origin. Information regarding the Office of the Special Counsel shall include its address and telephone number, including the toll-free number and toll-free TDD number for the hearing impaired. The Office of the Special Counsel, in the exercise of discretion, may agree to the deletion of any portion of the information referenced in the previous sentence, in those instances where space limitations in printed materials, or time limitations in electronically recorded materials, make inclusion of all the required information impractical.

(p) Funds provided under this part may be used only for SLIAG-related costs submitted to the Department pursuant to § 402.51 and accepted as allowable costs by March 15, 1995.

(q) Funds made available to a State pursuant to § 402.34 shall be utilized by the State to reimburse all allowable costs within 90 days after such State has received a reallocation of funds from the Secretary, but in no event later than July 31, 1995.
