
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 402 - STATE LEGALIZATION IMPACT ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart E - State Applications
###### ยง 402.41 Application content.

A State application must:

(a) Contain certifications by the chief executive officer or an individual specifically designated to make such certifications on behalf of the chief executive officer that, notwithstanding other contents of the application, the State assures that:

(1) Funds allotted to the State will be used only to carry out the purposes described in the Act and this part.

(2) The State will provide a fair method for the allocation of funds among State and local agencies (as determined by the State) in accordance with the information in the application as required under (b) and (c) of this section and in accordance with the provisions of ยง 402.11(d) of this part, which sets forth minimum funding levels for program categories.

(3) Fiscal control and accounting procedures used in the administration of SLIAG funds will be established that are adequate to meet the requirements established by the Act and this regulation.

(4) The State will comply with the prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, on the basis of handicap under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, on the basis of sex under title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, on the basis of race, color, or national origin under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and on the basis of sex or religion under section 204(h)(1)(B) of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.

(b) Contain information on the number of eligible legalized aliens residing in the State. A State may either (1) adopt as its official State-level estimate the estimate of the State's number of eligible legalized aliens provided by the Department, or (2) provide its own estimate, including detailed information on the method and data used in deriving the estimate. If a State has previously provided this information to the Department, it need not be included in the application unless the information has changed.

(c) Contain an estimate of likely SLIAG-related costs for the fiscal year for which application is being made for each program or activity in which SLIAG-related costs will be incurred. Programs and activities must be identified by the purposes listed in ยง 402.10(a). Such estimates for FY 1988 should include, as a discrete subset, costs incurred in FY 1987, pursuant to ยง 402.12.

(d) Contain the following information pertaining to the estimates required by paragraph (c) of this section (the application must include sufficient detail to permit assessment by the Department of the reasonableness of such estimates and the allowability of such costs under the Act and this part):

(1)(i) Descriptions of the programs and activities for which SLIAG-related costs will be incurred; and,

(ii) If a State elects to use its allotment for employment discrimination education and outreach, a description of the State's planned education and outreach activities, including: descriptions of the kinds of government or private agencies or other entities, if any, through which these activities will be conducted; brief descriptions of the targeted audience(s) for these activities; and, preproduction copies or the text of any material intended for distribution to the public to be produced or disseminated with SLIAG funds, if available at the time the application is submitted.

(2) Descriptions of the methodologies used to determine SLIAG-related cost. This description is to include (i) the methodology used in determining the proportion (or actual number) of eligible legalized aliens who are likely to participate in or benefit from the program or service, and (ii) a description of how a unit or other measure of the cost of providing services or benefits was calculated, or, if the estimate is based on actual cost data, a description of how the data were obtained. For SLIAG administrative costs, Phase II outreach, and employment discrimination education and outreach, the descriptions must instead include the basis for the estimate of SLIAG-related costs, as defined in this part.

(e) Contain information on the criteria for and administrative methods of disbursing funds received under this part.

(f) Designate a single point of contact (SPOC) in the State responsible for securing and submitting information required by the Act and this regulation and provide the name, title, mailing address, and telephone number of such official. If the grantee agency is different from the SPOC, also provide the name, title, mailing address, and telephone number of the official in that agency responsible for State administration of funds available under this part. In either case, provide the employer identification number of the grantee agency. If the State elects to use SLIAG funds for employment discrimination education and outreach, it must also designate in its application a contact person for this activity, if different from the single point of contact.
