
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 402 - STATE LEGALIZATION IMPACT ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart E - State Applications
###### ยง 402.43 Application deadline.

(a) An application from a State for SLIAG funds for any Federal fiscal year except fiscal years 1993 and 1994 must be received by the Department by October 1 of that fiscal year. Applications for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 must be received by July 1, 1992, and July 1, 1993, respectively. If a State fails to submit an application by this date, funds which it may otherwise have been eligible to receive shall be distributed among States submitting timely approved applications in accordance with ยง 402.33 of this part.

(b) In order to receive funds under this part, a State's application for any fiscal year except fiscal years 1993 and 1994 must be approvable by the Secretary by December 15 of that fiscal year. Applications for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 must be approvable by the Secretary by September 15, 1992, and September 15, 1993, respectively. This may necessitate a State's providing clarification, revision, or additional material, as required, to render its application approvable by the Secretary. If a State fails to render its application approvable by the Secretary by these dates, funds which it may otherwise have been eligible to receive shall be distributed among States which have submitted approvable applications in accordance with ยง 402.32 of this part.
