
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 402 - STATE LEGALIZATION IMPACT ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart E - State Applications
###### ยง 402.44 Basis for approval.

(a) The Department will review each State's application to ensure that it contains all of the required assurances and information and otherwise is consistent with the Act and this part.

(b) The Department will assess the reasonableness of each State's estimates of SLIAG-related costs, as required by ยง 402.41(c) (1) and (2), based on the following:

(1) Are the activities for which estimates are included in the application allowable under the Act and this part?

(2) Are the rates of participation by eligible legalized aliens in the activities for which estimates of SLIAG-related costs are included in the application and other assumptions underlying the cost estimates based on reliable empirical data?

(3) To what extent are the estimates based on actual costs incurred? Are actual costs based on methodologies described in this part or other methodologies likely to result in valid measures of SLIAG-related costs?

(4) Do current estimates appear to be consistent with past estimates, known actual costs pursuant to ยง 402.41(c)(2), and current INS eligible legalized alien population data?

(5) Are revised estimates a result (all or in part) of changes in program activities?

(c) The Department will notify the State that (1) its application has been approved or (2) its application has been disapproved, together with the reasons for disapproval.

(d)(1) The Department will forward to the Office of Special Counsel information provided by a State pursuant to ยง 402.41(d).

(2) The Office of the Special Counsel will review information forwarded to it by the Department pursuant to paragraph (d) (1) of this section to determine whether the activities described therein conflict with or unnecessarily duplicate other employment discrimination education and outreach efforts. Certification to the Department by the Office of the Special Counsel that the State's submission meets this criterion is a prerequisite for approval by the Department.
