
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 402 - STATE LEGALIZATION IMPACT ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart F - Recordkeeping and Reporting
###### § 402.51 Reporting.

(a)(1) After the end of each Federal fiscal year through FY 1994 for which it received or during which it obligated or expended SLIAG funds and by the due date indicated below, a State must submit annual reports containing the information identified in (c) and (e) of this section. The reports are due no later than 90 days after the end of a Federal fiscal year.

(2) A State which receives funds pursuant to §§ 402.31 and 402.33 and which expends funds pursuant to § 402.26(b) must submit a report containing the information identified in paragraph (e) of this section. The report is due no later than December 29, 1994.

(b)(1) Failure to submit the annual report required in (a) of this section by the deadline, without prior written permission from the Secretary, constitutes a basis for withholding of SLIAG funds.

(2) Failure by a State to submit the required information prior to the calculation of allocations pursuant to Subpart D will result in the Secretary's including no SLIAG-related costs for the fiscal year for that State in the calculation of State allocations.

(c) A State's annual report must provide information on the status of each fiscal year's funds, as of September 30, for the fiscal year for funds received under §§ 402.31 and 402.33, including:

(1) Identification of the amount obligated and the amount expended by the State grantee agency;

(2) Identification of any amount remaining unobligated at the end of the fiscal year which the State intends to carry over to succeeding fiscal years; and,

(3) Identification of any amount remaining unobligated at the end of the fiscal year which the State does not desire to carry over to the succeeding fiscal year.

(d) A State must use SF-269 in its reporting under paragraph (c) of this section, but it may determine the format of its annual report content under paragraph (e) of this section.

(e)(1) For all years except fiscal years 1992 and 1993, a State's annual report must also provide the actual SLIAG-related costs incurred during the fiscal year. The report must provide, for each program or activity identified in the State's application, the amount of SLIAG-related costs, as defined in this part, incurred in that program or activity, identified as public assistance, public health assistance, educational services, Phase II outreach, employment discrimination education and outreach, and SLIAG administrative costs, as defined in this part, the amount of SLIAG funds obligated for that program or activity, and the time period for which the funds were obligated.

(2) The report must contain a description of the methodology used to determine actual SLIAG-related costs, if different from the description provided in the State's application pursuant to § 402.41 (d) (2) of this part.

(3) Federal and State costs of providing assistance under a State plan approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act to aliens whose status has been adjusted under sections 245A and 210A of the INA by virtue of the exceptions to the bar to Medicaid eligibility (sections 245A (h) (2) and (3) of the INA) must be shown separately in States' reports.

(4) For fiscal years 1992 and 1993, a State must report actual SLIAG-related costs, pursuant to paragraphs (e) (1), (2) and (3) of this section, for the first and second quarters, along with its application for SLIAG funding for fiscal years 1993 and 1994, respectively, in accordance with § 402.43(a) of this part, and for the third and fourth quarters in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
