
# Title 45 - Public Welfare
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
### Chapter IV - Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services
#### PART 411 - STANDARDS TO PREVENT, DETECT, AND RESPOND TO SEXUAL ABUSE AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT INVOLVING UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN
##### Subpart A - Coverage
###### ยง 411.10 Coverage of ORR care provider facilities.

(a) This part applies to all ORR care provider facilities except secure care provider facilities and traditional foster care homes. Secure care provider facilities must, instead, follow the Department of Justice's National Standards to Prevent, Detect, and Respond to Prison Rape, 28 CFR part 115. Traditional foster care homes are not subject to this part.

(b) Emergency care provider facilities are subject to every section in this part except:

(1) Section 411.22(c);

(2) Section 411.71(b)(4);

(3) Section 411.101(b);

(4) Section 411.102(c), (d), and (e); and

(5) Subpart L.

(c) Emergency care provider facilities must implement the standards in this rule, excluding the standards listed above, within fifteen (15) days of opening. The Director, however, may, using unreviewable discretion, waive or modify specific sections for a particular emergency care provider facility for good cause. Good cause would only be found in cases where the temporary nature of the emergency care provider facility makes compliance with the provision impracticable or impossible, and the Director determines that the emergency care provider facility could not, without substantial difficulty, meet the provision in the absence of the waiver or modification.

(d) For the purposes of this part, the terms related to sexual abuse and sexual harassment refer specifically to the sexual abuse or sexual harassment of a UC that occurs at an ORR care provider facility while in ORR care and custody. Incidents of past sexual abuse or sexual harassment or sexual abuse or sexual harassment that occurs in any other context other than in ORR care and custody are not within the scope of this regulation.
