
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 50 - Public Contracts, Department of Labor
#### PART 50-210 - STATEMENTS OF GENERAL POLICY AND INTERPRETATION NOT DIRECTLY RELATED TO REGULATIONS
##### ยง 50-210.0 General enforcement policy.

(a) In order to clarify at this time the practices and policies which will guide the administration and enforcement of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (52 Stat 1060, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 201-219), and the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act (49 Stat. 2036, as amended; 41 U.S.C. 35-45), as affected by the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947 (Pub. L. 49, 80th Cong.), the following policy is announced effective June 30, 1947:

(b) The investigation, inspection and enforcement activities of all officers and agencies of the Department of Labor as they relate to the Fair Labor Standards Act (52 Stat. 1060, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 201-219) and the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act of June 30, 1936 (49 Stat. 2036, as amended; 41 U.S.C. 35-45), will be carried out on the basis that all employers in all industries whose activities are subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (52 Stat. 1060, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201-219) or the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act (49 Stat. 2036, as amended; 41 U.S.C. 35-45) are responsible for strict compliance with the provisions thereof and the regulations issued pursuant thereto.

(c) Any statements, orders, or instructions inconsistent herewith are rescinded.
