
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 101-5 - CENTRALIZED SERVICES IN FEDERAL BUILDINGS AND COMPLEXES
###### Subpart 101-5.3 - Federal Employee Health Services
####### ยง 101-5.303 Guiding principles.
######## et seq.

(c) Treatment and medical care in performance-of-duty cases will be provided to employees as set forth in the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (5 U.S.C. 751).

(d) Reimbursable costs for providing health services will be based on an operating budget which is a summary of all costs required to operate the health service. The reimbursement cost is prorated to participating agencies by means of a per capital formula computed by dividing the operating budget of the health service by the total number of employees sponsored for service. The size of the Federal population served, the compensation of the employees of the health unit, and other factors of medical economics prevalent in the area are factors which affect the local reimbursement cost. Further, in appropriate cases where more than one health unit is servicing employees housed in the same general locality, costs may be equalized by combining the operating budgets of all such units and dividing the total of the operating budgets by the number of employees sponsored. Special industrial conditions or other abnormal health or accident risk environments may increase the per capita cost.
