
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 101-6 - MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart 101-6.2 - Nondiscrimination in Programs Receiving Federal Financial Assistance
####### § 101-6.203 Application of subpart.

(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to any program for which Federal financial assistance is authorized under a law administered in whole or in part by GSA, including the laws listed in § 101-6.217. It applies to money paid, property transferred, or other Federal financial assistance extended to any such program after the effective date of this subpart pursuant to an application approved prior to such effective date. This subpart does not apply to (1) Any Federal financial assistance by way of insurance or guaranty contracts, (2) money paid, property transferred, or other assistance extended to any such program before the effective date of this subpart, except to the extent otherwise provided by contract, (3) any assistance to any individual who is the ultimate beneficiary under any such program, or (4) any employment practice, under any such program, of any employer, employment agency, or labor organization, except to the extent described in § 101-6.204-2(d). The fact that a statute which authorizes GSA to extend Federal financial assistance to a program or activity is not listed in § 101-6.217 shall not mean, if title VI of the Act is otherwise applicable, that such program is not covered. Other statutes now in force or hereinafter enacted may be added to this list by notice published in the

(b) The regulations issued by the following Departments pursuant to title VI of the Act shall be applicable to Federal financial assistance of the kind indicated, and those Departments shall respectively be responsible for determining and enforcing compliance therewith:

(1) Department of Health, Education, and Welfare-donation or transfer of surplus property for purposes of education or public health (§ 101-6.217 (a)(2) and (b)).

(2) Department of Defense-donation of surplus personal property for purposes of civil defense (§ 101-6.217(a)(2)).

(3) Department of Transportation-donation of property for public airport purposes (§ 101-6.217(c)). GSA will, however, be responsible for obtaining such assurances as may be required in applications and in instruments effecting the transfer of property.

(4) Department of the Interior-disposal of surplus real property, including improvements, for use as a public park, public recreational area, or historic monument (§ 101-6.217(d) (1) and (2)). GSA will, however, be responsible for obtaining such assurances as may be required in applications and in instruments effecting the transfer of property for use as a historic monument.

(5) Department of Housing and Urban Development-disposal of surplus real property for use in the provision of rental or cooperative housing to be occupied by families or individuals of low or moderate income (§ 101-6.217(q)).

(c) Each Department named in paragraph (b) of this section shall keep GSA advised of all compliance and enforcement actions, including sanctions imposed or removed, taken by it with respect to the types of Federal financial assistance specified in paragraph (b) of this section to which the regulations of such Department apply.
