
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 101-6 - MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart 101-6.2 - Nondiscrimination in Programs Receiving Federal Financial Assistance
####### § 101-6.213-7 Post termination proceedings.

(a) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under § 101-6.213-6 shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with this subpart and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this subpart. An elementary or secondary school or school system which is unable to file an assurance of compliance with § 101-6.24 shall be restored to full eligibility to receive financial assistance if it files a court order or a plan for desegregation meeting the requirements of § 101-6.205-3 and provides reasonable assurance that it will comply with this court order or plan.

(b) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to § 101-6.213-6 may at any time request the responsible GSA official to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. If the responsible GSA official determines that those requirements have been satisfied, he shall restore such eligibility.

(c) If the responsible GSA official denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request, in writing, for a hearing, specifying why it believes such official to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the responsible GSA official. The applicant or recipient will be restored to such eligibility if it proves at such a hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. While proceedings under this section are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under § 101-6.213-6 shall remain in effect.
