
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 101-6 - MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart 101-6.2 - Nondiscrimination in Programs Receiving Federal Financial Assistance
####### ยง 101-6.217 Laws authorizing Federal financial assistance for programs to which this subpart applies.
######## l,l

(j) Donation of surplus property to the American National Red Cross (section 203() of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 484()).

(k) Provision by the General Services Administration of free space and utilities for vending stands operated by blind persons (section 1 of the Randolph-Sheppard Act, 20 U.S.C. 107).

(l) Donation of forfeited distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages to eleemosynary institutions (26 U.S.C. 5688).

(m) Donation of surplus Federal records (Federal Records Disposal Act of 1943, 44 U.S.C. 366-380).

(n) Grants to State and local agencies and to nonprofit organizations and institutions for the collecting, describing, preserving and compiling, and publishing of documentary sources significant to the history of the United States (section 503 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended by Pub. L. 88-383).

(o) Loan of machine tools and industrial manufacturing equipment in the national industrial reserve to nonprofit educational institutions or training schools (section 7 of the National Industrial Reserve Act of 1948, 50 U.S.C. 456).

(p) District of Columbia grant-in-aid hospital program (60 Stat. 896, as amended).

(q) Disposal of surplus real property for use in the provision of rental or cooperative housing to be occupied by families or individuals of low or moderate income (section 414 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969, Pub. L. 91-152).

(r) Payments in lieu of taxes on certain real property transferred from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (Title VII of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 521-524).

(s) Conveyance of certain lands and property to the State of Hawaii without reimbursement (Pub. L. 88-233, 77 Stat. 472).
