
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 101-6 - MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart 101-6.5 - Code of Ethics for Government Service
####### ยง 101-6.500 Scope of subpart.

(a) In accordance with Public Law 96-303, the requirements of this section shall apply to all executive agencies (as defined by section 105 of title 5, United States Code), the United States Postal Service, and the Postal Rate Commission. The heads of these agencies shall be responsible for ensuring that the requirements of this section are observed and complied with within their respective agencies.

(b) Each agency, as defined in "(a)" above, shall display in appropriate areas of buildings in which at least 20 individuals are regularly employed by an agency as civilian employees, copies of the Code of Ethics for Government Service (Code).

(c) For Government-owned or wholly leased buildings subject to the requirements of this section, at least one copy of the Code shall be conspicuously displayed, normally in the lobby of the main entrance to the building. For other buildings subject to the requirements of this section which are owned, leased, or otherwise provided to the Federal Government for the purpose of performing official business, at least one copy of the Code shall be conspicuously displayed within the space occupied by the Government. In all cases, additional copies of the Code may be displayed in other appropriate building locations, such as auditoriums, bulletin boards, cafeterias, locker rooms, reception areas, and other high-traffic areas.

(d) Agencies of the Federal Government shall not pay any costs for the printing, framing, or other preparation of the Code. Agencies may properly pay incidental expenses, such as the cost of hardware, other materials, and labor incurred to display the Code. Display shall be consistent with the decor and architecture of the building space. Installation shall cause no permanent damage to stonework or other surfaces which are difficult to maintain or repair.

(e) Agencies may obtain copies of the Code by submitting a requisition for National Stock Number (NSN) 7690-01-099-8167 in Fedstrip format to the GSA regional office responsible for providing support to the requisitioning agency. Agencies will be charged a nominal fee to cover shipping and handling.
