
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 101-6 - MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart 101-6.21 - Intergovernmental Review of General Services Administration Programs and Activities
####### § 101-6.2109 How does the Administrator receive and respond to comments?

(a) The Administrator follows the procedures in § 101-6.2110 if:

(1) A State office or official is designated to act as a single point of contact between a State process and all Federal agencies, and

(2) That office or official transmits a State process recommendation for a program selected under § 101-6.2106.

(b)(1) The single point of contact is not obligated to transmit comments from State, areawide, regional or local officials and entities where there is no State process recommendation.

(2) If a State process recommendation is transmitted by a single point of contact, all comments from State, areawide, regional, and local officials and entities that differ from it must also be transmitted.

(c) If a State has not established a process, or is unable to submit a State process recommendation, State, areawide, regional and local officials and entities may submit comments to GSA.

(d) If a program or activity is not selected for a State process, State, areawide, regional and local officials and entities may submit comments to GSA. In addition, if a State process recommendation for a nonselected program or activity is transmitted to GSA by the single point of contact, the Administrator follows the procedures of § 101-6.2110 of this part.

(e) The Administrator considers comments which do not constitute a State process recommendation submitted under these regulations, and for which the Administrator is not required to apply the procedures of § 101-6.2110 of this part, when such comments are provided by a single point of contact, or directly to GSA by a commenting party.
