
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 101-8 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN PROGRAMS RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
###### Subpart 101-8.7 - Discrimination Prohibited on the Basis of Age
####### ยง 101-8.717 Mediation.

(a) GSA promptly refers to the mediation agency designated by the Secretary, HHS, all sufficient complaints that:

(1) Fall within the jurisdiction of the Act and this regulation, unless the age distinction complained of is clearly within an exception; and

(2) Contain the information needed for further processing.

(b) Both the complainant and the recipient must participate in the mediation process to the extent necessary to reach an agreement or make an informed judgement that an agreement is not possible. Both parties need not meet with the mediator at the same time.

(c) If the complainant and the recipient agree, the mediator will prepare a written statement of the agreement and have the complainant and the recipient sign it. The mediator must send a copy of the agreement to GSA. GSA takes no further action on the complaint unless the complainant or the recipient fails to comply with the agreement.

(d) The mediator must protect the confidentiality of all information obtained in the course of the mediation. No mediator may testify in any adjudicative proceeding, produce any document, or otherwise disclose any information obtained in the course of the mediation process without prior approval of the head of the mediation agency.

(e) The mediation proceeds for a maximum of 60 calendar days after a complaint is filed with GSA. Mediation ends if:

(1) 60 calendar days elapse from the time the complaint is filed; or

(2) Before the end of the 60 calendar-day period an agreement is reached; or

(3) Before the end of that 60 calendar-day period, the mediator finds that an agreement cannot be reached.

(f) The mediator must return unresolved complaints to GSA.
