
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-2 - COMMITTEE FOR PURCHASE FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE BLIND OR SEVERELY DISABLED
##### ยง 51-2.4 Determination of suitability.
###### Level of impact on the current contractor for the commodity or service.

(4)(i) In deciding whether or not a proposed addition to the Procurement List is likely to have a severe adverse impact on the current contractor for the specific commodity or service, the Committee gives particular attention to:

(A) The possible impact on the contractor's total sales, including the sales of affiliated companies and parent corporations. In addition, the Committee considers the effects of previous Committee actions.

(B) Whether that contractor has been a continuous supplier to the Government of the specific commodity or service proposed for addition and is, therefore, more dependent on the income from such sales to the Government.

(ii) If there is not a current contract for the commodity or service being proposed for addition to the Procurement List, the Committee may consider the most recent contractor to furnish the item to the Government as the current contractor for the purpose of determining the level of impact.

(b) In determining the suitability of a commodity or service for addition to the Procurement List, the Committee also considers other information it deems pertinent, including comments on a proposal published in theto add the commodity or service to the Procurement List and information submitted by Government personnel and interested persons. Because the Committee's authority to establish fair market prices is separate from its authority to determine the suitability of a commodity or service for addition to the Procurement List, the Committee does not consider comments on proposed fair market prices for commodities and services proposed for addition to the Procurement List to be pertinent to a suitability determination.
