
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 101-8 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN PROGRAMS RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
###### Subpart 101-8.7 - Discrimination Prohibited on the Basis of Age
####### ยง 101-8.720 Compliance procedure.

(a) GSA may enforce the Act and these regulations through:

(1) Termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from GSA under the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Act or this regulation. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge.

(2) Any other means authorized by law including, but not limited to:

(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceeding to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations of the recipients created by the Act or this regulation, or

(ii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State, or local government agency that has the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or this regulation.

(b) GSA limits any termination to the particular recipient and program or activity or part of such program or activity GSA finds in violation of this regulation. GSA does not base any part of a termination on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient that does not receive Federal financial assistance from GSA.

(c) GSA takes no action under paragraph (a) until:

(1) The administrator advises the recipient of its failure to comply with the Act and this regulation and determines that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained, and

(2) 30 calendar days elapse after the Administrator sends a written report of the grounds of the action to the committees of Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the program or activity involved. The Administrator files a report if any action is taken under paragraph (a) of this section .

(d) GSA may also defer granting new Federal financial assistance from GSA to a recipient when a hearing under ยง 101-8.721 is initiated.

(1) New Federal financial assistance from GSA includes all assistance for which GSA requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities, or authorization of new activities, during the deferral period. New Federal financial assistance from GSA does not include assistance approved before the beginning of a hearing.

(2) GSA does not begin a deferral until the recipient receives notice of an opportunity for a hearing under ยง 101-8.721. GSA does not continue a deferral for more than 60 calendar days unless a hearing begins within that time or the time for beginning the hearing is extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the Administrator. GSA does not continue a deferral for more than 30 calendar days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.

(3) GSA limits any deferral to the particular recipient and program or activity or part of such program or activity GSA finds in violation of these regulations. GSA does not base any part of a deferral on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not, and would not, receive Federal financial assistance from GSA.
