
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 101-8 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN PROGRAMS RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
###### Subpart 101-8.7 - Discrimination Prohibited on the Basis of Age
####### ยง 101-8.722 Decisions and notices.
######## Review in certain cases by the Administrator.

(e)If the Administrator has not personally made the final decision referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, a recipient or applicant or the counsel for GSA may request the Administrator to review a decision of the Reviewing Authority in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the responsible GSA official. Such review is not a matter of right and shall be granted only where the Administrator determines there are special and important reasons therefor. The Administrator may grant or deny such request, in whole or in part. He or she may also review such a decision in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the responsible GSA official. In the absence of a review under this paragraph, a final decision referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) of this section shall become the final decision of GSA when the Administrator transmits it as such to Congressional committees with the report required under section 602 of the Act. Failure of an applicant or recipient to file an exception with the Reviewing Authority or to request review under this paragraph shall not be deemed a failure to exhaust administrative remedies for the purpose of obtaining judicial review.
