
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-25 - GENERAL
###### Subpart 101-25.1 - General Policies
####### ยง 101-25.109-1 Identification of idle equipment.

(a) The provisions of this ยง 101-25.109-1 apply to all Federal laboratories regardless of size.

(b) Inspection tours of Federal laboratories shall be conducted on a scheduled basis, annually, if feasible, but no less than every 2 years, for the purpose of identifying idle and unneeded laboratory and research equipment. Following each tour, a report of findings shall be prepared by the inspection team and, as determined by the agency head or his designee, submitted to the head of the laboratory or to a higher agency official having laboratories management responsibility. Equipment identified by the inspection team as idle or unneeded shall be reassigned as needed within the laboratory, placed in an equipment pool, or declared excess and made available to other agencies in accordance with part 101-43.

(c) Laboratory inspection teams shall be comprised of senior program management, property management, and scientific personnel who are familiar with the plans and programs of the laboratory(ies) and who have a knowledge of laboratory and research equipment utilization. As determined by the agency head or his designee, members of an inspection team shall be appointed by either the head of the laboratory or a higher agency official having laboratories management responsibility.

(d) The agency head or his designee shall ensure compliance by responsible personnel with the requirements of this ยง 101-25.109-1 and shall require that periodic independent reviews of walk-through procedures employed in Federal laboratories under his control be conducted to determine their effectiveness and to effect modifications as appropriate.
