
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-25 - GENERAL
###### Subpart 101-25.1 - General Policies
####### ยง 101-25.111 Environmental impact policy.

(a) From time to time, Congress enacts legislation pertaining to the protection and enhancement of the Nation's environment; e.g., the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321). The objective of such legislation is, among other things, the improvement of the relationship between people and their environment and the lessening of hazards affecting their health and safety. It is the policy of the General Services Administration to appropriately implement the various provisions of these Acts of Congress as fully as statutory authority permits in support of the national policy.

(b) With respect to the procurement, management, and disposal of personal property, the implementation of national environmental policy is provided through amendments to the regulations of GSA, changes to Federal specifications and standards documents, as appropriate, and other actions as may be required when expediency is of prime importance. Further, the Federal regulatory agencies have imposed restrictions applicable to the procurement, use, and disposal of items supplied through the Federal supply system that are known to contain components or possess qualities that have an adverse impact on the environment or that result in creating unsafe or unhealthy working conditions. Each agency, therefore, shall take action as necessary to ensure that the objectives and directives of the National Environmental Policy Act, other environmental statutes, and applicable regulations are met; especially the directive that environmental concerns, effects, and values shall be given appropriate consideration with economic and technical issues in decisionmaking. Action should include a continuing review of theand issuances promulgated by the Federal regulatory agencies for guidance applicable to the procurement, use, and disposal of items that are known to contain components or to possess qualities that have an adverse impact on the environment or that result in creating unsafe or unhealthy working conditions.
