
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-2 - COMMITTEE FOR PURCHASE FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE BLIND OR SEVERELY DISABLED
##### ยง 51-2.9 Oral presentations by interested persons at Committee meetings.

(a) Upon written request from an interested person, that person may, at the discretion of the Committee Chair, be permitted to appear before the Committee to present views orally. Generally, only those persons who have raised significant issues which, if valid, could influence the Committee's decision in the matter under consideration will be permitted to appear.

(b) When the Chair has approved the appearance before the Committee of an interested person who has made a written request:

(1) The name of the spokesperson and the names of any other persons planning to appear shall be provided to the Committee staff by telephone at least three working days before the meeting.

(2) In the absence of prior authorization by the Chair, only one person representing a particular agency or organization will be permitted to speak.

(3) Oral statements to the Committee and written material provided in conjunction with the oral statements shall be limited to issues addressed in written comments which have previously been submitted to the Committee as the result of notice of proposed rulemaking in the

(4) Written material to be provided in conjunction with the oral presentation and an outline of the presentation shall be submitted to the Committee staff at least three working days before the meeting.

(c) The Committee may also invite other interested persons to make oral presentations at Committee meetings when it determines that these persons can provide information which will assist the Committee in making a decision on a proposed addition to the Procurement List. Terms of appearance of such persons shall be determined by the Chair.
