
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-3 - CENTRAL NONPROFIT AGENCIES
##### ยง 51-3.2 Responsibilities under the AbilityOne Program.

Each central nonprofit agency shall:

(a) Represent its participating nonprofit agencies in dealing with the Committee under the JWOD Act.

(b) Evaluate the qualifications and capabilities of its nonprofit agencies and provide the Committee with pertinent data concerning its nonprofit agencies, their status as qualified nonprofit agencies, their manufacturing or service capabilities, and other information concerning them required by the Committee.

(c) Obtain from Federal contracting activities such procurement information as is required by the Committee to:

(1) Determine the suitability of a commodity or service being recommended to the Committee for addition to the Procurement List; or

(2) Establish an initial fair market price for a commodity or service or make changes in the fair market price.

(d) Recommend to the Committee, with the supporting information required by Committee procedures, suitable commodities or services for procurement from its nonprofit agencies.

(e) Recommend to the Committee, with the supporting information required by Committee procedures, initial fair market prices for commodities or services proposed for addition to the Procurement List.

(f) Distribute within the policy guidelines of the Committee (by direct allocation, subcontract, or any other means) orders from Government activities among its nonprofit agencies.

(g) Maintain the necessary records and data on its nonprofit agencies to enable it to allocate orders equitably.

(h) Oversee and assist its nonprofit agencies to insure contract compliance in furnishing a commodity or a service.

(i) As market conditions change, recommend price changes with appropriate justification for assigned commodities or services on the Procurement List.

(j) Monitor and assist its nonprofit agencies to meet the statutory and regulatory requirements to fully participate in the program. Conduct assistance visits with its nonprofits as necessary and provide the Committee with the results and recommendations of such visits.

(k) When authorized by the Committee, enter into contracts with Federal contracting activities for the furnishing of commodities or services provided by its nonprofit agencies.

(l) At the time designated by the Committee, submit a completed, original copy of the appropriate Initial Certification (Committee Form 401 or 402) for the nonprofit agency concerned. This requirement does not apply to a nonprofit agency that is already authorized to furnish a commodity or service under the JWOD Act.

(m) Review and forward to the Committee by December 1 of each year a completed original copy of the appropriate Annual Certification (Committee Form 403 or 404) for each of its participating nonprofit agencies covering the fiscal year ending the preceding September 30.

(n) Perform other JWOD administrative functions, including activities to increase Government and public awareness of the JWOD Act subject to the oversight of the Committee.
