
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.1 - General
####### § 101-26.100-2 Request for waivers.

Waiver requests, when required by § 101-26.102-1 (special order program established source items), § 101-26.301 (GSA stock items) or § 101-26.401-3(b) (Federal Supply Schedule items), shall be submitted to the Commissioner, Federal Supply Service (F), General Services Administration, Washington, DC 20406. Waiver requests will be approved if considered justified. Approval of a waiver request does not constitute authority for a sole source procurement. Depending on the basis for the waiver request, each request shall contain the following information:

(a) Waiver requests based on determination that the GSA item is not of the requisite quality or will not serve the required functional end-use purpose of the agency requesting the waiver shall include the following information with each request:

(1) A complete description of the type of item needed to satisfy the requirement. Descriptive literature such as cuts, illustrations, drawings, and brochures which show the characteristics or construction of the type of item or an explanation of the operation should be furnished whenever possible.

(2) The item description and the stock number (NSN if possible) of the GSA item being compared. Inadequacies of the GSA items in performing the required functions.

(3) The quantity required. (If demand is recurrent, nonrecurrent, or unpredictable, so state.)

(4) The name and telephone number of the person to be contacted when questions arise concerning the request.

(5) Other pertinent data, when applicable.

(b) Waiver request based on determination that the GSA item can be purchased locally at a lower price shall include the following information with each request. However, the price alone of an item without other substantive consideration will not be considered sufficient justification to approve a waiver request.

(1) A complete description of the type of item needed to satisfy the requirement.

(2) The quantity required. (If demand is recurrent, nonrecurrent, or unpredictable, so state.)

(3) The destination of item to be delivered.

(4) The name and address of source.

(5) A price comparison with the GSA item, including the NSN of the GSA item. Cost comparisons shall include the agency administrative cost to effect the local purchase.

(6) The name and telephone number of the person to be contacted when questions arise concerning the request.

(7) Other pertinent data, when applicable.

(c) When the item is a Standard or optional form available from GSA stock, the provisions of § 101-26.302 apply.

(d) Agencies shall not initiate action to procure similar items from non-GSA sources until a request for a waiver has been requested from and approved by GSA. The fact that action to procure a similar item has been initiated will not influence GSA action on a request for waiver.

(e) Waivers are not required for items or services procured in accordance with the policy set forth in § 101-26.100-1 relating to the acquisition of the lowest cost item from GSA sources, § 101-26.401-4(f) relating to the purchase of products that are available at prices lower than the prices of identical products provided by multiple award Federal Supply Schedule contracts, or when an urgent requirement exists in accordance with FAR 6.302-2 (48 CFR 6.302-2).
