
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.1 - General
####### ยง 101-26.100-3 Warranties.

Through its procurement sources and programs GSA provides for certain types of items and services which are covered by warranties. Such warranties allow ordering activities additional time after acceptance within which to assert a right to correct certain deficiencies in supplies or services furnished. The additional time period and the specific corrective actions for which the contractor is responsible are usually stated in the warranty. Items and services subject to warranties are normally identified by a warranty marking or notice. Such marking or notice will state that a warranty exists, its extent of coverage, its duration, and whom to notify concerning defects. Using activities shall take the following actions when items or services (except for automotive vehicles and components which are subject to the provisions of ยง 101-26.501-6) covered by warranty provisions are found to be defective during the warranty period.

(a) Activities shall attempt to resolve all complaints where a warranty is involved. If the contractor replaces the item or corrects the deficiency, a Standard Form (SF) 368, Product Quality Deficiency Report, in duplicate, shall be sent to the GSA Discrepancy Reports Center (6FR), 1500 East Bannister Road, Kansas City, MO 64131-3088. The resolution of the case should be clearly stated in the text of the SF 368. This information will be maintained as a quality history file for use in future procurements.

(b) If the contractor refuses to correct, or fails to replace, a defective item or an aspect of service under the warranty, an SF 368, in duplicate, along with copies of all pertinent correspondence, shall be submitted to the contracting officer in the appropriate GSA commodity center for necessary action. The address of the contracting officer is contained in the contract/purchase order, except for schedule items where the address is shown in the Federal Supply Schedule.
