
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.1 - General
####### ยง 101-26.102-3 Procurement leadtime.

When GSA performs the purchasing services for other agencies or activities as contemplated by this ยง 101-26.102-3, calculation of the delivery dates required for the items involved must be based on the procurement leadtimes illustrated in the GSA publication, FEDSTRIP Operating Guide. These leadtimes are based on the normal time required after receipt of agency requisitions by GSA to effect delivery to destinations within the 50 States.

(a) Time required to obtain any additional essential information from the requisitioning office for use in issuing a solicitation for bids or offers is not included in the leadtimes.

(b) If unusually large quantities or complex items are required, leadtime adjustments should be made to reflect the specific requirement. As an example, standard furniture items can usually be delivered in less than 90 days after receipt of the requisition. However, for large quantity or complex orders requiring a definite quantity procurement, delivery times may range from 4 to 6 months. Footnotes relating to classes where this is a frequent occurrence are shown in the procurement leadtime table illustrated in the FEDSTRIP Operating Guide.

(c) The procurement leadtime table illustrated in the FEDSTRIP Operating Guide does not apply to public exigency or other high priority requisitions; however, it should be used as a guide to establish realistic required delivery dates for such requisitions.
