
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.1 - General
####### ยง 101-26.104 End-of-year submission of requisitions for action by GSA.

(a) Purchase documents for supplies or services submitted to GSA at or near the close of a fiscal year shall reflect actual agency requirements and shall not be used as a means of exhausting appropriation balances.

(b) Under the FEDSTRIP/MILSTRIP systems, the requisitions submitted to GSA are not required to reflect the applicable appropriation or fiscal year funds to be charged. The fund code entry on the requisition simply indicates to the supply source (GSA) that funds are available to pay the charge, thereby providing authority for the release of material and subsequent billing. Requisitions received by GSA in purchase authority format are normally converted to FEDSTRIP/MILSTRIP documentation so that processing can be accomplished expeditiously through a uniform system based on the use of automated equipment. Accordingly, primary responsibility rests with the ordering activity for ensuring that requisitions intended to be chargeable to appropriations expiring the last day of the fiscal year are submitted in sufficient time for GSA to consummate the necessary action before the end of the fiscal year. Requisitions submitted on or before the last day of the fiscal year may be chargeable to appropriations expiring on that date provided the ordering agency is required by law or GSA regulation to use GSA supply sources. When the ordering agency is not required to use GSA sources, requisitions for GSA stock items may be recorded as obligations provided the items are intended to meet a bona fide need of the fiscal year in which the need arises or to replace stock used in that fiscal year; requests for other than GSA stock items are to be recorded as obligations at the time GSA awards a contract for the required items. In the latter case, GSA procurement leadtimes illustrated in the GSA publication, FEDSTRIP Operating Guide, should be used as a guide for timely submission of these requisitions. The leadtimes referred to relate to the number of days between submission of a requisition and actual delivery of the items involved. While this may furnish some guidance to requisitioners, there is no direct relationship between those leadtimes and the time it takes for GSA to make an award of a contract.

(c) End-of-year submission of requisitions which require GSA to award a contract not later than the last day of the fiscal year in order to obligate the appropriation or funds of the ordering agency will be annotated to indicate that GSA procurement of the requested items must be accomplished not later than the last day of the fiscal year in which the requisitions are submitted. For example, a FEDSTRIP/MILSTRIP requisition should be prepared to include Document Identifier Code A0E or A05 and reflect the annotation in the "Remarks" block. With this information GSA will attempt to complete procurement action before the end of the fiscal year. When a requistion is received too late to permit GSA to complete procurement action before the end of the fiscal year, the requisitioning activity will be so notified and requested to furnish instructions regarding the action to be taken. Based on these instructions, procurement action will be taken or the requisition will be canceled and returned to the ordering activity.
