
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.3 - Procurement of GSA Stock Items
####### ยง 101-26.305 Submission of orders to GSA.

(a) Orders shall be submitted in accordance with the instructions in the FEDSTRIP Operating Guide (FPMR 101-26.2).

(b) Orders in other than FEDSTRIP format shall be submitted:

(1) In original only when for shipment to destinations in the United States, including Hawaii but excluding Alaska.

(2) In accordance with applicable GSA/agency agreements when for shipment to Alaska or for export to destinations outside the United States.

(c) Sufficient funds should be reserved by the requisitioner to cover expenses incurred by GSA in export packing, marking, documentation, etc. GSA will assess a surcharge on all material ordered and delivered to customers in certain overseas areas. The surcharge is a percentage factor of the value of the material shipped. Information on the specific areas and the current percentage of surcharge is included in the GSA Handbook, Discrepancies or Deficiencies in GSA or DOD Shipments, Material, or Billings (FPMR 101-26.8). The surcharge is a percentage factor of the value of the material shipped. Information on the current percentage of surcharge may be obtained from the GSA regional office to which orders are submitted.
