
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.3 - Procurement of GSA Stock Items
####### ยง 101-26.311 Frustrated shipments.

(a) At the request of the ordering agency, GSA may authorize diversion or return for credit of any shipment consigned to an overseas destination which, while en route, cannot be continued onward for any reason and for which the consignee or requisitioning agency cannot provide diversion instructions:

(b) Requests to GSA for disposition instructions shall be directed to the GSA office which made the shipment. Data provided by the agency shall include the original requisition document number, purchase order number (if any), supplementary addresses, and present location of the frustrated shipment. In addition, the agency should furnish the Government bill of lading number or commercial bill of lading reference, and the carrier's freight or waybill number.

(c) GSA may direct disposition of such material through any of the means listed below. Disposition instructions will include a determination by GSA as to the responsibility for payment of transportation costs.

(1) Shipment of material to another consignee.

(2) Temporary storage pending further instructions.

(3) Return to GSA stock.

(4) Disposal by agency.

(5) Disposition through other means if deemed to be in the best interest of the Government.

(d) GSA will provide required documentation to accomplish the desired action and will, if appropriate, initiate necessary adjustments in billing.

(e) Frustrated shipments involving other than GSA stock items will be treated in a manner similar to that prescribed in this ยง 101-26.311 on a case by case basis.
