
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.5 - GSA Procurement Programs
####### ยง 101-26.501 Purchase of new motor vehicles.

(a) It shall be the policy to procure commercially available motor vehicles, unless other vehicles are specifically required.

(b) New sedans, station wagons, and light trucks (other than those to be used for law enforcement or where other than standard vehicles are required) shall be procured as follows: Sedans, class IB-subcompact or II-compact; station wagons, class I-subcompact or class II compact vehicles, as described in Federal standard No. 122; and light trucks as defined in Federal standard Nos. 292 and 307. (Federal standard Nos. 122, 292, and 307 as used in this section mean the latest editions.)

Requisitions submitted to GSA for motor vehicles shall be in conformance with the requirements of subpart 101-38.1.

(1) Standard passenger vehicles as defined in Federal standard No. 122 are considered to be completely equipped for ordinary operation and are subject to the maximum statutory price limitation.

(2) Items (vehicles) included in Federal standard No. 122 other than those listed as standard (basic units) are considered to be equipped with additional systems and equipment for passenger vehicles.

(c) Requisitions submitted to GSA for the acquisition of new passenger vehicles and light trucks under 8500 GVWR (gross vehicle weight rating) shall be in conformance with Pub. L. 94-163 and Executive Order 12375.

(d) New trucks and buses shall be requisitioned in accordance with the provisions of this ยง 101-26.501 and the following:

(1) Light trucks shall be in accordance with Federal standard Nos. 292 and 307; and

(2) Medium and heavy trucks and buses, when not procured from standardized buying programs, shall be in accordance with the latest editions of Federal standard No. 794, Federal specification Nos. KKK-T-2107, 2108, 2109, 2110, 2111, and Federal specification No. KKK-B-1579. Standardized buying programs shall be based on these specifications as appropriate.

(e) Selection of additional systems or equipment in new vehicles shall be made by the requiring agency and shall be based on the need to provide for overall safety, efficiency, economy, and suitability of the vehicle for the purposes intended pursuant to ยง 101-38.104-2.

(1) The essentiality of such systems or equipment shall be weighed against the economic factors involved, the potential benefits to be derived therefrom, and the impact on the fuel consumption characteristics of the vehicle.

(2) Additional systems or equipment requested to be purchased by GSA will be construed to have been determined essential for the effective operation of the vehicle involved by the agency head or a designee. When systems or equipment other than those listed in Federal standards are requested, these systems or equipment shall be considered and treated as deviations under ยง 101-26.501-4(b).
