
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.5 - GSA Procurement Programs
####### ยง 101-26.501-1 General.

Except as provided for the Department of Defense (DOD) in paragraph (a) of this section, each executive agency shall submit to GSA for procurement its orders for purchase in the United States of all new passenger motor vehicles (FSC 2310), trucks or truck tractors (FSC 2320), trailers (FSC 2330) van type (with payload of not less than 5,000 nor more than 50,000 pounds), and firetrucks and firefighting trailers (FSC 4210). Specifically included are sedans, station wagons, carryalls, ambulances, buses, and trucks, including trucks with specialized mounted equipment, truck chassis with special purpose bodies, and all van-type trailers (with payload of not less than 5,000 nor more than 50,000 pounds).

(a) DOD shall submit to GSA for procurement its orders for purchase in the United States for all non-tactical vehicles including, but not limited to, commercial-type passenger motor vehicles (FSC 2310), including buses, and trucks and truck tractors (FSC 2320).

(b) When it is determined by the ordering activity that requirements for passenger motor vehicles and trucks indicate the need for procurement by buying activities other than GSA, a request for waiver justifying the procurement shall be submitted in writing to the General Services Administration (FCA), Washington, DC 20406. GSA will notify agencies in writing whether a waiver has been granted. Justification may be based on the urgency of need or the fact that the vehicle has unique characteristics, such as special purpose body or equipment, requiring the agency personnel to closely supervise installation of the equipment by the contractor; e.g., when a medical van is to be equipped with Government- or contractor-supplied equipment. Requests for procurement through sources other than GSA will be handled on an individual basis provided full justification is submitted therefore.

(c) When it is determined by GSA that procurement of an individual agency requirement by GSA would offer no advantage over local purchase of the item, GSA may grant the ordering activity authority for local purchase. When such a determination is made, the order will be returned to the ordering agency with written authority for local purchase.
