
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.5 - GSA Procurement Programs
####### ยง 101-26.501-2 Standardized buying programs.

Wherever practical, requirements for motor vehicles will be satisfied under existing standardized buying programs (Indefinite Quantity, Requirements, Federal Supply Schedule contracts). Agencies not familiar with these programs, or seeking additional information about them, are encouraged to contact the GSA Automotive Commodity Center prior to submitting their orders.

(a) Requirements contracts are in place or anticipated to be in place for the following types of standard motor vehicles:

(1) Medium and heavy trucks:

(i) 4 x 2 and 6 x 4 cab-chassis, stake, van, dump, and truck-tractor; 19,000 to 60,000 pounds GVWR.

(ii) 4 x 4 and 6 x 4 cab-chassis, stake, dump, and truck-tractor; 26,000 to 52,000 pounds GVWR.

(iii) 1,200 and 2,000 gallon fuel servicing vehicles; and 2,000 gallon aircraft refueler.

(2) Ambulances (in accordance with Federal Specification No. KKK-A-1822): Type I, modular body on cab-chassis; Type II, van body with raised roof; Type III, modular body on van cutaway chassis.

(3) Buses and mini-buses, including school buses:

(i) 32 to 44 adult passenger; 48 to 66 school age passenger.

(ii) 12 to 28 adult passenger; 24 to 42 school age passenger.

(4) Sedans and station wagons (based on standardized, consolidated requirements).

(5) Certain types of light trucks (e.g., conventional carryall, maintenance telephone utility); requirements contracts are established to cover as many types of light trucks as feasible.

(b) Federal Supply Schedule contracts are available to cover certain special purpose motor vehicles, such as firefighting trucks, waste disposal trucks, and construction equipment.
