
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.5 - GSA Procurement Programs
####### ยง 101-26.501-4 Submission of orders.

Orders for all motor vehicles shall be submitted on GSA Form 1781, Motor Vehicle Requisition, or DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR), to the General Services Administration, Automotive Commodity Center (FCA), Washington, DC 20406, and shall contain required FEDSTRIP data for mechanized processing. The Department of Defense shall ensure that appropriate MILSTRIP data are entered on DD Form 448.

(a) Requisitions covering vehicle types not included in Federal standard Nos. 122, 292, 307, or 794, in a military specification, or in an agency specification on file with GSA, shall contain complete descriptions of the vehicles required, the intended use of the vehicles, and terrain in which the vehicles will be used.

(b) Requisitions for vehicles within the category of Federal standard Nos. 122, 292, 307, or 794, but for which deviations from such standards are required, unless already waived by the Director, Automotive Commodity Center (FCA), Federal Supply Service, GSA, Washington, DC 20406, shall include with the requisition a justification supporting each deviation from the standards and shall contain a statement of the intended use of the vehicles, including a description of the terrain in which the vehicles will be used. Prior approval of deviations shall be indicated on the requisitions by citing the waiver authorization number.

(c) GSA Form 1781, Motor Vehicle Requisition, has been specifically designed for agency use to expedite ordering of all vehicles. Agencies are requested to use GSA Form 1781 as a single-line-item requisition for nonstandard as well as standard vehicles. When ordering standard vehicles, the appropriate standard item number for such vehicles equipped to meet specific operational needs may be selected from the applicable table in the Federal standards. Additional systems and equipment may be added by inserting in the "Option Codes" portion of the form the appropriate code for the selected items from the table of options in the standard. When ordering nonstandard vehicles or options, the instructions on the reverse of GSA Form 1781, properly completed, will satisfy the requirements regarding the submission of requisitions as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) Each requisition shall indicate the appropriation fund code to be charged and must bear the original signature of an officer authorized to obligate cited funds.

(e) Separate requisitions shall be submitted for each vehicle type and consignee.
