
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.5 - GSA Procurement Programs
####### ยง 101-26.509-2 Requisitioning tabulating machine cards not available from Federal Supply Schedule contracts.

(a) Requisitions for tabulating machine cards covered by Federal Supply Schedule contracts which exceed the maximum order limitation of the schedule shall be forwarded in FEDSTRIP format to the GSA regional office supporting the geographic area in which the requisitioner is located.

(b) Requisitions for tabulating machine cards not covered by Federal Supply Schedule contracts shall be submitted to GSA for purchase action if the dollar value of the cards exceeds or is estimated to exceed $2,500. However, regardless of the amount involved (including requisitions estimated to be $2,500 or less), purchase action shall not be taken by GSA or an agency unless a waiver of the requirement for the use of tabulating cards available from Federal Supply Schedule contracts has been furnished in accordance with ยง 101-26.100-2. Requests for waivers shall be submitted to the Commissioner, Federal Supply Service (F), General Services Administration, Washington, DC 20406. The requests shall fully describe the items required and state the reasons the tabulating machine cards covered by the Federal Supply Schedule contracts will not adequately serve the end-use purpose. GSA will notify the requesting agency in writing of the action taken on the waiver request. To reduce leadtime, requisitions may be submitted in FEDSTRIP format with the requests for waivers. A requisition for items for which a waiver has first been obtained shall be submitted with a copy of the waiver to the GSA regional office supporting the geographic area in which the requisitioner is located. GSA will either arrange for procurement of the items or authorize the requesting activity to procure them.

(c) Purchase requests with established delivery dates should allow sufficient leadtime (see ยง 101-26.102-3) to permit orderly procurement by GSA, including acceptance testing and delivery to destination.

(d) In those instances where an agency anticipates a need for scheduled deliveries, minimum or maximum order quantities, or other special arrangements, GSA will develop specific provisions to accommodate the needs of the particular agency. These provisions will be based on information furnished by the agency concerned for inclusion in solicitations for offers and resultant contracts.
