
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.6 - Procurement Sources Other Than GSA
####### ยง 101-26.602-3 Procurement of gasoline, fuel oil (diesel and burner), kerosene, and solvents.

(a) Estimates of annual requirements will be solicited annually by the Defense Fuel Supply Center from agencies on record so as to reach that activity approximately 45 calendar days before the due date shown in Defense Fuel Supply Center geographic alignment of States set forth in ยง 101-26.602-3 (d) and (e). The requirements call will be accomplished by mailing a computer-produced record of the file data for each delivery point that has been identified to each submitting addressee; instructions for validation and return will be included. Activities not on record but requiring procurement support shall prepare and submit estimates on DFSC Form 15:18 to the Defense Fuel Supply Center, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22314. An illustration of DFSC Form 15:18 is contained in ยง 101-26.4904-1518. Copies may be obtained on request from: Commander, Defense Fuel Supply Center, Attention: DFSC-OD, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22314.

(1) Estimated annual requirements for any delivery point which total less than the following minimums shall not be submitted to the Defense Fuel Supply Center, unless the activity does not have authority or capability to procure locally.

(2) Estimates shall not be submitted when the minimum quantities to be delivered to any one point on a single delivery are less than the following minimums, unless the activity does not have the authority or capability to procure locally.

(b) Agency requirements will be solicited for procurement by the Defense Fuel Supply Center, and contracts resulting from these solicitations will be summarized in contract bulletins, separately for each Defense Fuel Supply Center geographic region, and distributed to agencies on record. Activities requiring additional contract bulletins shall submit requests to: Commander, Defense Fuel Supply Center, Attention: DFSC-OD, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22314.

(c) The items covered in contract bulletins issued by the Defense Fuel Supply Center are in accordance with the latest issue of the applicable Federal specification. Agency requirements submitted for products not under a Federal specification must include accurate and complete product laboratory analysis.

(d) The following illustrates the Defense Fuel Supply Center geographic alignment of the States, the delivery periods covered for each region, the identification of purchase programs, and the due dates for submission of requirements for motor gasoline, fuel oil (diesel and burner), and kerosene.

(e) Estimates of requirements for solvents to be delivered in the continental United States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands during the period January 1 through December 31 shall be submitted to arrive at the Defense Fuel Supply Center by the preceding July 1. The purchase program identification is 3.11.

(f) Estimates of requirements for aviation fuels for delivery in the United States shall be submitted in accordance with section 11, chapter 1, of DOD 4140.25-M, Procedures for the Management of Petroleum Products.

(g) Requirements for aviation fuels (all grades) shall be submitted in accordance with DFSC Regulation 4220.1, Requirements Submission Schedule for Petroleum Products. Copies of DFSCR 4220.1 may be obtained from the Defense Fuel Supply Center (DFSC-W), Cameron Station, Alexandria, Va. 22314.

(h) Requirements for petroleum fuels at locations other than as identified in this ยง 101-26.602-3 may be obtained from other Federal activities by agreement with the activity concerned or from local purchase sources, when local purchase authority and capability exists, or by submitting requests direct to the Defense Fuel Supply Center, Attention: DFSC-OD, Cameron Station, Alexandria, Va. 22314, if centralized procurement is desired.
