
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-26 - PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM
###### Subpart 101-26.6 - Procurement Sources Other Than GSA
####### ยง 101-26.602-5 Procurement of natural gas from the wellhead and other supply sources.

(a) Natural gas requirements shall be satisfied from sources that are most advantageous to the Government in terms of economy, efficiency, and service. A cost/benefit analysis shall be required by the procuring Federal agency if the natural gas procurements at a facility exceed 20,000 mcf annually and the facility can accept interruptible service. If sources other than the local public utility are the most advantageous to the Government, agency requirements may be satisfied through the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA). Arrangements for DLA procurements on behalf of civilian agencies shall be made through GSA. GSA will forward agency requests to DLA after assuring that necessary requirements data are included.

(b) Agency requests for DLA natural gas shall be forwarded to the Public Utilities Division (PPU), Office of Procurement, General Services Administration, 18th and F Streets, NW., Washington, DC 20405. The requests shall include for each facility for which natural gas is required: The name, address, and telephone number of the requesting agency representative; the name, address, and telephone number of the facility representative; the name of the local distribution company; the expected usage (in mcf) at the facility for each month during the next year of service; the expected peak day usage in mcf at the facility; a statement of funds availability; and documentation of the cost analysis performed that justifies the alternative source procurement.

(c) Agency requests for procurements by DLA shall be forwarded to GSA at the time the information specified in ยง 101-26.602-5(b) becomes available.

(d) Agencies should anticipate that actions required by DLA to establish a natural gas contract will take 5 to 7 months.
