
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-27 - INVENTORY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart 101-27.2 - Management of Shelf-Life Materials
####### ยง 101-27.208 Inventory analyses.

(a) An inventory analysis shall be conducted periodically for each Type I item to determine whether the quantity on hand will be used within the established shelf-life period. If the analysis indicates there are quantities which will not be used within the shelf-life period, arrangements shall be made to ensure use of the item(s) within the holding agency or for redistribution to other agencies.

(b) An inventory analysis shall be conducted periodically for each Type II item with a shelf life of 60 months or less to determine whether issue of the quantity on hand is anticipated prior to the expiration of the designated shelf life. This analysis shall be made as follows:

(1) If the analysis indicates that the quantity on hand will not be issued within the shelf-life period and the cost of inspection or testing is not significant in relation to the line item value, the items shall be inspected to determine if the shelf-life period can be extended.

(2) If the analysis indicates that the quantity on hand will be issued within the shelf-life period, inspection is not required. However, such items shall be viewed again during the last month of the shelf-life period to determine whether quantities are sufficient to warrant inspection. The guidelines in ยง 101-27.207-2 shall be used to determine whether quantities are sufficient to warrant inspection and for extending the shelf-life period.

(3) If an agency does not have an inspection capability and the quantity and value of an indicated overage is sufficiently large to warrant special consideration, arrangements shall be made for qualified inspection or laboratory testing to determine whether the material is suitable for issue.
