
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-5 - CONTRACTING REQUIREMENTS
##### ยง 51-5.5 Prices.

(a) The prices for items on the Procurement List are fair market prices established by the Committee under authority of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 47(b)).

(b) Prices for commodities include applicable packaging, packing, and marking. Prices include transportation to point of delivery as specified in ยง 51-5.6.

(c) Price changes for commodities and services shall usually apply to orders received by the nonprofit agency on or after the effective date of the change. In special cases, after considering the views of the contracting activity, the Committee may make price changes applicable to orders received by the nonprofit agency prior to the effective date of the change.

(d) To assist the Committee in revising the fair market prices for services on the Procurement List, upon request from the central nonprofit agency, the contracting activity should take the following actions:

(1) Submit to the Department of Labor in a timely fashion a request for wage determination rate.

(2) Provide a copy of the new wage determination rate or the Department of Labor document stating that the wage determination rate is unchanged to the central nonprofit agency at least 60 days before the beginning of the new service period.

(3) Provide to the central nonprofit agency at least 90 days before the beginning of the new service period a copy of the statement of work applicable to the new service period.

(e) If a contracting activity desires packing, packaging, or marking of products other than the standard pack or as provided in the Procurement List, any difference in cost shall be negotiated with the nonprofit agency.
