
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-28 - STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
###### Subpart 101-28.2 - Interagency Cross-Servicing in Storage Activities
####### ยง 101-28.202-2 Cancellation of cross-servicing arrangements.

(a) Accepted requests may be canceled by the requesting agency prior to delivery of supplies, material, and equipment to the storage activity when logistical developments make cancellation necessary or cancellation is in the best interest of the Government. The agency which accepted the request shall be informed of the cancellation in writing as soon as possible.

(b) Cancellation of arrangements in facilities to be inactivated or disposed of by an operating agency may be made as provided for in the GSA/DOD agreement. Also, after supplies, material, and equipment have been received at a storage activity, cancellation may be made when unforeseen emergencies arise which justify such cancellation. Advice of these necessary cancellations shall be in writing to the agency owning the material sufficiently in advance to allow the owning agency the maximum amount of time to make other arrangements for their property.

(c) When a facility in which cross-servicing is being accomplished is to be transferred from an operating agency to another agency, the operating agency shall inform the agency owning the property at least 90 days before the transfer. The agency owning the property shall negotiate with the agency gaining the facility for continued cross-servicing of the property at the facility. The agency gaining the facility shall continue the cross-servicing arrangements unless they are contrary to the best interest of the Government.
