
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-28 - STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
###### Subpart 101-28.3 - Customer Supply Centers
####### ยง 101-28.306-4 Expiration or cancellation.

(a) CSC accounts established for Federal agencies or members of the Federal judiciary are valid for an indefinite period of time unless canceled by the Commissioner, FSS, GSA, or by a GSA Regional Administrator.

(b) CSC accounts established for authorized contractors or Members of Congress will contain an expiration date reflecting the termination date of the contract or term of office. New accounts will be established for reinstated contractors or reelected Members of Congress upon submission of a new application.

(c) Any CSC customer may request cancellation of his/her account when no longer required or whenever there is cause to believe that the customer access code has been compromised. Agencies shall keep GSA advised of any changes in organization or accounting structures that might have an impact on their CSC accounts.

(d) The Commissioner FSS, GSA, may periodically direct a nationwide purge of all CSC accounts to cancel those that are duplicates, not needed, or for which the customer access code has been compromised. Selective account cancellations may be directed by the GSA Regional Administrator in coordination with FSS Central Office. Under the procedures of a nationwide purge, CSC accounts become invalid as of a specific date established by the Commissioner, FSS, GSA, or by a Regional Administrator, and new CSC accounts are established upon receipt of new applications.
