
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-6 - PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
##### ยง 51-6.1 Direct order process.

(a) Once a commodity or service is added to the Procurement List, the central nonprofit agency may authorize the contracting activity to issue orders directly to a nonprofit agency without requesting an allocation for each order. This procedure is known as the direct order process.

(b) In these cases, the central nonprofit agency shall specify the normal leadtime required for orders transmitted directly to the nonprofit agencies. This method shall be used whenever possible since it eliminates double handling and decreases the time required for processing orders.

(c) An order for commodities or services shall provide leadtime sufficient for purchase of materials, production or preparation, and delivery or completion.

(d) The central nonprofit agency shall keep the contracting activity informed of any changes in leadtime experienced by its nonprofit agencies in order to keep to a minimum requests for extensions once an order is placed. Where, due to unusual conditions, an order does not provide sufficient leadtime, the central nonprofit agency or the individual nonprofit agency may request an extension of delivery or completion date which should be granted, if feasible. If extension of delivery or completion date is not feasible, the contracting activity shall:

(1) Notify the central nonprofit agency and the individual nonprofit agency(ies) as appropriate.

(2) Request the central nonprofit agency to reallocate or to issue a purchase exception authorizing procurement from commercial sources as provided in ยง 51-5.4 of this chapter.

(e) The contracting activity shall promptly provide to the central nonprofit agency concerned a copy of all orders issued to nonprofit agencies.

(f) The written direct order authorization remains valid until it is revoked by the central nonprofit agency.
