
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-6 - PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
##### ยง 51-6.2 Allocation process.

(a) In those cases where a direct order authorization has not been issued as described in ยง 51-6.1, the contracting activity shall submit written requests for allocation to the appropriate central nonprofit agency indicated by the Procurement List at the address listed below:

(b) Requests for allocations shall contain, as a minimum:

(1) For commodities. Name, stock number, latest specification, quantity, unit price, and place and time of delivery.

(2) For services. Type and location of service required, latest specification, work to be performed, estimated volume, and time for completion.

(c) Contracting activities shall request allocations in sufficient time for the central nonprofit agency to reply, for the order(s) to be placed, and for the nonprofit agencies to furnish the commodity or service (see paragraph (i) of this section).

(d) When a commodity on the Procurement List also appears on the Federal Prison Industries' "Schedule of Products," the contracting activity shall obtain clearance from the Federal Prison Industries prior to requesting an allocation or placing an order directly to the nonprofit agency(ies).

(e) The central nonprofit agency shall make allocations to the appropriate nonprofit agency(ies) upon receipt of a request from the contracting activity and instruct that the orders be forwarded to the central nonprofit agency or direct to the nonprofit agency(ies) with a copy provided promptly to the central nonprofit agency.

(f) Central nonprofit agencies shall reply promptly to requests for allocation. When a request for allocation provides a delivery schedule (based on established lead times and time required for processing the allocation request) which cannot be met, the central nonprofit agency shall request a revision, which the contracting activity shall grant, if feasible, or the central nonprofit agency shall issue a purchase exception authorizing procurement from commercial sources as provided in ยง 51-5.4 of this chapter.

(g) An allocation is not an obligation to supply a commodity or service, or an obligation for the contracting activity to issue an order. Nonprofit agencies are not authorized to commence production until receipt of an order.

(h) Upon receipt of an allocation, the contracting activity shall promptly submit an order to the appropriate central nonprofit agency or designated nonprofit agency(ies). Where this cannot be done promptly, the contracting activity shall advise the central nonprofit agency and the nonprofit agency(ies) immediately.

(i) An order for commodities or services shall provide leadtime sufficient for purchase of materials, production or preparation, and delivery or completion.

(j) The Central nonprofit agency shall keep the contracting activity informed of any changes in leadtime experienced by its nonprofit agency(ies) in order to keep to a minimum requests for extensions once an order is placed. Where, due to unusual conditions, an order does not provide sufficient leadtime, the central nonprofit agency or nonprofit agency may request an extension of delivery or completion date which should be granted, if feasible. If extension of delivery or completion date is not feasible, the contracting activity shall:

(1) Notify the central nonprofit agency and nonprofit agency(ies) as appropriate.

(2) Request the central nonprofit agency to reallocate or to issue a purchase exception authorizing procurement from commercial sources as provided in ยง 51-5.4 of this chapter.

(k) In those instances where the central nonprofit agency is the prime contractor rather than the nonprofit agency, the central nonprofit agency will designate the nonprofit agency(ies) authorized by the Committee to furnish definite quantities of commodities or specific services upon receipt of an order from the contracting activity.
