
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-29 - FEDERAL PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS
###### Subpart 101-29.4 - Mandatory Use of Federal Product Descriptions
####### ยง 101-29.402 Exceptions to mandatory use of Federal product descriptions.

(a) Federal product descriptions do not need to be used under any of the following circumstances:

(1) The purchase is required under a public exigency and a delay in obtaining agency requirements would be involved in using the applicable description.

(2) The total amount of the purchase is less than $10,000. (Multiple small purchases of the same item shall not be made for the purpose of avoiding the intent of this exception. Further, this exception in no way affects the requirements for the procurement of items available from GSA supply distribution facilities, Federal Supply Schedule contracts, GSA procurement programs, and certain procurement sources other than GSA that have been assigned supply responsibility for Federal agencies as provided in subparts 101-26.3, ยง 101-26.4, and ยง 101-26.5).

(3) The items are purchased in foreign markets for use of overseas activities of agencies.

(4) The products are adequately described in voluntary standards or in standards mandated by law.

(5) The acquisition involves a one-time procurement.

(6) A Federal product description is not currently available and is not expected to be available within a reasonable time of the scheduled acquisition action.

(7) The product is available only from a single source or is produced to a single manufacturer's design.

(8) The product is unique to a single system.

(9) The product (excluding military clothing) is acquired for authorized resale.

(b) If the purchase involves the following, Federal product descriptions do not need to be used except to the extent they are applicable, in whole or in part:

(1) Items required in construction of facilities for new processes or new installations of equipment;

(2) Items required for experiment, test, or research and development; or

(3) Spare parts, components, or material required for operation, repair, or maintenance of existing equipment.
