
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-6 - PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
##### ยง 51-6.8 Deletion of items from the Procurement List.

(a) When a central nonprofit agency decides to request that the Committee delete a commodity or service from the Procurement List, it shall notify the Committee staff immediately. Before reaching a decision to request a deletion of an item from the Procurement List, the central nonprofit agency shall determine that none of its nonprofit agencies is capable and desirous of furnishing the commodity or service involved.

(b) Except in cases where the Government is no longer procuring the item in question, the Committee shall, prior to deleting an item from the Procurement List, determine that none of the nonprofit agencies of the other central nonprofit agency is desirous and capable of furnishing the commodity or service involved.

(c) Nonprofit agencies will normally be required to complete production of any orders for commodities on hand regardless of the decision to delete the item. Nonprofit agencies shall obtain concurrence of the contracting activity and the Committee prior to returning a purchase order to the contracting activity.

(d) For services, a nonprofit agency shall notify the contracting activity of its intent to discontinue performance of the service 90 days in advance of the termination date to enable the contracting activity to assure continuity of the service after the nonprofit agency's discontinuance.

(e) The Committee may delete an item from the Procurement List without a request from a central nonprofit agency if the Committee determines that none of the nonprofit agencies participating in the AbilityOne Program are capable and desirous of furnishing the commodity or service to the Government, or if the Committee decides that the commodity or service is no longer suitable for procurement from nonprofit agencies employing people who are blind or have other severe disabilities. In considering such an action, the Committee will consult with the appropriate central nonprofit agency, the nonprofit agency or agencies involved, and the contracting activity.
