
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-30 - FEDERAL CATALOG SYSTEM
###### Subpart 101-30.7 - Item Reduction Program
####### ยง 101-30.704-1 General Services Administration.

(a) The General Services Administration (GSA) will develop or authorize other Government agencies to develop item reduction studies on items within the Federal supply classification (FSC) classes for which GSA is the integrated material manager.

(b) GSA, as the civil agency coordinating activity for item reduction studies originated by both GSA and DOD, will:

(1) Distribute proposed item reduction studies, as appropriate, to all civil agencies recorded as users of the item in the DLSC data base. This distribution will be made by coordination letters in which a time frame for a response will be specified. GSA will interpret each nonresponse to a proposed study to mean that the activity concurs with the study. Extensions, when requested by an agency, normally will be granted by GSA.

(2) Respond to questions concerning proposed item reduction studies.

(3) Prepare a consolidated civil agency position paper (including comments and nonconcurrences) relative to each study upon receipt of user responses.

(4) Incorporate civil agency positions into proposed item reduction studies prepared by GSA or forward a consolidated civil agency position paper to appropriate preparing activities.

(5) Resolve controversies arising from proposed item reduction study recommendations.

(6) Review approved item reduction studies to ensure that concurrences and nonconcurrences from all civil agencies are accurately reflected.

(7) Register into the Federal catalog system, data base approved item reduction decisions concerning items within the FSC classes which are managed by GSA.

(8) Implement decisions documented in approved item reduction studies within the GSA supply system.

(9) Distribute approved item reduction studies to all recorded civil agency users. All civil agencies (except direct submitters of catalog data to DLSC) will also be forwarded covering letters which will request specific information relative to implementing the studies; i.e., inventory levels of items coded ISC 3. Activities not responding within the time frame specified (60 calendar days) will receive a followup notice before being automatically withdrawn as users of all items coded as not authorized for procurement.
