
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter E - Supply and Procurement
##### PART 101-30 - FEDERAL CATALOG SYSTEM
###### Subpart 101-30.7 - Item Reduction Program
####### ยง 101-30.704-2 Other agencies.

Civil agencies participating in the Federal Catalog System shall:

(a) Conduct a review of the items included in the proposed study by the preparing activity with respect to the ISC to determine the impact the assigned code may have on the agency's supply system.

(b) Prepare and submit written comments on the proposed study to GSA within the time frame specified in the GSA coordination letter, concur with the study, or nonconcur on specific proposed standardization relationships. If comments cannot be prepared and submitted within the time frame specified, an extension shall be requested from GSA.

(c) Review the approved item reduction study and notify GSA in writing if the activity is to be retained or deleted as a user of any item coded as "not authorized for procurement." This notification will allow the preparer of the study to complete coordination of the study and update the DLSC Total Item Record (TIR).

(d) Implement within the agency those item reduction decisions resulting from the study.

(e) Request, as appropriate, the retention of a nonstandard item in their supply system by forwarding a letter to General Services Administration (FRIS), Washington, DC 20406. The request shall include but not be limited to the following information:

(1) The specific end-use of end-item application;

(2) A technical explanation comparing the physical and functional characteristics of the nonstandard item with each authorized-for-procurement item;

(3) The duration of the requirement for the item or how long the end-item will be retained in the agency's supply system; and

(4) Economic considerations from a technical standpoint. GSA will evaluate the request and inform the agency of its acceptance or rejection.
