
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 101 - Federal Property Management Regulations
#### Subchapter G - Aviation, Transportation, and Motor Vehicles
##### PART 101-39 - INTERAGENCY FLEET MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
###### Subpart 101-39.3 - Use and Care of GSA Interagency Fleet Management System Vehicles
####### ยง 101-39.300 General.

(a) The objective of the General Services Administration (GSA) Interagency Fleet Management System (IFMS) is to provide efficient and economical motor vehicle and related services to participating agencies. To attain this objective, policies and procedures for use and care of GSA IFMS vehicles provided to an agency or activity are prescribed in this subpart.

(b) To operate a motor vehicle furnished by the GSA IFMS, civilian employees of the Federal Government shall have a valid State, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth operator's license for the type of vehicle to be operated and some form of agency identification. Non-Government personnel, such as contractors, shall have a valid license for the type of equipment to be operated when using vehicles supplied by the GSA IFMS (this may include a Commercial Driver's License). All other vehicle operators, and Federal civilian employees that have a valid civilian operator's license, but not for the type of equipment to be operated, must have in their possession an Optional Form 346, U.S. Government Motor Vehicle Operator's Identification Card, for the type of equipment to be operated. Specific regulations covering procedures and qualifications of Government motor vehicle operators are contained in 5 CFR part 930, issued by the Office of Personnel Management.

(c) To operate a motor vehicle furnished by GSA, drivers and occupants shall wear safety belts whenever the vehicle is in operation. The vehicle operator shall ensure that all vehicle occupants are wearing their safety belts prior to operating the vehicle.

(d) The use of tobacco products is prohibited in GSA IFMS motor vehicles. The agency to which the vehicle is assigned is responsible for ensuring that its employees do not use tobacco products while occupying IFMS vehicles. If a user agency violates this prohibition, the agency will be charged for the cost of cleaning the affected vehicle(s) beyond normal detailing procedures to remove tobacco odor or residue or repairing damage caused as a result of tobacco use. The decision to perform such additional cleaning or repair will be made by the GSA fleet manager based upon the condition of the vehicle when assigned, the degree of tobacco residue and damage, and the cost effectiveness of such additional cleaning.

(e) Reasonable diligence in the care of GSA IFMS vehicles shall be exercised by using agencies and operators at all times. Officials or employees failing to take proper care of motor vehicles issued to them may be refused further authorization to use GSA IFMS vehicles after reasonable notice has been provided by GSA to the head of the local activity concerned.
