
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-8 - PUBLIC AVAILABILTY OF AGENCY MATERIALS
##### ยง 51-8.3 Requirements for Making Requests.
###### Description of records sought.

(b)Requesters must describe records sought in sufficient detail to enable Committee personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist in identifying the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records that they are seeking. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the FOIA office or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they are seeking and to receive assistance in describing the records. If after receiving a request the FOIA office determines that it does not reasonably describe the records sought, the FOIA office shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the FOIA office or FOIA Public Liaison, each of whom is available to assist the requester in reasonably describing the records sought. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the agency's response to the request may be delayed.

(c) If the Committee determines that a request does not reasonably describe the records, it shall inform the requester of this fact and extend to the requester an opportunity to clarify the request or to confer promptly with knowledgeable Committee personnel to attempt to identify the records being sought or to reformulate a request. The Committee may offer assistance in identifying records and reformulating a request where: The description is deemed insufficient, the production of voluminous records is required, or a considerable number of work hours would be required to complete the request that would interfere with the business of the Committee.
