
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-33 - MANAGEMENT OF GOVERNMENT AIRCRAFT
###### Subpart D - Disposing or Replacing of Government Aircraft and Aircraft Parts
####### Replacing Aircraft Parts Through Exchange/Sale
######## ยง 102-33.360 What is the process for exchanging/selling aircraft parts for replacement?
######### "Warning to purchasers/recipients.

The aircraft parts you are purchasing or receiving in an exchange may not be in compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requirements. You are solely responsible for bringing the aircraft into compliance with 14 CFR Chapter I, or other applicable standards, by obtaining all necessary FAA inspections or modifications."

(3) Ensure that the following certification is signed by the purchaser/recipient and received by the Government before releasing parts to the purchaser/recipient:

"The purchaser/recipient agrees that the Government shall not be held liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of, or death of the purchaser/recipient, the purchaser's/recipient's employees, or to any other persons arising from or incident to the purchase of these aircraft parts, their use, or disposition. The purchaser/recipient shall hold the Government harmless from any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the purchase, use, or resale of these aircraft parts.

These parts may have been used on aircraft that were operated outside the limitations of 14 CFR Chapter I, and some type of inspection may be needed to determine their airworthiness prior to being used on a recipient aircraft.

You should be aware of the following requirements prior to operating an aircraft with parts received from an exchange.

- All civil and public aircraft must have a valid registration issued by the FAA as required by 14 CFR Chapter I.

- Civil aircraft must have a valid airworthiness certificate in order to operate in U.S. airspace.

- In order for the aircraft to be eligible for a standard airworthiness certificate, the aircraft must conform to its FAA Type Certificate.

- Aircraft not having a valid airworthiness certificate may be eligible for a special FAA one-time flight permit to enable relocating the aircraft. Relocation can be for a number of reasons, perhaps including storage, repair, inspection, or public display. Any one-time flight approval is predicated on the aircraft being safe for flight.

- Individuals who purchase a surplus military (foreign or domestic) or foreign aircraft not having any type of FAA Type Certificate may be unable to obtain any type of airworthiness certificate or special flight permit.
