
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-36 - DISPOSITION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### Responsibility
######## ยง 102-36.45 What are our responsibilities in the management of excess personal property?

(a) Agency procurement policies should require consideration of excess personal property before authorizing procurement of new personal property.

(b) You are encouraged to designate national and regional property management officials to:

(1) Promote the use of available excess personal property to the maximum extent practicable by your agency.

(2) Review and approve the acquisition and disposal of excess personal property.

(3) Ensure that any agency implementing procedures comply with this part.

(c) When acquiring excess personal property, you must:

(1) Limit the quantity acquired to that which is needed to adequately perform the function necessary to support the mission of your agency.

(2) Establish controls over the processing of excess personal property transfer orders.

(3) Facilitate the timely pickup of acquired excess personal property from the holding agency.

(d) While excess personal property you have acquired is in your custody, or the custody of your non-Federal recipients and the government retains title, you and/or the non-Federal recipient must do the following:

(1) Establish and maintain a system for property accountability.

(2) Protect the property against hazards including but not limited to fire, theft, vandalism, and weather.

(3) Perform the care and handling of personal property. "Care and handling" includes completing, repairing, converting, rehabilitating, operating, preserving, protecting, insuring, packing, storing, handling, conserving, and transporting excess and surplus personal property, and destroying or rendering innocuous property which is dangerous to public health or safety.

(4) Maintain appropriate inventory levels as set forth in part 101-27 of this title.

(5) Continuously monitor the personal property under your control to assure maximum use, and develop and maintain a system to prevent and detect nonuse, improper use, unauthorized disposal, or destruction of personal property.

(e) When you no longer need personal property to carry out the mission of your program, you must:

(1) Offer the property for reassignment to other activities within your agency.

(2) Promptly report excess personal property to GSA when it is no longer needed by any activity within your agency for further reuse by eligible recipients.

(3) Continue the care and handling of excess personal property while it goes through the disposal process.

(4) Facilitate the timely transfer of excess personal property to other federal agencies or authorized eligible recipients.

(5) Provide reasonable access to authorized personnel for inspection and removal of excess personal property.

(6) Ensure that final disposition complies with applicable environmental, health, safety, and national security regulations.
