
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 50 - Public Contracts, Department of Labor
#### PART 50-203 - RULES OF PRACTICE
##### Subpart A - Proceedings Under Section 5 of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act
###### ยง 50-203.1 Reports of breach or violation.

(a) Any employer, employee, labor or trade organization or other interested person or organization may report a breach or violation, or apparent breach or violation of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act of June 30, 1936 (49 Stat. 2036, as amended; 41 U.S.C. 35-45), or of any of the rules or regulations prescribed thereunder.

(b) A report of breach or violation may be reported to the nearest office of the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration or with the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, D.C. 20210.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) In the event that the Wage and Hour Division is notified of a breach or violation which also involves safety and health standards, such Director shall notify the appropriate Regional Director of the Bureau of Labor Standards who shall with respect to the safety and health violation take action commensurate with his responsibilities pertaining to safety and health standards.

(e) The report should contain the following:

(1) The full name and address of the person or organization reporting the breach or violation.

(2) The full name and address of the person against whom the report is made, hereinafter referred to as the "respondent".

(3) A clear and concise statement of the facts constituting the alleged breach or violation of any of the provisions of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act, or of any of the rules or regulations prescribed thereunder.
