
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-36 - DISPOSITION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart B - Acquiring Excess Personal Property For Our Agency
####### Acquiring Excess
######## ยง 102-36.75 Do we pay for excess personal property we acquire from another federal agency under a transfer?

(a) No, except for the situations listed in paragraph (b) of this section, you do not pay for the property. However, you are responsible for shipping and transportation costs. Where applicable, you may also be required to pay packing, loading, and any costs directly related to the dismantling of the property when required for the purpose of transporting the property.

(b) You may be required to reimburse the holding agency for excess personal property transferred to you (i.e., transfer with reimbursement) when:

(1) Reimbursement is directed by GSA.

(2) The property was originally acquired with funds not appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury or appropriated therefrom but by law reimbursable from assessment, tax, or other revenue and the holding agency requests reimbursement. It is executive branch policy that working capital fund property shall be transferred without reimbursement.

(3) The property was acquired with appropriated funds, but reimbursement is required or authorized by law.

(4) You or the holding agency is the U.S. Postal Service (USPS).

(5) You are acquiring excess personal property for use by a project grantee that is a public agency or a nonprofit organization and exempt from taxation under 26 U.S.C. 501.

(6) You or the holding agency is the DC Government.

(7) You or the holding agency is a wholly owned or mixed-ownership government corporation as defined in the Government Corporation Control Act (31 U.S.C. 9101-9110).
