
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-36 - DISPOSITION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart B - Acquiring Excess Personal Property For Our Agency
####### Direct Transfers
######## ยง 102-36.145 May we obtain excess personal property directly from another Federal agency without GSA approval?

Yes, but only under the following situations:

(a) You may obtain excess personal property that has not yet been reported to GSA, provided the total acquisition cost of the excess property does not exceed $10,000 per line item. You must ensure that a SF 122 is completed for the direct transfer and that an authorized official of your agency signs the SF 122. You must provide a copy of the SF 122 to the appropriate regional GSA office within 10 workdays from the date of the transaction.

(b) You may obtain excess personal property exceeding the $10,000 per line item limitation, provided you first contact the appropriate regional GSA Personal Property Management office for verbal approval of a prearranged transfer. You must annotate the SF 122 with the name of the GSA approving official and the date of the verbal approval, and provide a copy of the SF 122 to GSA within 10 workdays from the date of transaction.

(c) You are subject to the requirement to pay reimbursement for the excess personal property under a direct transfer when any of the conditions in ยง 102-36.75(b) applies.

(d) You may obtain excess personal property directly from another federal agency without GSA approval when that federal agency has statutory authority to dispose of such excess personal property and you are an eligible recipient.
