
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-36 - DISPOSITION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart C - Acquiring Excess Personal Property for Non-Federal Recipients
####### Project Grantees
######## ยง 102-36.190 Must we always pay 25 percent of the original acquisition cost when furnishing excess personal property to project grantees?

No, you may acquire excess personal property for use by a project grantee without paying the 25 percent fee when any of the following conditions apply:

(a) The personal property was originally acquired from excess sources by your agency and has been placed into official use by your agency for at least one year. The federal government retains title to such property.

(b) The property is furnished under section 203 of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 580a) through the U.S. Forest Service in connection with cooperative state forest fire control programs. The federal government retains title to such property.

(c) The property is furnished by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to state or county extension services or agricultural research cooperatives under 40 U.S.C. 483(d)(2)(E). The federal government retains title to such property.

(d) The property is not needed for donation under part 102-37 of this chapter, and is transferred under section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2358). Title to such property transfers to the grantee. (You need not wait until after the donation screening period when furnishing excess personal property to recipients under the Agency for International Development (AID) Development Loan Program.)

(e) The property is scientific equipment transferred under section 11(e) of the National Science Foundation (NSF) Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1870(e)). GSA will limit such transfers to property within Federal Supply Classification (FSC) groups 12, 14, 43, 48, 58, 59, 65, 66, 67, 68 and 70. GSA may approve transfers without reimbursement for property under other FSC groups when NSF certifies the item is a component of or related to a piece of scientific equipment or is a difficult-to-acquire item needed for scientific research. Regardless of FSC, GSA will not approve transfers of common-use or general-purpose items without reimbursement. Title to such property transfers to the grantee.

(f) The property is furnished in connection with grants to Indian tribes, as defined in section 3(c) of the Indian Financing Act (24 U.S.C. 1452(c)). Title passage is determined under the authorities of the administering agency.
