
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-36 - DISPOSITION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart D - Disposition of Excess Personal Property
####### Reporting Excess Personal Property
######## § 102-36.220 Must we report all excess personal property to GSA?

(a) Generally yes, regardless of the condition code, except as authorized in § 102-36.145 for direct transfers or as exempted in paragraph (b) of this section. Report all excess personal property, including excess personal property to which the government holds title but is in the custody of your contractors, cooperatives, or project grantees.

(b) You are not required to report the following types of excess personal property to GSA for screening:

(1) Property determined appropriate for abandonment/destruction (see § 102-36.305).

(2) Non-appropriated fund property (see § 102-36.165).

(3) Foreign excess personal property (see § 102-36.380).

(4) Scrap, except aircraft in scrap condition.

(5) Perishables, defined for the purposes of this section as any personal property subject to spoilage or decay.

(6) Trading stamps and bonus goods.

(7) Hazardous waste.

(8) Controlled substances.

(9) Nuclear Regulatory Commission-controlled materials.

(10) Property dangerous to public health and safety.

(11) Classified items or property determined to be sensitive for reasons of national security.

(c) Refer to part 101-42 of this title for additional guidance on the disposition of classes of property under paragraphs (b)(7) through (b)(11) of this section.
