
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-36 - DISPOSITION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart D - Disposition of Excess Personal Property
####### Reporting Excess Personal Property
######## ยง 102-36.235 What information do we provide when reporting excess personal property?

(a) You must provide the following data on excess personal property:

(1) The reporting agency and the property location.

(2) A report number (6-digit activity address code and 4-digit Julian date).

(3) 4-digit Federal Supply Class (use National Stock Number whenever available).

(4) Description of item, in sufficient detail.

(5) Quantity and unit of issue.

(6) Disposal Condition Code (see ยง 102-36.240).

(7) Original acquisition cost per unit and total cost (use estimate if original cost not available).

(8) Manufacturer, date of manufacture, part and serial number, when required by GSA.

(b) In addition, provide the following information on your report of excess, when applicable:

(1) Major parts/components that are missing.

(2) If repairs are needed, the type of repairs.

(3) Special requirements for handling, storage, or transportation.

(4) The required date of removal due to moving or space restrictions.

(5) If reimbursement is required, the authority under which the reimbursement is requested, the amount of reimbursement and the appropriate fund code to which money is to be deposited.

(6) If you will conduct the sale of personal property that is not transferred or donated.
