
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-36 - DISPOSITION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart D - Disposition of Excess Personal Property
####### Transfers With Reimbursement
######## ยง 102-36.285 May we charge for personal property transferred to another federal agency?

(a) When any one of the following conditions applies, you may require and retain reimbursement for the excess personal property from the recipient:

(1) Your agency has the statutory authority to require and retain reimbursement for the property.

(2) You are transferring the property under the exchange/sale authority.

(3) You had originally acquired the property with funds not appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury or appropriated therefrom but by law reimbursable from assessment, tax, or other revenue. It is current executive branch policy that working capital fund property shall be transferred without reimbursement.

(4) You or the recipient is the U.S. Postal Service.

(5) You or the recipient is the DC Government.

(6) You or the recipient is a wholly owned or mixed-ownership government corporation.

(b) You may charge for direct costs you incurred incident to the transfer, such as packing, loading and shipping of the property. The recipient is responsible for such charges unless you waive the amount involved.

(c) You may not charge for overhead or administrative expenses or the costs for care and handling of the property pending disposition.
