
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-36 - DISPOSITION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart E - Personal Property Whose Disposal Requires Special Handling
####### Aircraft and Aircraft Parts
######## ยง 102-36.340 What must we do when disposing of excess aircraft?

(a) You must report to GSA all excess aircraft, regardless of condition or dollar value, and provide the following information on the SF 120:

(1) Manufacturer, date of manufacture, model, serial number.

(2) Major components missing from the aircraft, such as engines, electronics.

(3) Whether or not the:

(i) Aircraft is operational;

(ii) Data plate is available;

(iii) Historical and maintenance records are available;

(iv) Aircraft has been previously certificated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and/or has been maintained to FAA airworthiness standards;

(v) Aircraft was previously used for non-flight purposes (i.e., ground training or static display), and has been subjected to extensive disassembly and re-assembly procedures for ground training, or repeated burning for fire-fighting training purposes.

(4) For military aircraft, indicate Category A, B, or C as designated by the Department of Defense (DOD), as follows:

(b) When the designated transfer or donation recipient's intended use is for non-flight purposes, you must remove and return the data plate to GSA Property Management Branch (9FBP), San Francisco, CA 94102-3434 prior to releasing the aircraft to the authorized recipient. GSA will forward the data plates to FAA.

(c) You must also submit a report of the final disposition of the aircraft to the Federal Aviation Interactive Reporting System (FAIRS) maintained by the Office of Travel, Transportation, and Asset Management (MT), GSA, 1800 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20405. For additional instructions on reporting to FAIRS, see part 102-33 of this chapter.
