
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-8 - PUBLIC AVAILABILTY OF AGENCY MATERIALS
##### ยง 51-8.10 Fees.
###### Advance payments.,i.e.,

(i)(1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (i)(2) or (i)(3) of this section, the Committee shall not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.

(2) When the Committee determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. The Committee may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.

(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee within 30 calendar days of the billing date, the Committee may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and the Committee may require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before the Committee begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. Where the Committee has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.

(4) In cases in which the Committee requires advance payment, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of the Committee's fee determination, the request will be closed.
