
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-37 - DONATION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### Donation Overview
######## ยง 102-37.40 What type of surplus property is available for donation?

All surplus property (including property held by working capital funds established under 10 U.S.C. 2208 or in similar funds) is available for donation to eligible recipients, except for property in the following categories:

(a) Agricultural commodities, food, and cotton or woolen goods determined from time to time by the Secretary of Agriculture to be commodities requiring special handling with respect to price support or stabilization.

(b) Property acquired with trust funds (e.g., Social Security Trust Funds).

(c) Non-appropriated fund property.

(d) Naval vessels of the following categories: Battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, and submarines.

(e) Vessels of 1500 gross tons or more which the Maritime Administration determines to be merchant vessels or capable of conversion to merchant use.

(f) Records of the Federal Government.

(g) Property that requires reimbursement upon transfer (such as abandoned or other unclaimed property that is found on premises owned or leased by the Government).

(h) Controlled substances.

(i) Items as may be specified from time to time by the GSA Office of Governmentwide Policy.
