
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-37 - DONATION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart B - General Services Administration (GSA)
####### ยง 102-37.100 What factors will GSA consider in allocating surplus property among SASPs?

GSA allocates property among the SASPs on a fair and equitable basis using the following factors:

(a) Extraordinary needs caused by disasters or emergency situations.

(b) Requests from the Department of Defense (DOD) for DOD-generated property to be allocated through a SASP for donation to a specific service educational activity.

(c) Need and usability of property, as reflected by requests from SASPs. GSA will also give special consideration to requests transmitted through the SASPs by eligible donees for specific items of property. (Requests for property to be used as is will be given preference over cannibalization requests.)

(d) States in greatest need of the type of property to be allocated where the need is evidenced by a letter of justification from the intended donee.

(e) Whether a SASP has already received similar property in the past, and how much.

(f) Past performance of a SASP in effecting timely pickup or removal of property approved for transfer and making prompt distribution of property to eligible donees.

(g) The property's condition and its original acquisition cost.

(h) Relative neediness of each State based on the State's population and per capita income.
