
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-37 - DONATION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart D - State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)
####### Screening and Requesting Property
######## ยง 102-37.200 What certifications must a SASP make when requesting surplus property for donation?

When requesting or applying for property, you must certify that:

(a) You are the agency of the State designated under State law that has legal authority under 40 U.S.C. 549 and GSA regulations, to receive property for distribution within the State to eligible donees as defined in this part.

(b) No person with supervisory or managerial duties in your State's donation program is debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participating in the donation program.

(c) The property is usable and needed within the State by:

(1) A public agency for one or more public purposes.

(2) An eligible nonprofit organization or institution which is exempt from taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501), for the purpose of education or public health (including research for any such purpose).

(3) An eligible nonprofit activity for programs for older individuals.

(4) A service educational activity (SEA), for DOD-generated property only.

(d) When property is picked up by, or shipped to, your SASP, you have adequate and available funds, facilities, and personnel to provide accountability, warehousing, proper maintenance, and distribution of the property.

(e) When property is distributed by your SASP to a donee, or when delivery is made directly from a holding agency to a donee pursuant to a State distribution document, you have determined that the donee acquiring the property is eligible within the meaning of the Property Act and GSA regulations, and that the property is usable and needed by the donee.
