
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-37 - DONATION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart D - State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)
####### Disposing of Undistributed Property
######## ยง 102-37.315 What costs may a SASP recover if undistributed surplus property is retransferred or sold?

(a) When undistributed surplus property is transferred to a Federal agency or another SASP, or disposed of by public sale, you are entitled to recoup:

(1) Direct costs you initially paid to the Federal holding agency, including but not limited to, packing, preparation for shipment, and loading. You will not be reimbursed for actions following receipt of the property, including unloading, moving, repairing, preserving, or storage.

(2) Transportation costs you incurred, but were not reimbursed by a donee, for initially moving the property from the Federal holding agency to your distribution facility or other point of receipt. You must document and certify the amount of reimbursement requested for these costs.

(b) Reimbursable arrangements should be made prior to transfer of the property. In the case of a Federal transfer, GSA will secure agreement of the Federal agency to reimburse your authorized costs, and annotate the amount of reimbursement on the transfer document. You must coordinate and make arrangements for reimbursement when property is transferred to another SASP. If you and the receiving SASP cannot agree on an appropriate reimbursement charge, GSA will determine appropriate reimbursement. The receiving SASP must annotate the reimbursement amount on the transfer document prior to its being forwarded to GSA for approval.

(c) When undistributed property is disposed of by public sale, GSA must approve the amount of sales proceeds you may receive to cover your costs. Generally, this will not exceed 50 percent of the total sales proceeds.
