
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-37 - DONATION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart D - State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)
####### Cooperative Agreements
######## ยง 102-37.325 With whom and for what purpose(s) may a SASP enter into a cooperative agreement?

Section 549(f) of title 40, United States Code allows GSA, or Federal agencies designated by GSA, to enter into cooperative agreements with SASPs to carry out the surplus property donation program. Such agreements allow GSA, or the designated Federal agencies, to use the SASP's property, facilities, personnel, or services or to furnish such resources to the SASP. For example:

(a) Regional GSA personal property management offices, or designated Federal agencies, may enter into a cooperative agreement to assist a SASP in distributing surplus property for donation. Assistance may include:

(1) Furnishing the SASP with available GSA or agency office space and related support such as office furniture and information technology equipment needed to screen and process property for donation.

(2) Permitting the SASP to retain items of surplus property transferred to the SASP that are needed by the SASP in performing its donation functions (see ยง 102-37.270).

(b) Regional GSA personal property management offices may help the SASP to enter into agreements with other GSA or Federal activities for the use of Federal telecommunications service or federally-owned real property and related personal property.

(c) A SASP may enter into a cooperative agreement with GSA to conduct sales of undistributed property on behalf of GSA (see ยง 102-37.305).
