
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-9 - PRIVACY ACT RULES
##### Subpart 51-9.2 - Disclosure of Records
###### ยง 51-9.201 Conditions of disclosure.

No Committee member or employee of the Committee shall disclose any record to any person or to another agency without the express written consent of the subject individual unless the disclosure is:

(a) To Committee members or employees who have a need for the information in the official performance of their duties.

(b) Required under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.

(c) For a routine use as published in the annual notice in the

(d) To the Bureau of Census for uses pursuant to Title 13.

(e) To a recipient who has provided the agency with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable. The written statement should include as a minimum:

(1) A statement of the purpose for requesting the records, and

(2) Certification that the records will be used only for statistical purposes.

(f) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, or for evaluation by the Administrator of General Services or his designee to determine whether the record has such value.

(g) To another agency or instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the agency which maintains the record specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought.

(h) To a person showing compelling circumstances affecting the health and safety of an individual (not necessarily the individual to whom the record pertains). Upon such disclosure, a notification of such shall be sent to the last known address of the individual.

(i) To either House of Congress or to a subcommittee or committee (joint or of either House, to the extent that the subject matter falls within their jurisdiction).

(j) To the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office, or

(k) Pursuant to the order of the court of competent jurisdiction.
