
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-37 - DONATION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart E - Donations to Public Agencies, Service Educational Activities (SEAs), and Eligible Nonprofit Organizations
####### Terms and Conditions of Donation
######## ยง 102-37.450 What agreements must a donee make?

Before a SASP may release property to a donee, the donee must agree to the following conditions:

(a) The property is acquired on an "as is, where is" basis, without warranty of any kind, and it will hold the Government harmless from any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the donation of the property, its use, or final disposition.

(b) It will return to the SASP, at its own expense, any donated property:

(1) That is not placed in use for the purposes for which it was donated within 1 year of donation; or

(2) Which ceases to be used for such purposes within 1 year after being placed in use.

(c) It will comply with the terms and conditions imposed by the SASP on the use of any item of property having a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more and any passenger motor vehicle or other donated item. (Not applicable to SEAs.)

(d) It agrees that, upon execution of the SASP distribution document, it has conditional title only to the property during the applicable period of restriction. Full title to the property will vest in the donee only after the donee has met all of the requirements of this part.

(e) It will comply with conditions imposed by GSA, if any, requiring special handling or use limitations on donated property.

(f) It will use the property for an authorized purpose during the period of restriction.

(g) It will obtain permission from the SASP before selling, trading, leasing, loaning, bailing, cannibalizing, encumbering or otherwise disposing of property during the period of restriction, or removing it permanently for use outside the State.

(h) It will report to the SASP on the use, condition, and location of donated property, and on other pertinent matters as the SASP may require from time to time.

(i) If an insured loss of the property occurs during the period of restriction, GSA or the SASP (depending on which agency has imposed the restriction) will be entitled to reimbursement out of the insurance proceeds of an amount equal to the unamortized portion of the fair market value of the damaged or destroyed item.
