
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-37 - DONATION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart E - Donations to Public Agencies, Service Educational Activities (SEAs), and Eligible Nonprofit Organizations
####### Special Handling or Use Conditions
######## ยง 102-37.460 What special terms and conditions apply to the donation of aircraft and vessels?

The following special terms and conditions apply to the donation of aircraft and vessels:

(a) There must be a period of restriction which will expire after the aircraft or vessel has been used for the purpose stated in the letter of intent (see ยง 102-37.230) for a period of 5 years, except that the period of restriction for a combat-configured aircraft is in perpetuity.

(b) The donee of an aircraft must apply to the FAA for registration of an aircraft intended for flight use within 30 calendar days of receipt of the aircraft. The donee of a vessel must, within 30 calendar days of receipt of the vessel, apply for documentation of the vessel under applicable Federal, State, and local laws and must record each document with the U.S. Coast Guard at the port of documentation. The donee's application for registration or documentation must include a fully executed copy of the conditional transfer document and a copy of its letter of intent. The donee must provide the SASP and GSA with a copy of the FAA registration (and a copy of its FAA Standard Airworthiness Certificate if the aircraft is to be flown as a civil aircraft) or Coast Guard documentation.

(c) The aircraft or vessel must be used solely in accordance with the executed conditional transfer document and the plan of utilization set forth in the donee's letter of intent, unless the donee has amended the letter, and it has been approved in writing by the SASP and GSA and a copy of the amendment recorded with FAA or the U.S. Coast Guard, as applicable.

(d) In the event any of the terms and conditions imposed by the conditional transfer document are breached, title may revert to the Government. GSA may require the donee to return the aircraft or vessel or pay for any unauthorized disposal, transaction, or use.

(e) If, during the period of restriction, the aircraft or vessel is no longer needed by the donee, the donee must promptly notify the SASP and request disposal instructions. A SASP may not issue disposal instructions without the prior written concurrence of GSA.

(f) Military aircraft previously used for ground instruction and/or static display (Category B aircraft, as designated by DOD) or that are combat-configured (Category C aircraft) may not be donated for flight purposes.

(g) For all aircraft donated for nonflight use, the donee must, within 30 calendar days of receipt of the aircraft, turn over to the SASP the remaining aircraft historical records (except the records of the major components/life limited parts; e.g., engines, transmissions, rotor blades, etc., necessary to substantiate their reuse). The SASP in turn must transmit the records to GSA for forwarding to the FAA.
