
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-37 - DONATION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart E - Donations to Public Agencies, Service Educational Activities (SEAs), and Eligible Nonprofit Organizations
####### Compliance and Utilization
######## ยง 102-37.485 What actions must a SASP take if a review or other information indicates noncompliance with donation terms and conditions?

If a review or other information indicates noncompliance with donation terms and conditions, you must:

(a) Promptly investigate any suspected failure to comply with the conditions of donated property;

(b) Notify GSA immediately where there is evidence or allegation of fraud, wrongdoing by a screener, or nonuse, misuse, or unauthorized disposal or destruction of donated property;

(c) Temporarily defer any further donations of property to any donee to be investigated for noncompliance allegations until such time as the investigation has been completed and:

(1) A determination made that the allegations are unfounded and the deferment is removed.

(2) The allegations are substantiated and the donee is proposed for suspension or debarment; and

(d) Take steps to correct the noncompliance or otherwise enforce the conditions imposed on use of the property if a donee is found to be in noncompliance. Enforcement of compliance may involve:

(1) Ensuring the property is used by the present donee for the purpose for which it was donated.

(2) Recovering the property from the donee for:

(i) Redistribution to another donee within the State;

(ii) Transfer through GSA to another SASP; or

(iii) Transfer through GSA to a Federal agency.

(3) Recovering fair market value or the proceeds of disposal in cases of unauthorized disposal or destruction.

(4) Recovering fair rental value for property in cases where the property has been loaned or leased to an ineligible user or used for an unauthorized purpose.

(5) Disposing of by public sale property no longer suitable, usable, or necessary for donation.
