
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 50 - Public Contracts, Department of Labor
#### PART 50-203 - RULES OF PRACTICE
##### Subpart A - Proceedings Under Section 5 of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act
###### ยง 50-203.3 Answer.

(a) The respondent shall have the right, unless otherwise specified in the complaint and notice, within twenty (20) days after date of issuance of the formal complaint, to file an answer thereto. Such answer shall not be limited to a mere denial of the charges. It shall specifically deny or admit each of the charges, and, if the answer is in denial of any one of the charges, it shall contain a concise statement of the facts relied upon in support of the denial. Any charges not specifically denied in the answer shall be deemed to be admitted and may be so found by the administrative law judge, unless the respondent disclaims knowledge upon which to make a denial. If the answer should admit any charge but the respondent believes there are reasons or circumstances warranting special consideration, such reasons and circumstances should be fully but concisely stated.

(b) Such answer shall be in writing, and signed by the respondent or his attorney or by any other duly authorized agent with power of attorney affixed.

(c) If no answer is filed, or if the answer as filed does not warrant a postponement of the hearing, such hearing will be held as scheduled.

(d) The original and two copies of the answer shall be filed with the Chief administrative law judge, Department of Labor, Washington, D.C.

(e) In any case where formal complaints have been amended, the respondent shall have the right to amend his answer within such time as may be fixed by the administrative law judge.
