
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-9 - PRIVACY ACT RULES
##### Subpart 51-9.3 - Individual Access to Records
###### ยง 51-9.303-3 Granting access.

(a) Upon receipt of a request for access to non-exempt records, the Executive Director shall make such records available to the individual, or shall acknowledge the request within ten working days. The acknowledgment shall indicate when the Executive Director will make the record available.

(b) If the Executive Director anticipates more than ten days in making a record available he also shall include in the acknowledgement specific reasons for the delay.

(c) If an individual's request for access does not contain sufficient information to permit the Executive Director to locate the record, the Executive Director shall request additional information from the individual and shall have ten working days following receipt of the additional information in which to make the record available, or to acknowledge receipt of the request and indicate when the record will be available. In no case shall more information be requested from the individual than that contained in the pertinent system of records.

(d) The Executive Director, at his discretion, either shall permit an individual to examine the original of the record, or shall provide the individual with a copy of the record. Fees shall be charged only for copies requested by the individual and not for copies provided to the individual for convenience of the agency.

(e) An individual may request to pick up a record in person or receive it by mail, directed to the name and address provided by the individual in his request. The Executive Director shall not make a record available to a third party for delivery to the subject individual, except in the case of medical records outlined in ยง 51-9.303-2.

(f) The Executive Director shall maintain in an individual's record an accounting of disclosures to the individual's documenting compliance with the request.

(g) The procedures for access to an accounting of disclosures is identical to the procedure for access to a record as set forth in this section.
