
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-38 - SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart B - Sales Process
####### Methods of Sale
######## ยง 102-38.75 How may we sell personal property?

(a) You will sell personal property upon such terms and conditions as the head of your agency or designee deems proper to promote the fairness, openness, and timeliness necessary for the sale to be conducted in a manner most advantageous to the Government. When you are selling property on behalf of another agency, you must consult with the holding agency to determine any special or unique sales terms and conditions. You must also document the required terms and conditions of each sale, including, but not limited to, the following terms and conditions, as applicable:

(1) Inspection.

(2) Condition and location of property.

(3) Eligibility of bidders.

(4) Consideration of bids.

(5) Bid deposits and payments.

(6) Submission of bids.

(7) Bid price determination.

(8) Title.

(9) Delivery, loading, and removal of property.

(10) Default, returns, or refunds.

(11) Modifications, withdrawals, or late bids.

(12) Requirements to comply with applicable laws and regulations. 41 CFR part 101-42 contains useful guidance addressing many of these requirements. You should also contact your agency's Office of General Counsel or environmental office to identify applicable Federal, State, or local environmental laws and regulations.

(13) Certificate of independent price determinations.

(14) Covenant against contingent fees.

(15) Limitation on Government's liability.

(16) Award of contract.

(b) Standard government forms (e.g., Standard Form 114 series) may be used to document terms and conditions of the sale.

(c) When conducting and completing a sale through electronic media, the required terms and conditions must be included in your electronic sales documentation.
