
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 51 - Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled
#### PART 51-9 - PRIVACY ACT RULES
##### Subpart 51-9.4 - Requests To Amend Records
###### ยง 51-9.405 Request of review of refusal to amend a record.

(a) An individual who disagrees with the refusal to amend may appeal that refusal with the Committee. An individual should address a request for review of a refusal to amend any record, exclusive of a personnel record of a current Committee employee to the Chairperson, Committee for Purchase from People who are Blind or Severely Disabled, Jefferson Plaza 2, Suite 10800, 1421 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202-3259.

(b) A request to review must be in writing and should include a copy of the initial request and refusal to amend. The request to review should bear the legend "Privacy Act-Request for Review of Refusal to Amend" on both the face of the letter and the envelope. The Chairperson shall complete the review and make a determination no later than 30 working days after receipt of the request for review, unless a determination is made to extend the 30 day period. If a determination is made to extend the 30 day period, the Chairperson shall notify the requester in writing of the reasons for the delay and the date when the review will be completed.

(c) Upon receipt of a request to review a refusal to amend, the Chairperson shall undertake an independent review of the request and initial determination. If, after conducting the review, the Chairperson agrees to amend, he shall notify the requester promptly in writing of the determination, amend the record, and notify previous recipients in accordance with ยง 51-9.403.

(d) If, after conducting the review, the Chairperson agrees with the refusal to amend the record, he shall notify the requester promptly in writing of the determination. The notification shall include the reasons for the refusal, and shall advise the individual of his right to file a statement of disagreement, and the procedures for doing so. The Chairperson also shall advise the individual that such statement of disagreement will be made available in any subsequent disclosures of the record together with a concise statement summarizing reasons for refusal where the responsible official deems it appropriate. The Chairperson also will advise the individual of his right to bring civil action against the agency in a district court of the United States.
