
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-38 - SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart H - Implementation of the Federal Asset Sales Program
####### ยง 102-38.360 What must an executive agency do to implement the eFAS program?
######## FASPlanningOffice@gsa.gov

(a) An executive agency must review the effectiveness of all sales solutions, and compare them to the effectiveness (e.g., cost, level of service, and value added services) of the eFAS SCs. Agencies should give full consideration to sales solutions utilizing private sector entities, including small businesses, that are more effective than the solutions provided by any eFAS-approved SC. If the agency decides that there are more effective sales solutions than those solutions offered by the eFAS SCs, the agency must request a waiver from the milestones using the procedures and forms provided by the eFAS Planning Office. Waivers will be approved by the eFAS Planning Office upon presentation of a business case showing that complying with an eFAS milestone is either impracticable or inefficient. Waiver approval will be coordinated with GSA's Office of Travel, Transportation, and Asset Management. Contact the eFAS Planning Office atto obtain these procedures and forms.

(b) An approved waiver for meeting one of the eFAS milestones does not automatically waive all milestone requirements. For example, if an agency receives a waiver to the migration milestone, the agency must still (1) post asset information on the eFAS Web site and (2) provide post-sales data to the eFAS Planning Office in accordance with the content and format requirements developed by the eFAS ESC, unless waivers to these milestones are also requested and approved. Waivers to the eFAS milestones will not be permanent. Upon expiration of the waiver to the migration milestone, an agency must either migrate to an approved SC, or serve as a fully functioning SC, as soon as practicable. See the definition of a "Sales Center" at ยง 102-38.35 for an overview of how agency sales solutions become SCs.

(c) An agency which receives a waiver from the eFAS milestones must comply with subparts A through G of this part as if it were an SC.
