
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-39 - REPLACEMENT OF PERSONAL PROPERTY PURSUANT TO THE EXCHANGE/SALE AUTHORITY
###### Subpart B - Exchange/Sale Considerations
####### ยง 102-39.55 When should I offer property I am exchanging or selling under the exchange/sale authority to other Federal agencies or State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASP)?

If you have property to replace which is eligible for exchange/sale, you should first, to the maximum extent practicable, solicit:

(a) Federal agencies known to use or distribute such property. If a Federal agency is interested in acquiring and paying for the property, you should arrange for a reimbursable transfer. Reimbursable transfers may also be conducted with the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under the Architect's direction, the District of Columbia, and mixed-ownership Government corporations. When conducting a reimbursable transfer, you must:

(1) Do so under terms mutually agreeable to you and the recipient.

(2) Not require reimbursement of an amount greater than the estimated fair market value of the transferred property.

(3) Apply the transfer proceeds in whole or part payment for property acquired to replace the transferred property; and

(b) State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs) known to have an interest in acquiring such property. If a SASP is interested in acquiring the property, you should consider selling it to the SASP by negotiated sale at fixed price under the conditions specified at ยง 102-38.125 of this title. The sales proceeds must be applied in whole or part payment for property acquired to replace the transferred property.
