
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-40 - UTILIZATION AND DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart E - Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
####### § 102-40.140 How do we handle all-terrain vehicles (ATVs)?

(a) Three-wheeled and four-wheeled all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) can be exchanged with a dealer under the provisions of part 102-39 of this subchapter. Three-wheeled ATVs not exchanged must be mutilated in a manner to prevent operational use and may be sold only as salvage or scrap. Four-wheeled ATVs not exchanged may be offered for transfer and donation only when documented in accordance with §§ 102-40.75 and 102-40.80. In addition, any transfer or donation documentation for four-wheeled ATVs must require the recipient to acknowledge that the recipient will follow regulations and guidelines published by the Consumer Product Safety Commission related to these items, including age recommendations, restrictions on usage, and operator training. Four-wheeled ATVs not exchanged, transferred, or donated may be offered for sale as either salvage or scrap only after they have been mutilated in a manner to prevent operational use. Four-wheeled ATVs must not be released to the public after donee use, nor may they be released to the public after Federal use if the ATVs are not donated.

(b) A donation transfer document must contain a full description of the actual or potential hazard(s) and restriction(s) associated with the handling, storage, use, transportation or disposal of the item. In addition, the following certification (or an equivalent) must be signed by the donee:
