
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-40 - UTILIZATION AND DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart E - Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
####### ยง 102-40.155 How do we handle asbestos?
######## www.epa.gov/asbestos.

(a) Items with asbestos content must be handled in accordance with the EPA regulations found at 40 CFR part 61, subpart M. Further information on laws and regulations related to asbestos may be found at

(b) Report to GSA excess personal property containing nonfriable asbestos, as defined in 40 CFR 61.141, for subsequent transfer, donation or sale in accordance with parts 102-36 through 102-38 of this subchapter. Nonfriable asbestos materials cannot:

(1) When dry, be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder by hand pressure; or

(2) Contain asbestos which is bonded or otherwise rendered unavailable for release into the atmosphere through normal usage. All disposal documentation related to personal property containing nonfriable asbestos, such as exchange/sale, reporting, transfer, donation, and sales documents, must include a warning statement that the item may contain asbestos and must not be cut, crushed, sanded, disassembled or otherwise altered. The property must also be labeled or marked with such warning statements.

(c) You must use a warning such as the following on the documentation reporting or requesting the exchange/sale, transfer, donation or sale of an item containing asbestos:

(d) Property containing asbestos should be labeled with a warning such as the following:

(e) Nonfriable asbestos that is not transferred, donated, or sold may be abandoned as provided in ยง 102-40.125 and part 102-36 of this subchapter. If destroyed by burial, items containing friable or nonfriable asbestos must be disposed of by burial at a site that meets the requirements of 40 CFR 61.154.

(f) Friable asbestos materials that contain more than one percent asbestos by weight and can, by hand pressure, be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder, thus allowing for potential release of asbestos fibers into the air. Property containing friable asbestos normally is not to be transferred, donated or sold. Notwithstanding these provisions, holding agencies, on a case-by-case basis, may request approval from GSA Central Office, with consultation from the EPA, to transfer, donate or sell such property if in the judgment of the holding agency, special circumstances warrant such action.

(g) Excess personal property known to contain friable asbestos shall neither be reported to GSA nor transferred among Federal agencies excepted as noted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(h) Surplus property containing friable asbestos is to be neither donated nor sold. Such property is disposed of under paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) Excess and surplus property containing friable asbestos is to be disposed of by burial in a site that meets the EPA requirements of 40 CFR 61.156. Holding agencies should contact the nearest office of the EPA for assistance with regard to the disposal of materials containing asbestos, with the exception of DOD, who should contact the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA).
