
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-40 - UTILIZATION AND DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart E - Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
####### ยง 102-40.160 How do we handle controlled substances?

(a) You are not required to report excess controlled substances to GSA, but you should make reasonable efforts to transfer them to Federal agencies in accordance with Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) regulations (21 CFR part 1307). The recipient agency must certify that it is authorized to procure the particular controlled substance and provide the registration number on the Certificate of Registration, issued by the DEA. See the transfer procedures in FMR part 102-36 (41 CFR part 102-36).

(b) You must not donate controlled substances.

(c) In accordance with sales procedures specified in part 102-38 of this subchapter, and under the conditions specified in this paragraph, you may sell controlled substances by sealed bid only, to bidders who have registered with the DEA to manufacture, distribute, or dispense of the particular controlled substance. As a condition of sale, the bidder must submit verification of DEA registration. Prior to finalizing the sale, you must obtain confirmation from the DEA of the bidder's status as a registered manufacturer, distributor or dispenser of controlled substances.

(1) The invitation for bids for controlled substances must list only controlled substances and must only be distributed to bidders who are registered with the DEA, Department of Justice, to manufacture, distribute or dispense of the controlled substances being sold. In addition, the following statement, or an equivalent statement, must be included in the sales terms and conditions when selling controlled substances:

(2) The following certification, or an equivalent certification, must be made a part of the invitation for bids and contract to be completed and signed by the bidder and returned with the bid. Failure to sign the certification may result in the bid being rejected as nonresponsive:

(d) As a condition precedent to making an award for the sale of surplus controlled substances, holding agencies should follow procedures provided by the DEA in 21 CFR part 1310.

(e) You must not abandon controlled substances. You must destroy controlled substances in such a manner as to ensure total destruction to preclude any further use, and ensure such destruction is in compliance with DEA regulations, 21 CFR part 1307, or other procedures approved by DEA, and coordinate with local air and water pollution control authorities when required. Destruction must be witnessed and certified by two employees of your agency, unless DEA directs otherwise. The following certification, or an equivalent certification, must be used to document the destruction of controlled substances:
