
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-40 - UTILIZATION AND DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart E - Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
####### ยง 102-40.175 How do we handle firearms?

(a) You must submit reports and transfer documents on excess firearms to GSA (8QSC), Denver, CO 80225-0506. GSA will approve transfers of firearms only to those Federal agencies authorized to acquire firearms for official use, and may require additional written justification from the requesting agency.

(b) GSA may donate only surplus hand guns, rifles, shotguns, and individual light automatic weapons previously used by the Federal Government, with less than .50 caliber in Federal Supply Classification (FSC) 1005, and rifle and shoulder fired grenade launchers in FSC 1010, with a disposal condition code of 4 or better (see condition codes in ยง 102-36.240 of this subchapter). Only eligible law enforcement entities whose primary function is the enforcement of applicable Federal, state, and/or local laws, and whose compensated law enforcement officers have powers to apprehend and arrest, may obtain these donated firearms for law enforcement purposes.

(c)(1) For purposes of donation under paragraph (b) of this section, each Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property SF 123 must be accompanied by a conditional transfer document, signed by both the intended donee agency and the SASP, which includes the special terms, conditions, restrictions, and other forms or information required for the transfer of the donated firearms. Restrictions on donated firearms are perpetual and may not be amended by the SASP without prior written approval from GSA. Donated firearms must be released or shipped directly from the Federal donor agency to the designated donee.
