
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-40 - UTILIZATION AND DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart E - Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
####### § 102-40.180 How do we handle hazardous materials?
######## MSDS@gsa.gov,

(2) An automated database maintained by GSA Federal Acquisition Service contains MSDSs for all GSA-procured hazardous materials. To request an MSDS, you may send an email toor call, Toll Free: 866-588-7659, DSN: 465-5097, or Commercial: 816-926-5097.

(3) A collection of hazard-related information in DOD's HMIS provides transportation and disposal information.

(4) Appendix A to this part contains a list of the Federal Supply Classes (FSC) of property that are composed predominantly of hazardous items.

(5) When information is not available under paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, contact the manufacturer, the procuring agency, or your technical staff for assistance in obtaining the SDS, MSDS, or HMIS information.

(b) You must verify items with an expired shelf life or reclassify them as hazardous wastes when required by Federal, state, or local environmental laws or regulations. If the item has been determined hazardous, the owning Federal agency must document the accountable inventory record accordingly. If the item has not been appropriately labeled by the manufacturer or distributor, the owning agency must appropriately label, mark, or tag the item in accordance with OSHA requirements (29 CFR 1919.1200) regarding the actual potential hazard associated with the handling, storage, or use of the item.

(c) For transportation of hazardous materials, see 49 CFR parts 171 through 180.

(d) For disposal of hazardous materials, see §§ 102-40.35 through 102-40.125.

(e) Unless authorized by GSA, extremely hazardous property may not be sold unless it is rendered innocuous, mutilated or otherwise made safe. You should, however, render such property innocuous in a manner so as to preserve the maximum utility or commercial value of the property when possible.
