
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-40 - UTILIZATION AND DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart E - Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
####### ยง 102-40.195 How do we handle Munitions List Items (MLIs)?

(a) Munitions List Items (MLIs) are listed in 22 CFR part 121. A system of demilitarization codes identifies the extent of alteration or destruction necessary when transferring or selling MLIs. The appropriate code is normally assigned to items when they enter the supply system of the Department of Defense (DOD) or a civilian agency. Refer to DOD 4160.21-M-1 (Change No. 1) for a complete description of the DOD program and the requirements to be followed for property owned, procured by or under the control of DOD. The DOD manual is available from the Defense Logistics Agency, 8725 John J. Kingman Road, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060. If your agency uses another system of identifying items requiring demilitarization, you must provide a detailed description of that system to the General Services Administration, Mail Code MA, 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20405, Attn: Director, Personal Property Policy.

(b) When disposing of MLIs, you must perpetuate these demilitarization codes; alert those to whom you are transferring or selling property that the item may require demilitarization; and perform any required demilitarization, or provide any documentation or certifications in accordance with the DOD demilitarization manual, DOD 4160.21-M-1 (Change No. 1), or other agency policy manual if the MLIs are not governed by the DOD demilitarization manual.

(c) Disposal of MLIs will follow the provisions of parts 102-36, 102-37, and 102-38 of this subchapter unless different disposal procedures are required by law or your agency regulation issued in support of 22 U.S.C. 2778.
