
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-40 - UTILIZATION AND DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart E - Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
####### ยง 102-40.200 How do we handle Commerce Control List Items (CCLIs)?

(a) CCLIs are subject to the controls of 15 CFR parts 738 and 774. Export licenses are required for transfer of items to the countries listed in 15 CFR part 738, supp. 1. CCLIs may also be identified by the demilitarization code assigned to the item in the DOD supply system.

(b) When disposing of CCLIs, you must notify the recipient that the item may be subject to Department of Commerce export licensing requirements when transported out of the U.S., for reasons of national security, crime control, technology transfer, and scarcity of materials. Furthermore:

(1) The recipient must be informed that this notification must pass to all subsequent recipients of the item.

(2) When being sold, completed end-use certificates are required of all bidders. An end-use certificate is a statement signed by a prospective recipient indicating the intended designation and disposition of CCLIs to be acquired, and acknowledging U.S. export licensing requirements.

(3) All disposal activity must conform to the requirements of 15 CFR, chapter VII, subchapter C.
