
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-40 - UTILIZATION AND DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart E - Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
####### ยง 102-40.220 How do we handle polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)?
######## http://www.epa.gov/waste/hazard/tsd/pcbs/index.htm.

(a) In accordance with EPA regulations (40 CFR 761.1 and 761.3), property defined by EPA as excluded polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) products may be transferred, donated or sold in accordance with parts 102-36, 102-37, or 102-38 of this subchapter. For additional guidance on PCB classifications and other Federal restrictions, contact: Director, National Program Chemicals Division (NPCD), (7404), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC or visit the EPA's Web site at:You should also contact state regulatory agencies since some states regulate at a stricter level than the Federal Government.

(b) Property defined by the EPA in 40 CFR 761.3 as either a PCB item or PCB must be labeled or marked with a warning statement that the item contains PCB and must be handled and disposed of in accordance with EPA regulations (40 CFR part 761), DOT regulations (49 CFR parts 171 through 180), and applicable state laws.

(1) PCB items and PCBs may be transferred or donated, provided:

(i) The items are intact, non-leaking, and totally enclosed.

(ii) All transfers orders or transfer documents must cite the specific provision in 40 CFR part 761 that permits continued use of the item, and contains a certification that the property has been inspected by the transferee and complies with all the use, inspection, labeling, and other provisions of 40 CFR part 761.

(iii) The recipient must annotate its property accountability records to reflect the nature and extent of the PCB content and must provide the specific authorization covering the use of this item from 40 CFR part 761. If tests are conducted to ascertain the nature and extent of PCB contamination, the recipient must furnish the GSA regional office with a copy of the test results. This information will be perpetuated on any notification or release document when the agency disposes of the property.

(iv) If PCBs or PCB items are donated to service educational activities or to public airports, the Department of Defense and the Federal Aviation Administration, respectively, must obtain the warning and certification as described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(v) The recipient certifies to you that the item will be handled and disposed of in accordance with EPA regulation 40 CFR part 761, DOT regulations 49 CFR parts 171 through 180, and other applicable Federal and state laws.

(2) PCB and PCB items not transferred or donated must be destroyed or otherwise disposed of under EPA regulations and applicable state laws. You must not sell any PCB or PCB item unless 40 CFR part 761 authorizes the sale and continued use of the specific item.

(c) You must not transfer, donate, or sell items with an unknown level of concentrations of PCBs.

(d) Property containing PCBs and PCB items should be labeled with a warning such as the following:

(e) The SASP must have the following certification, or an equivalent certification, on all transfer paperwork where PCBs are involved.
