
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-41 - DISPOSITION OF SEIZED, FORFEITED, VOLUNTARILY ABANDONED, AND UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 102-41.5 What does this part cover?

(a) This part covers the disposition of seized, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, and unclaimed personal property under the custody of any Federal agency located in the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau. Disposition of such personal property located elsewhere must be in accordance with holding agency regulations. Please see ยง 102-36.380 of this subchapter B regarding the disposal of foreign excess. The General Services Administration (GSA) does not normally accept responsibility for disposal of property located outside the United States and its territories. Additional guidance on disposition of seized, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, and unclaimed personal property that requires special handling (e.g., firearms, hazardous materials) is contained in part 101-42 of this title. Additional guidance on the disposition of firearms (as scrap only), distilled spirits, wine, beer, and drug paraphernalia is provided in subpart E of this part.

(b) These regulations do not include disposal of seized, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, and unclaimed personal property covered under authorities outside of the following statutes:

(1) 40 U.S.C. 552, Abandoned or Unclaimed Property on Government Premises.

(2) 40 U.S.C. 1306, Disposition of Abandoned or Forfeited Property.

(3) 26 U.S.C. 5688, Forfeited Distilled Spirits, Wines, and Beer.

(4) 26 U.S.C. 5872, Forfeited Firearms.

(5) 21 U.S.C. 863, Drug Paraphernalia.
