
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-41 - DISPOSITION OF SEIZED, FORFEITED, VOLUNTARILY ABANDONED, AND UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart D - Unclaimed Personal Property
####### ยง 102-41.125 What choices do I have for retaining or disposing of unclaimed personal property?

You may either retain or dispose of unclaimed abandoned personal property based on the following circumstances:

(a) If your agency has a need for the property, you may retain it for official use if you have held the unclaimed property for 30 calendar days and the former owner has not filed a claim. After 30 days, title vests in the Government and you may retain the unclaimed property for official use. Large sedans and limousines which may only be retained for official use as authorized under part 102-34 of this subchapter B. See ยง 102-41.130 for how retained property must be handled.

(b) If your agency doesn't need the property, you should determine whether it may be immediately abandoned or destroyed in accordance with the provisions at FMR 102-36.305 through 102-36.330. You are not required to hold unclaimed property for 30 days, if you decide to abandon or destroy it. Title to the property immediately vests in the Government in these circumstances. In addition to the circumstances when property may be abandoned or destroyed without public notice at FMR 102-36.330, unclaimed personal property may also be abandoned or destroyed without public notice when the estimated resale value of the property is less than $500. See ยง 102-41.135 for procedures to be followed if a claim is filed.

(c) If the property is not retained for official use or abandoned or destroyed, you must report it to GSA as excess in accordance with ยง 102-41.140.
