
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter B - Personal Property
##### PART 102-42 - UTILIZATION, DONATION, AND DISPOSAL OF FOREIGN GIFTS AND DECORATIONS
###### Subpart C - Donation of Foreign Gifts and Decorations
####### ยง 102-42.130 Are there special requirements for the donation of gifts and decorations?

Yes, GSA imposes special handling and use limitations on the donation of gifts and decorations. The SASP distribution document must contain or incorporate by reference the following:

(a) The donee must display or use the gift or decoration in accordance with its GSA-approved letter of intent.

(b) There must be a period of restriction which will expire after the gift or decoration has been used for the purpose stated in the letter of intent for a period of 10 years, except that GSA may restrict the use of the gift or decoration for such other period when the inherent character of the property justifies such action.

(c) The donee must allow the right of access to the donee's premises at reasonable times for inspection of the gift or decoration by duly authorized representatives of the SASP or the U.S. Government.

(d) During the period of restriction, the donee must not:

(1) Sell, trade, lease, lend, bail, encumber, cannibalize or dismantle for parts, or otherwise dispose of the property;

(2) Remove it permanently for use outside the State;

(3) Transfer title to the gift or decoration directly or indirectly; or

(4) Do or allow anything to be done that would contribute to the gift or decoration being seized, attached, lost, stolen, damaged, or destroyed.

(e) If the gift or decoration is no longer suitable, usable, or needed by the donee for the stated purpose of donation during the period of restriction, the donee must promptly notify the General Services Administration, Property Management Division (FBP), Washington, DC 20406, through the SASP, and upon demand by GSA, title and right to possession of the gift or decoration reverts to the U.S. Government. In this event, the donee must comply with transfer or disposition instructions furnished by GSA through the SASP, and pay the costs of transportation, handling, and reasonable insurance during transportation.

(f) The donee must comply with all additional conditions covering the handling and use of any gift or decoration imposed by GSA.

(g) If the donee fails to comply with the conditions or limitations during the period of restriction, the SASP may demand return of the gift or decoration and, upon such demand, title and right to possession of the gift or decoration reverts to the U.S. Government. In this event, the donee must return the gift or decoration in accordance with instructions furnished by the SASP, with costs of transportation, handling, and reasonable insurance during transportation to be paid by the donee or as directed by the SASP.

(h) If the gift or decoration is lost, stolen, or cannot legally be recovered or returned for any other reason, the donee must pay to the U.S. Government the fair market value of the gift or decoration at the time of its loss, theft, or at the time that it became unrecoverable as determined by GSA. If the gift or decoration is damaged or destroyed, the SASP may require the donee to:

(1) Return the item and pay the difference between its former fair market value and its current fair market value; or

(2) Pay the fair market value, as determined by GSA, of the item had it not been damaged or destroyed.
