
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-71 - GENERAL
###### ยง 102-71.20 What definitions apply to GSA's real property policies?
####### Public building

means:

(1) Any building that is suitable for office and/or storage space for the use of one or more Federal agencies or mixed-ownership corporations, such as Federal office buildings, post offices, customhouses, courthouses, border inspection facilities, warehouses, and any such building designated by the President. It also includes buildings of this sort that are acquired by the Federal Government under the Administrator's installment-purchase, lease-purchase, and purchase-contract authorities.

(2) Public building does not include buildings:

(i) On the public domain.

(ii) In foreign countries.

(iii) On Indian and native Eskimo properties held in trust by the United States.

(iv) On lands used in connection with Federal programs for agricultural, recreational, and conservation purposes.

(v) On or used in connection with river, harbor, flood control, reclamation or power projects, or for chemical manufacturing or development projects, or for nuclear production, research, or development projects.

(vi) On or used in connection with housing and residential projects.

(vii) On military installations.

(viii) On Department of Veterans Affairs installations used for hospital or domiciliary purposes.

(ix) Excluded by the President.
