
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-72 - DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
###### Subpart B - Delegation of Authority
####### ยง 102-72.69 What additional terms and conditions apply to an Executive agencies' delegation of ancillary repair and alteration authority?

(a) Before commencing any ancillary repair and alteration work, the Executive agency shall deliver, or cause its contractor to deliver, to the building manager evidence that the contractor has obtained at least $5,000,000 comprehensive general public liability and property damage insurance policies to cover claims arising from or relating to the contractor's operations that cause damage to persons or property; such insurance shall name the United States as an additional insured.

(b) The Executive agency shall agree that GSA has no responsibility or liability, either directly or indirectly, for any contractual claims or disputes that arise out of or relate to the performance of ancillary repair and alteration work, except to the extent such claim or dispute arises out of or relates to the wrongful acts or negligence of GSA's agents or employees.

(c) The Executive agency shall agree to administer and defend any claims and actions, and shall be responsible for the payment of any judgments rendered or settlements agreed to, in connection with contract claims or other causes of action arising out of or relating to the performance of the ancillary repair and alteration work.

(d) For buildings under GSA's custody and control, GSA shall have the right, but not the obligation, to review the work from time to time to ascertain that it is being performed in accordance with the approved project requirements, schedules, plans, drawings, specifications, and other related construction documents. The Executive agency shall promptly correct, or cause to be corrected, any non-conforming work or property damage identified by GSA, including damage to the space or property of any other tenant in the building, at no cost or expense to GSA.

(e) The Executive agency shall remain liable and financially responsible to GSA for any and all personal or property damage caused, in whole or in part, by the acts or omissions of the Executive agency, its employees, agents, and contractors.

(f) If the cost or expense to GSA to operate the facility is increased as a result of the ancillary repair and alteration project, the Executive agency shall be responsible for any such costs or expenses.

(g) Disputes between the Executive agency and GSA arising out of the ancillary repair and alteration work will, to the maximum extent practicable, be resolved informally at the working level. In the event a dispute cannot be resolved informally, the matter shall be referred to GSA's Public Buildings Service. The Executive agency agrees that, in the event GSA's Public Buildings Service and the Executive agency fail to resolve the dispute, they shall refer it for resolution to the Administrator of General Services, whose decision shall be binding.
