
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 50 - Public Contracts, Department of Labor
#### PART 50-203 - RULES OF PRACTICE
##### Subpart A - Proceedings Under Section 5 of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act
###### ยง 50-203.8 Hearing.

(a) The hearing for the purpose of taking evidence upon a formal complaint shall be conducted by an administrative law judge. Administrative law judges shall, so far as practicable, be assigned to cases in rotation. In case of the death, illness, disqualification or unavailability of the administrative law judge presiding in any proceeding, another administrative law judge may be designated to take his place. Such hearings shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge.

(b) The administrative law judges shall perform no duties inconsistent with their duties and responsibilities as administrative law judges. Save to the extent required for the disposition of ex parte matters as authorized by law, no administrative law judge shall consult any person or party as to any fact in issue unless upon notice and opportunity for all parties to participate.

(c) Administrative law judges shall act independently in the performance of their functions as administrative law judge and shall not be responsible to, or subject to the supervision or direction of, any officer, employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the Department of Labor in the enforcement of the Public Contracts Act.

(d) At all hearings it shall be the right of counsel for the Government to open and close, subject to the right of the administrative law judge to designate, upon cause shown, who shall open and close.

(e) It shall be the duty of the administrative law judge to inquire fully into the facts as to whether the respondent has breached or violated any of the provisions of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act of June 30, 1936 (49 Stat. 2036, as amended; 41 U.S.C. 35-45), or any rules or regulations prescribed thereunder, as set forth in the formal complaint. Counsel for the Government, and the administrative law judge, shall have the power to call, examine, and cross-examine witnesses and to introduce into the record documentary or other evidence.

(f) Any party to the proceeding shall have the right to appear at such hearing in person, by counsel, or otherwise, to call, examine, and cross-examine witnesses, and to introduce into the record documentary or other evidence.

(g) In any such proceedings, the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling. However, it shall be the policy to exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.

(h) In any such proceedings, in the discretion of the administrative law judge, stipulations of fact may be made with respect to any issue.

(i) Any objection with respect to the conduct of the hearing, including any objection to the introduction of evidence, shall be stated orally, together with a short statement of the grounds for such objection, and included in the stenographic report of the hearing. No such objection shall be deemed waived by further participation in the proceeding.

(j) Unless the administrative law judge otherwise directs, any party to the proceeding shall be entitled to a reasonable period at the close of the hearing for oral argument, which shall not be included in the stenographic report of the hearing unless the administrative law judge directs.

(k) In the discretion of the administrative law judge, the hearing may be continued from day to day, or adjourned to a later date, or to a different place, by announcement thereof at the hearing by the administrative law judge, or by other appropriate notice.

(l) Contemptuous conduct at any hearing before an administrative law judge shall be ground for exclusion from the hearing. The failure or refusal of a witness to appear at any such hearing or to answer any question which has been ruled to be proper shall be ground for the action provided in section 5 of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act of June 30, 1936 (sec. 5, 49 Stat. 2039; 41 U.S.C. 39), and in the discretion of the administrative law judge may be ground for the striking out of all testimony which may have been previously given by such witness on related matters.
