
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-73 - REAL ESTATE ACQUISITION
###### Subpart C - Acquisition by Purchase or Condemnation
####### Buildings
######## ยง 102-73.255 What factors must Executive agencies consider when purchasing sites?

Agencies must locate proposed Federal buildings on sites that are most advantageous to the United States. Executive agencies must consider factors such as whether the site will contribute to economy and efficiency in the construction, maintenance, and operation of the individual building, and how the proposed site relates to the Government's total space needs in the community. Prior to acquiring, constructing, or leasing buildings (or sites for such buildings), Federal agencies must use, to the maximum extent feasible, historic properties available to the agency. In site selections, Executive agencies must consider Executive Order 12072 (August 16, 1978, 43 FR 36869) and Executive Order 13006 (40 U.S.C. 3306 note). In addition, Executive agencies must consider all of the following:

(a) Maximum utilization of Government-owned land (including excess land) whenever it is adequate, economically adaptable to requirements and properly located, where such use is consistent with the provisions of part 102-75, subpart B, of this chapter.

(b) A site adjacent to or in the proximity of an existing Federal building that is well located and is to be retained for long-term occupancy.

(c) The environmental condition of proposed sites prior to purchase. The sites must be free from contamination, unless it is otherwise determined to be in the best interests of the Government to purchase a contaminated site (e.g., reuse of a site under an established "Brownfields" program).

(d) Purchase options to secure the future availability of a site.

(e) All applicable location policies in this part and part 102-83 of this chapter.
