
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 50 - Public Contracts, Department of Labor
#### PART 50-203 - RULES OF PRACTICE
##### Subpart A - Proceedings Under Section 5 of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act
###### ยง 50-203.10 Decision of the administrative law judge.

(a) Following the hearing and upon completion of the record, the administrative law judge shall issue an order and decision embodying his findings of fact and conclusions of law on all issues as to whether respondent has violated the representations and stipulations of the act and the amount of damages due therefor, which shall become final, unless a petition for review is filed under ยง 50-203.11, before the expiration of the time provided for the filing of such petition. The decision of the administrative law judge shall be inoperative unless and until it becomes final. If the respondent is found to have violated the act, the administrative law judge in his decision shall make recommendations to the Administrative Review Board as to whether respondent should be relieved from the application of the ineligible list provisions of section 3 of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act of June 30, 1936 (sec. 3, 49 Stat. 2037; 41 U.S.C. 37).

(b) The decision of the administrative law judge shall be made part of the record, and a copy thereof shall be served upon the respondent or respondents by mailing a copy thereof by registered mail to the respondent or respondents or to the attorney or attorneys of record. Upon request from employees or other interested persons, the decision will be served upon such persons, and in the discretion of the administrative law judge, the decision will be served upon such other persons or their attorneys who appeared at the hearing or upon brief by mailing a copy thereof to such persons.
