
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-75 - REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL
###### Subpart B - Utilization of Excess Real Property
####### Temporary Utilization
######## ยง 102-75.240 May excess real property be temporarily assigned/reassigned?

Yes, whenever GSA determines that it is more advantageous to assign property temporarily rather than permanently, it may do so. If the space is for office, storage, or related facilities, GSA will determine the length of the assignment/reassignment. Agencies are required to reimburse the landholding agency (or GSA, if GSA has become responsible for seeking an appropriation for protection and maintenance expenses) (see ยง 102-75.970) for protection and maintenance expenses. GSA may also temporarily assign/reassign excess real property for uses other than storage, office or related facilities. In such cases, the agency receiving the temporary assignment may be required to pay a rental or users charge based upon the fair market value of the property, as determined by GSA. If the property will be required by the agency for a period of more than 1 year, it may be transferred on a conditional basis, with an understanding that the property will be reported excess at an agreed upon time (see ยง 102-75.85). The requesting agency is responsible for protection and maintenance expenses.
