
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 50 - Public Contracts, Department of Labor
#### PART 50-203 - RULES OF PRACTICE
##### Subpart A - Proceedings Under Section 5 of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act
###### ยง 50-203.11 Review.

(a) Within twenty (20) days after service of the decision of the administrative law judge any interested party to the proceeding may file with the Chief administrative law judge an original and four copies of a petition for review of the decision. The petition shall set out separately and particularly each error assigned. The request for review and the record will then be certified to the Administrative Review Board.

(b) The petitioner may file a brief (original and four copies) in support of his petition within the period allowed for the filing of the petition. Any interested person upon whom the decision has been served may file within ten (10) days after the expiration of the period within which the petition is required to be filed a brief in support of or in opposition to the administrative law judge's decision.

(c) The petition and the briefs filed under this section shall make specific reference to the pages of the transcript or of the exhibits which are relevant to the errors asserted with respect to findings of fact, and objections to such findings which are not so supported will not be considered.

(d) No matter properly subject to objection before the administrative law judge will be considered by the Administrative Review Board unless it shall have been raised before the administrative law judge or unless there were reasonable grounds for failure so to do; nor will any matter be considered by the Administrative Review Board unless included in the assignment or errors. In the discretion of the Administrative Review Board, review may be denied if the petition and brief in support thereof fail to show adequate cause for such review.

(e) The order denying review, or the decision of the Administrative Review Board, whichever is entered, will be made a part of the record, and a copy of such order or decision will be served upon the parties who were served with a copy of the administrative law judge's decision.

(f) If the respondent is found to have violated the Act, the Administrative Review Board shall determine whether respondent shall be relieved from the application of the ineligible list provisions of section 3 of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act (sec. 4, 49 Stat. 2039; 41 U.S.C. 37).
