
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-75 - REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL
###### Subpart C - Surplus Real Property Disposal
####### Property for Use as Public Park or Recreation Areas
######## ยง 102-75.690 What happens if property that was transferred for use as a public park or recreation area is revested in the United States by reason of noncompliance with the terms or conditions of disposal, or for other cause?

DOI must notify the appropriate GSA regional office immediately by letter when title to property transferred for use as a public park or recreation area is to be revested in the United States for noncompliance with the terms or conditions of disposal or for other cause. The notification must cite the legal and administrative actions that DOI must take to obtain full title and possession of the property. In addition, it must include an adequate description of the property, using the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118) and the appropriate schedules. After receiving notice from DOI that title to the property is proposed for revesting, GSA will review the statement and determine if title should be revested. If GSA, in consultation with DOI, determines that the property should be revested, DOI must submit a Standard Form 118 to GSA. GSA will review and act upon the Standard Form 118, if acceptable. However, the grantee must provide protection and maintenance for the property until the title reverts to the Federal Government, including the period of any notice of intent to revert. Such protection and maintenance must, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal.
