
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-75 - REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL
###### Subpart C - Surplus Real Property Disposal
####### Property for Correctional Facility, Law Enforcement, or Emergency Management Response Purposes
######## ยง 102-75.815 What happens if property conveyed for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes is found to be in noncompliance with the terms of the conveyance documents?

OJP or FEMA must, prior to the repossession, provide the appropriate GSA regional property disposal office with an accurate description of the real and related personal property involved. OJP or FEMA must use the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118), and the appropriate schedules for this purpose. After receiving a statement from OJP or FEMA that the title to the property is proposed for revesting, GSA will review the statement and determine if title should be revested. If GSA, in consultation with OJP or FEMA, determines that the property should be revested, OJP or FEMA must submit a Standard Form 118 to GSA. GSA will review and act upon the Standard Form 118, if acceptable. However, the grantee must provide protection and maintenance for the property until the title reverts to the Federal Government, including the period following any notice of intent to revert. Such protection and maintenance must, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal.
