
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-75 - REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL
###### Subpart H - Use of Federal Real Property to Assist the Homeless
####### Applicability
######## ยง 102-75.1165 What is the applicability of this subpart?

(a) This part applies to Federal real property that has been designated by Federal landholding agencies as unutilized, underutilized, excess, or surplus, and is, therefore, subject to the provisions of title V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 11411).

(b) The following categories of properties are not subject to this subpart (regardless of whether they may be unutilized or underutilized):

(1) Machinery and equipment.

(2) Government-owned, contractor-operated machinery, equipment, land, and other facilities reported excess for sale only to the using contractor and subject to a continuing military requirement.

(3) Properties subject to special legislation directing a particular action.

(4) Properties subject to a court order.

(5) Property not subject to survey requirements of Executive Order 12512 (April 29, 1985).

(6) Mineral rights interests.

(7) Air Space interests.

(8) Indian Reservation land subject to 40 U.S.C. 523.

(9) Property interests subject to reversion.

(10) Easements.

(11) Property purchased in whole or in part with Federal funds, if title to the property is not held by a Federal landholding agency as defined in this part.
