
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-75 - REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL
###### Subpart H - Use of Federal Real Property to Assist the Homeless
####### Real Property Reported Excess to GSA
######## § 102-75.1180 For the purposes of this subpart, what is the policy concerning real property reported excess to GSA?

(a) Each landholding agency must submit a report to GSA of properties it determines excess. Each landholding agency must also provide a copy of HUD's suitability determination, if any, including HUD's identification number for the property.

(b) If a landholding agency reports a property to GSA that has been reviewed by HUD for homeless assistance suitability and HUD determined the property suitable, GSA will screen the property pursuant to § 102-75.1180(g) and will advise HUD of the availability of the property for use by the homeless as provided in § 102-75.1180(e). In lieu of the above, GSA may submit a new checklist to HUD and follow the procedures in § 102-75.1180(c) through § 102-75.1180(g).

(c) If a landholding agency reports a property to GSA that has not been reviewed by HUD for homeless assistance suitability, GSA will complete a property checklist, based on information provided by the landholding agency, and will forward this checklist to HUD for a suitability determination. This checklist will reflect any change in classification, i.e., from unutilized or underutilized to excess.

(d) Within 30 days after GSA's submission, HUD will advise GSA of the suitability determination.

(e) When GSA receives a letter from HUD listing suitable excess properties in GSA's inventory, GSA will transmit to HUD within 45 days a response that includes the following for each identified property:

(1) A statement that there is no other compelling Federal need for the property and, therefore, the property will be determined surplus; or

(2) A statement that there is further and compelling Federal need for the property (including a full explanation of such need) and that, therefore, the property is not presently available for use to assist the homeless.

(f) When an excess property is determined suitable and available and notice is published in theGSA will concurrently notify HHS, HUD, State and local government units, known homeless assistance providers that have expressed interest in the particular property, and other organizations, as appropriate, concerning suitable properties.

(g) Upon submission of a Report of Excess to GSA, GSA may screen the property for Federal use. In addition, GSA may screen State and local governmental units and eligible non-profit organizations to determine interest in the property in accordance with current regulations. (See GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal.)

(h) The landholding agency will retain custody and accountability and will protect and maintain any property that is reported excess to GSA as provided in § 102-75.965.
