
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-75 - REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL
###### Subpart H - Use of Federal Real Property to Assist the Homeless
####### Public Notice of Determination
######## ยง 102-75.1195 What is the policy concerning making public the notice of determination?

(a) No later than 15 days after the last-45 day period has elapsed for receiving responses from the landholding agencies regarding availability, HUD will publish in thea list of all properties reviewed, including a description of the property, its address, and classification. The following designations will be made:

(1) Properties that are suitable and available.

(2) Properties that are suitable and unavailable.

(3) Properties that are suitable and to be declared excess.

(4) Properties that are unsuitable.

(b) Information about specific properties can be obtained by contacting HUD at the following toll free number: 1-800-927-7588.

(c) HUD will transmit to the ICH a copy of the list of all properties published in theThe ICH will immediately distribute to all state and regional homeless coordinators area-relevant portions of the list. The ICH will encourage the state and regional homeless coordinators to disseminate this information widely.

(d) No later than February 15 of each year, HUD will publish in thea list of all properties reported pursuant to ยง 102-75.1170(b).

(e) HUD will publish an annual list of properties determined suitable, but that agencies reported unavailable, including the reasons such properties are not available.

(f) Copies of the lists published in thewill be available for review by the public in the HUD headquarters building library (room 8141); area-relevant portions of the lists will be available in the HUD regional offices and in major field offices.
