
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-75 - REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL
###### Subpart H - Use of Federal Real Property to Assist the Homeless
####### Application Process
######## ยง 102-75.1200 How may representatives of the homeless apply for the use of properties to assist the homeless?
######### Holding period.

(a)(1) Properties published as available for application for use to assist the homeless shall not be available for any other purpose for a period of 60 days beginning on the date of publication. Any representative of the homeless interested in any underutilized, unutilized, excess or surplus Federal property for use as a facility to assist the homeless must send to HHS a written expression of interest in that property within 60 days after the property has been published in the

(2) If a written expression of interest to apply for suitable property for use to assist the homeless is received by HHS within the 60-day holding period, such property may not be made available for any other purpose until the date HHS or the appropriate landholding agency has completed action on the application submitted pursuant to that expression of interest.

(3) The expression of interest should identify the specific property, briefly describe the proposed use, the name of the organization, and indicate whether it is a public body or a private, non-profit organization. The expression of interest must be sent to the Division of Health Facilities Planning (DHFP) of the Department of Health and Human Services at the following address: Director, Division of Health Facilities Planning, Public Health Service, Room 17A-10, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. HHS will notify the landholding agency (for unutilized and underutilized properties) or GSA (for excess and surplus properties) when an expression of interest has been received for a particular property.

(4) An expression of interest may be sent to HHS any time after the 60-day holding period has expired. In such a case, an application submitted pursuant to this expression of interest may be approved for use by the homeless if-

(i) No application or written expression of interest has been made under any law for use of the property for any purpose; and

(ii) In the case of excess or surplus property, GSA has not received a bona fide offer to purchase that property or advertised for the sale of the property by public auction.
