
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-75 - REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL
###### Subpart H - Use of Federal Real Property to Assist the Homeless
####### Action on Approved Applications
######## ยง 102-75.1205 What action must be taken on approved applications?
######### Excess and surplus properties.

(b)(1) When HHS approves an application, it will so notify the applicant and request that GSA assign the property to HHS for leasing. Upon receipt of the assignment, HHS will execute a lease in accordance with the procedures and requirements set out in 45 CFR part 12. In accordance with ยง 102-75.965, custody and accountability of the property will remain throughout the lease term with the agency that initially reported the property as excess.

(2) Prior to assignment to HHS, GSA may consider other Federal uses and other important national needs; however, in deciding the disposition of surplus real property, GSA will generally give priority of consideration to uses to assist the homeless. GSA may consider any competing request for the property made under 40 U.S.C. 550 (education, health, public park or recreation, and historic monument uses) that is so meritorious and compelling that it outweighs the needs of the homeless, and HHS may likewise consider any competing request made under 40 U.S.C. 550(c) or (d) (education and health uses).

(3) Whenever GSA or HHS decides in favor of a competing request over a request for property for homeless assistance use as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the agency making the decision will transmit to the appropriate committees of the Congress an explanatory statement that details the need satisfied by conveyance of the surplus property, and the reasons for determining that such need was so meritorious and compelling as to outweigh the needs of the homeless.
