
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-76 - DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### § 102-76.10 What basic design and construction policy governs Federal agencies?

Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, are bound by the following basic design and construction policies:

(a) Provide the highest quality services for designing and constructing new Federal facilities and for repairing and altering existing Federal facilities. These services must be timely, efficient, and cost effective.

(b) Use a distinguished architectural style and form in Federal facilities that reflects the dignity, enterprise, vigor and stability of the Federal Government.

(c) Follow nationally recognized model building codes and other applicable nationally recognized codes that govern Federal construction to the maximum extent feasible and consider local building code requirements. (See 40 U.S.C. 3310 and 3312.)

(d) Design Federal buildings to have a long life expectancy and accommodate periodic changes due to renovations.

(e) Make buildings cost effective, energy efficient, and accessible to and usable by the physically disabled.

(f) Provide for building service equipment that is accessible for maintenance, repair, or replacement without significantly disturbing occupied space.

(g) Consider ease of operation when selecting mechanical and electrical equipment.

(h) Agencies must follow the prospectus submission and approval policy identified in §§ 102-73.35 and 102-73.40 of this chapter.
