
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-76 - DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
###### Subpart B - Design and Construction
####### ยง 102-76.25 What standards must Federal agencies meet in providing architectural and interior design services?

Federal agencies must design distinctive and high quality Federal facilities that meet all of the following standards:

(a) Reflect the local architecture in buildings through the use of building form, materials, colors, or detail. Express a quality of permanence in the building interior similar to the building exterior.

(b) Provide individuals with disabilities ready access to, and use of, the facilities in accordance with the standards in ยง 102-76.65.

(c) Use metric specifications in construction where the metric system is the accepted industry standard, and to the extent that such usage is economically feasible and practical.

(d) Provide for the design of security systems to protect Federal workers and visitors and to safeguard facilities against criminal activity and/or terrorist activity. Security design must support the continuity of Government operations during civil disturbances, natural disasters and other emergency situations.

(e) Design and construct facilities that meet or exceed the energy performance standards applicable to Federal buildings in 10 CFR part 435.
