
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-76 - DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
###### Subpart C - Architectural Barriers Act
####### ยง 102-76.65 What standards must facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act meet?

(a) GSA adopts appendices C and D to 36 CFR part 1191 (ABA Chapters 1 and 2, and Chapters 3 through 10) as the Architectural Barriers Act Accessibility Standard (ABAAS). Facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act (other than facilities described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section) must comply with ABAAS as set forth below:

(1) For construction or alteration of facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act (other than Federal lease-construction and other lease actions described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3), respectively, of this section), compliance with ABAAS is required if the construction or alteration commenced after May 8, 2006. If the construction or alteration of such a facility commenced on or before May 8, 2006, compliance with the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) is required.

(2) For Federal lease-construction actions subject to the Architectural Barriers Act, where the Government expressly requires new construction to meet its needs, compliance with ABAAS is required for all such leases awarded on or after June 30, 2006. UFAS compliance is required for all such leases awarded before June 30, 2006.

(3) For all other lease actions subject to the Architectural Barriers Act (other than those described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section), compliance with ABAAS is required for all such leases awarded pursuant to solicitations issued after February 6, 2007. UFAS compliance is required for all such leases awarded pursuant to solicitations issued on or before February 6, 2007.

(b) Residential facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act must meet the standards prescribed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(c) Department of Defense and United States Postal Service facilities subject to the Architectural Barriers Act must meet the standards prescribed by those agencies.
