
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-80 - SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Safety and Environmental Management
####### Asbestos
######## ยง 102-80.15 What are Federal agencies' responsibilities concerning the assessment and management of asbestos?

Federal agencies have the following responsibilities concerning the assessment and management of asbestos:

(a) Inspect and assess buildings for the presence and condition of asbestos-containing materials. Space to be leased must be free of all asbestos containing materials, except undamaged asbestos flooring in the space or undamaged boiler or pipe insulation outside the space, in which case an asbestos management program conforming to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) guidance must be implemented.

(b) Manage in-place asbestos that is in good condition and not likely to be disturbed.

(c) Abate damaged asbestos and asbestos likely to be disturbed. Federal agencies must perform a pre-alteration asbestos assessment for activities that may disturb asbestos.

(d) Not use asbestos in new construction, renovation/modernization or repair of their owned or leased space. Unless approved by GSA, Federal agencies must not obtain space with asbestos through purchase, exchange, transfer, or lease, except as identified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) Communicate all written and oral asbestos information about the leased space to tenants.
