
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-83 - LOCATION OF SPACE
###### Appendix to Part 102-83 - Memorandum of Understanding Between the Department Of Housing And Urban Development And the General Services Administration Concerning Low- And Moderate-Income Housing
####### Government-owned Public Buildings Projects.

(c)(1) In the planning for each new public buildings project under the Public Buildings Act of 1959, during the survey preliminary to the preparation and submission of a project development report, representatives of the regional office of GSA in which the project is proposed will consult with, and receive advice from, the regional office of HUD, and local planning and housing authorities concerning the present and planned availability of low- and moderate-income housing on a nondiscriminatory basis in the area where the project is to be located. Such advice will constitute the principal basis for GSA's consideration of the availability of such housing in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 9(a). A copy of the prospectus for each project which is authorized by the Committees on Public Works of the Congress in accordance with the requirements of section 7(a) of the Public Buildings Act of 1959, will be provided to HUD.

(2) When a site investigation for an authorized public buildings project is conducted by regional representatives of GSA to identify a site on which the public building will be constructed, a representative from the regional office of HUD will participate in the site investigation for the purposes of providing a report on the availability of low- and moderate-income housing on a nondiscriminatory basis in the area of the investigation. Such report will constitute the principal basis for GSA's consideration of the availability of such housing in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 9(a).

(d) Major lease actions having a significant socioeconomic impact on a community: At the time GSA and the agencies who will occupy the space have tentatively delineated the general area in which the leased space must be located in order that the agencies may effectively perform their missions and programs, the regional representative of HUD will be consulted by the regional representative of GSA who is responsible for the leasing action to obtain advice from HUD concerning the availability of low- and moderate-income housing on a nondiscriminatory basis to the delineated area. Such advice will constitute the principal basis for GSA's consideration of the availability of such housing in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 9(a). Copies of lease-construction prospectuses approved by the Committees on Public Works of the Congress in conformity with the provisions of the Independent Offices and Department of Housing and Urban Development appropriation acts, will be provided to HUD.

(e) GSA and HUD will each issue internal operating procedures to implement this memorandum of understanding within a reasonable time after its execution. These procedures shall recognize the right of HUD, in the event of a disagreement between HUD and GSA representatives at the area or regional level, to bring such disagreement to the attention of GSA officials at headquarters in sufficient time to assure full consideration of HUD's views, prior to the making of a determination by GSA.

(f) In the event a decision is made by GSA as to the location of a federally constructed building or leased space, and HUD has made findings, expressed in the advice given or a report made to GSA, that the availability to such location of low- and moderate-income housing on a nondiscriminatory basis is inadequate, the GSA shall provide the DHUD with a written explanation why the location was selected.

(g) Whenever the advice or report provided by HUD in accordance with paragraph 9(c)(1), 9(c)(2), or 9(d) with respect to an area or site indicates that the supply of low-and moderate-income housing on a nondiscriminatory basis is inadequate to meet the needs of the personnel of the agency involved, GSA and HUD will develop an affirmative action plan designed to insure that an adequate supply of such housing will be available before the building or space is to be occupied or within a period of 6 months thereafter. The plan should provide for commitments from the community involved to initiate and carry out all feasible efforts to obtain a sufficient quantity of low- and moderate-income housing available to the agency's personnel on a nondiscriminatory basis with adequate access to the location of the building or space. It should include commitments by the local officials having the authority to remove obstacles to the provision of such housing, when such obstacles exist, and to take effective steps to assure its provision. The plan should also set forth the steps proposed by the agency to develop and implement a counseling and referral service to seek out and assist its personnel to obtain such housing. As part of any plan during, as well as after its development, HUD agrees to give priority consideration to applications for assistance under its housing programs for the housing proposed to be provided in accordance with the plan.

10. This memorandum will be reviewed at the end of one year, and modified to incorporate any provision necessary to improve its effectiveness in light of actual experience.
