
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-85 - PRICING POLICY FOR OCCUPANCY IN GSA SPACE
###### Subpart A - Pricing Policy - General
####### ยง 102-85.15 What are the basic policies for charging Rent for space and services?

(a) GSA will charge for space and services furnished by GSA (unless otherwise exempted by the Administrator of General Services) a Rent charge which will approximate commercial charges for comparable space and services. Rent for all assignments for GSA-controlled space will be priced according to the principles of the pricing policy in this part. These principles are reflected in the following elements of GSA Rent charges:

(1) "Shell" Rent based on approximate commercial charges for comparable space and services for Federally owned space (accomplished using appraisal procedures);

(2) Rent based on actual cost of the lease, including the costs (if any) of services not provided by the lessor, plus a GSA fee;

(3) Amortization of any tenant improvement allowance used;

(4) Any applicable real estate taxes, operating costs, parking, security and joint use fees; and

(5) For certain projects involving new construction or major renovation of Federally-owned buildings, a return on investment pricing approach if an appraisal-determined rental value does not provide a minimum return (OMB discount rate for calculating the present value of yearly costs plus 2%) on the cost of the prospective capital investment. Each specific use of Return on Investment (ROI) pricing must be approved by OMB and duly recorded in an Occupancy Agreement (OA) with the customer agency. Once the ROI methodology is employed to establish Rent for a capital investment, the ROI method must be retained for the duration of the OA term.

(b) Special services not included in the standard levels of service may be provided by GSA on a reimbursable basis. GSA may also furnish alterations on a reimbursable basis in buildings where GSA is responsible for alterations only.

(c) The financial terms and conditions under which GSA assigns, and a customer agency occupies, each block of GSA-controlled space, shall be documented in a written OA.
