
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-85 - PRICING POLICY FOR OCCUPANCY IN GSA SPACE
###### Subpart A - Pricing Policy - General
####### ยง 102-85.35 What definitions apply to this part?
######## Security fees

mean Rent charges for building services provided by GSA's Federal Protective Service. Security fees are comprised of basic and building specific charges.

(a) A basic security fee is assessed in all PBS-controlled properties where the Federal Protective Service (FPS) provides security services. The rate is set annually on a per-square-foot basis. The charge includes the following services:

(1) General law enforcement on PBS-controlled property;

(2) Physical security assessments;

(3) Crime prevention and awareness training;

(4) Advice and assistance to building security committees;

(5) Intelligence sharing program;

(6) Criminal investigation;

(7) Assistance and coordination in Occupancy Emergency Plan development;

(8) Coordination of mobilization and response to terrorist threat or civil disturbance;

(9) Program administration for security guard contracts; and

(10) Megacenter operations for monitoring building perimeter alarms and dispatching appropriate law enforcement response.

(b) The building specific security charge is comprised of two elements: Operating expenses and amortized capital costs. Building specific charges, whether operating expenses or capital costs, are distributed overall federal users by building or facility in direct proportion to each customer agency's percentage of federal occupancy. As with joint use charges, the distribution of building-specific charges among customer agencies is not re-adjusted for vacancy.
