
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-85 - PRICING POLICY FOR OCCUPANCY IN GSA SPACE
###### Subpart B - Occupancy Agreement
####### ยง 102-85.75 When can space assignments be terminated?

(a) Customer agencies can terminate any space assignments, except those designated as non-cancelable, with the following stipulations:

(1) The agency must give GSA written notice at least four months prior to termination.

(2) The agency is responsible for reimbursing GSA for the unpaid balance of the cost of tenant improvements, generally prior to GSA releasing the agency from the space assignment. In the event the customer agency received a rent concession (e.g., free rent) at the inception of the assignment as part of the consideration for the entire lease term, then the amount of the concession applicable to the remaining term must be repaid to GSA.

(3) If the space to be vacated is ready for occupancy by another customer and marketable, GSA accepts the termination of assignment.

(4) If the agency has vacated all of the space and removed all personal property and equipment from the space by the cancellation date in the written notice, the agency will be released effective that date from further Rent payments.

(5) An agency may terminate a GSA space assignment with less than a four-month advance written notice to GSA, if:

(i) Either GSA or the terminating agency has identified another agency customer for the assigned space and that substitute agency wants and is able to fully assume the Rent payments due from the terminating agency; and

(ii) The terminating agency continues to pay Rent until the new agency starts paying Rent.

(b) GSA can terminate space assignments according to GSA regulations for emergency or forced moves.

(c) OAs terminate automatically at expiration.
