
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-85 - PRICING POLICY FOR OCCUPANCY IN GSA SPACE
###### Subpart D - Rent Charges
####### ยง 102-85.115 How is the Rent determined?

Unless an exemption is granted under the authority of the Administrator of General Services, the Rent charged approximates commercial charges for comparable space and space-related services as follows:

(a) Generally, Rent for Federally owned space provided by GSA is based on market appraisals of fully serviced rental values for the predominant use to which space in a building is put; e.g., general use, warehouse use, and parking use. In cases where market appraisals are not practical; e.g., in cases involving unique space or when market comparables are not available, GSA may establish Rent on the basis of alternate commercial practices. See the discussion of alternate valuation methods in ยง 102-85.125. Amortization of tenant improvements, parking fees, and security charges are calculated separately and added to the appraised shell Rent to establish the Rent charge. Customer agencies also pay for a pro rata share of joint use space.

(b) Generally, Rent for space leased by GSA is based on the actual cost of the lease, including the costs (if any) of services not provided by the lessor, plus a GSA fee, and security charges and parking (if not in the lease).

(1) The Rent is based on the terms and conditions of the OA, starting with the shell Rent.

(2) In addition to the shell Rent, the Rent includes amortization of TI allowances used, real estate taxes, operating costs, extra services, parking, GSA fee for its services, and charges for security, joint-use, and other applicable rental charges (e.g., antenna site, land, wareyard).
