
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-85 - PRICING POLICY FOR OCCUPANCY IN GSA SPACE
###### Subpart D - Rent Charges
####### ยง 102-85.140 How are changes in Rent reflected in OAs?

(a) If Rent changes in ways that are identified in the OA, then no change to the OA is required. Typically, OAs state that certain components of Rent are subject to annual escalation; e.g., operating expenses, real estate taxes, parking charges, the basic security charge, and building-specific security operating and amortized capital expenses which do not entail a change in service level. Also, in Federally-owned space, OAs state that the shell rent is re-marked to market every five years. In leased space, the OA will identify any programmed changes in the lease contract rent (such as pre-set increases or steps in the contract rent rate) that will translate into a change in the customer agency's Rent. Changes in Rent specified in OAs will serve as notice to agencies of future Rent changes for budgeting purposes. For a discussion of budgeting for Rent, see ยง 102-85.160.

(b) Changes to Rent other than those identified in paragraph (a) of this section typically require an amended OA. There are many events that might occasion a change in Rent, and an amended OA, such as:

(1) An agency expands or contracts at an existing location;

(2) PBS agrees to fund additional tenant improvements that are then amortized over the remaining OA term, or over an extended OA term;

(3) Upon physical re-measurement, the true square footage of the space assignment is found to be different from the square footage of record;

(4) The amount of joint use space in the building changes;

(5) The level of building-specific security services changes; or

(6) PBS undertakes new capital expenditures for new or enhanced security countermeasures.
