
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-85 - PRICING POLICY FOR OCCUPANCY IN GSA SPACE
###### Subpart D - Rent Charges
####### ยง 102-85.155 What does a customer agency do if it does not agree with a Rent bill?

(a) If a customer agency does not agree with the way GSA has determined its Rent obligation (e.g., the agency does not agree with GSA's space classification, appraised Rent, or the allocation of space), the agency may appeal its Rent bill to GSA.

(b) GSA will not increase or otherwise change Rent for any assignment, except as agreed in an OA, in the case of errors, or when the OA is amended. However, customer agencies may at any time request a regional review of the measurement, classification, service levels provided, or charges assessed that pertain to the space assignment without resorting to formal procedures. Such requests do not constitute appeals and should be directed to the appropriate GSA Regional Administrator.

(c) If a customer agency still wants to pursue a formal appeal of Rent charges, they may do so, but with the following limitations:

(1) Terms, including rates, to which the parties agree in an OA are not appealable;

(2) In leased space, the contract rent passed through from the underlying lease cannot be appealed;

(3) In GSA-owned space, when the fully-serviced shell Rent is established through appraisal, the appraised rate must exceed comparable commercial square foot rates by 20 percent. When shell Rent in owned space is established on the basis of ROI at the inception of an OA, and the customer agency executes the OA, then the ROI rate cannot later be appealed. Other components of Rent that are established on the basis of actual cost-eg., amortization of TIs and building specific security charges-also cannot be appealed.

(4) Additionally, the customer agency is required to compare its assigned space with other space in the surrounding community that:

(i) Is available in similar size block of space in a comparable location;

(ii) Is comparable in quality to the space provided by GSA;

(iii) Provides similar service levels as part of the charges;

(iv) Contains similar contractual terms, conditions, and escalations clauses; and

(v) Represents a lease transaction completed at a similar point in time.

(5) Data from at least three comparable locations will be necessary to demonstrate a market trend sufficient to warrant revising an appraised Rent charge.

(d) A customer agency filing an appeal for a particular location or building must develop documentation supporting the appeal and file the appeal with the appropriate Regional Administrator. The GSA regional office will verify all pertinent information and documentation supporting the appeal. The GSA Regional Administrator will accept or deny the appeal and will notify the appealing agency of his or her ruling.

(e) A further appeal may be filed by the customer agency's headquarters level officials with the Commissioner, Public Buildings Service, if equitable resolution has not been obtained from the initial appeal. A head of a customer agency may further appeal to the Administrator of the General Services. Documentation of the procedures followed for prior resolution must accompany an appeal to the Administrator. Decisions made by the Administrator are final.

(f) Adjustments of Rent resulting from reviews and appeals will be effective in the month that the agency submitted a properly documented appeal. Adjustments in Rent made under this section remain in effect for the remainder of the 5-year period in which the charges cited in the OA were applicable.
