
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter C - Real Property
##### PART 102-85 - PRICING POLICY FOR OCCUPANCY IN GSA SPACE
###### Subpart G - Continued Occupancy, Relocation and Forced Moves
####### ยง 102-85.200 Can customer agencies continue occupancy of space or must they relocate at the end of an OA?

The answer is contingent upon whether the customer agency is in Federally owned or leased space.

(a) Unless stated otherwise in the OA, a customer agency within a GSA controlled, Federally owned building has automatic occupancy rights at the end of the OA term for occupied space. However, a new OA must be negotiated.

(b) In leased space, the OA generally reflects the provisions of the underlying lease and will specify whether or not renewal options are available. If the OA does not include a renewal option, customer agencies should assume relocation would be necessary upon OA expiration, and budget for it. Further, renewal options are not, in themselves, a guarantee of continued occupancy at that location. In some cases, the renewal rate is substantially above market or the option was not part of the initial price evaluation for the occupancy. In such cases, GSA may be required to run a competition for the replacement lease, and a relocation may ensue. Nonetheless, it is also possible that GSA may execute a succeeding lease with the incumbent lessor, in which case there is no move.

(c) GSA and customer agencies should initiate discussions at least 18-20 months in advance of OA expiration to address an action for the replacement or continued occupancy of the existing space assignment. This allows both agencies time to budget for the work and the cost.
