
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter D - Transportation
##### PART 102-118 - TRANSPORTATION PAYMENT AND AUDIT
###### Subpart C - Use of Government Billing Documents
####### Quotations, Tenders or Contracts
######## ยง 102-118.260 Must my agency send all quotations, tenders, or contracts with a TSP to GSA?
######### audit.policy@gsa.gov

(a) Yes, your agency must send copies of each quotation, tender, or contract of special rates, fares, charges, or concessions with TSPs including those authorized by 49 U.S.C. 10721 and 13712, upon execution to-or General Services Administration, Office of Travel, Employee Relocation and Transportation, Attn: Transportation Audits Division, 1800 F Street NW, 3rd Floor, Mail Hub 3400, Washington, DC 20405.

(b) Tenders must be submitted electronically, following the instructions provided by the requesting agency. The following information must be submitted with the tender:

(1) Issuing TSP, Bureau, Agency or Conference.

(2) Tender number.

(3) Standard Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC).

(4) TSP Tax Identification Number (TIN).

(5) Issue date.

(6) Effective date.

(7) Expiration date.

(8) Origin and destination.

(9) Freight Classification and/or commodity description (including origin and destination).

(10) Rate or charge for line haul rates.

(11) Minimum weights.

(12) Route(s).

(13) Accessorial services description(s) with rate or charge and governing publication.

(14) TSP operating authority.

(c) The TSP must include a statement that the TSP will adhere and agree to the following general terms and conditions. The services provided in this tender will be performed in accordance with applicable Federal, State and municipal laws and regulations, including Federal Management Regulation parts 102-117 and 102-118 (41 CFR parts 102-117 and 102-118), and the TSP(s) hold(s) the required operating authority to transport the commodity from, to, or between the places specified in the authorized certificates, permits or temporary operating authorities.
