
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter D - Transportation
##### PART 102-118 - TRANSPORTATION PAYMENT AND AUDIT
###### Subpart D - Prepayment Audit of Transportation Services
####### Agency Requirements for a Transportation Prepayment Audit Program
######## ยง 102-118.275 What must my agency consider when developing a transportation prepayment audit program?

(a) Your agency's transportation prepayment audit program must consider all of the methods that your agency uses to order and pay for passenger, household goods, and freight transportation to include Government contractor-issued charge cards (see ยง 102-118.35 for definition Government contractor-issued charge cards).

(b) Each method of ordering transportation and transportation services for passenger, household goods, and freight transportation may require a different kind of prepayment audit process. The manner in which your agency orders or procures transportation services determines how and by whom the bill for those services will be presented. Your agency should ensure that each TSP bill or employee travel voucher contains enough information for the prepayment audit to determine which contract or rate tender is used and that the type and quantity of any additional services are clearly delineated.

(c) The prepayment audit cannot be conducted by the same firm providing the transportation services for the agency. If a move manager is being utilized, the move manager may not have any affiliation with or financial interest in the transportation company providing the transportation services for which the prepayment audit is being conducted. Contracts with charge card companies that provide prepayment audit services are a valid option. The agency can choose to-

(1) Create an internal prepayment audit program;

(2) Contract directly with a prepayment audit service provider;

(3) Use the services of a prepayment audit contractor under GSA's multiple award schedule covering audit services, including transportation prepayment audit services (541211 Auditing Services); or

(4) Use a third-party payment system (TPPS) or charge card company that includes prepayment audit functions.

(d) An appeals process must be established for a TSP to appeal any reduction in the amount billed. It is recommended the agency establish an electronic appeal process that will direct TSP-filed appeals to an agency official for determination of the claim.

(e) A process to ensure that all agency transportation procurement and related documents including contracts and tenders are submitted electronically to GSA Transportation Audits Division.
