
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 102 - Federal Management Regulation
#### Subchapter D - Transportation
##### PART 102-118 - TRANSPORTATION PAYMENT AND AUDIT
###### Subpart D - Prepayment Audit of Transportation Services
####### Agency Requirements for a Transportation Prepayment Audit Program
######## ยง 102-118.285 What must be included in an agency's transportation prepayment audit program?
######### et seq.

(2) In addition to the requirements for agencies to maintain transportation records, GSA will store paid transportation bills in accordance with the General Records Schedule 1.1(36 CFR chapter XII, part 1220). GSA will arrange for storage of any document requiring special handling, such as bankruptcy and court cases. These bills will be retained pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3309 until claims have been settled;

(f) Establish procedures in which transportation bills not subject to prepayment audit, such as bills for unused tickets and charge card billings, are handled separately and are also forwarded monthly to the GSA Transportation Audits Division;

(g) A minimum dollar threshold for transportation bills subject to audit;

(h) A statement in a cost reimbursable contracts contract or rate tender that the contractor shall submit to the address and in the electronic format identified for prepayment audit, transportation documents which show that the United States will assume freight charges that were paid by the contractor. Cost reimbursable contractors shall only submit for audit bills of lading with freight shipment charges exceeding $100.00. Bills under $100.00 shall be retained on-site by the contractor and made available for on-site Government audits (Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.247-67);

(i) Require your agency's paying office to offset, if directed by GSA's Transportation Audits Division, debts from amounts owed to the TSP within the 3 years (31 U.S.C. 3726(d));

(j) A process to ensure complete and accurate audits of all transportation bills and notification to the TSP of any adjustment within 7 calendar days of receipt of the bill;

(k) An appeals process as part of the approved prepayment audit program for a TSP to appeal any reduction in the amount billed. Refer to ยง 102-118.295 for details regarding the appeals process.

(l) Accurate notices and agency procedures for notifying the TSPs with a detailed description of the reasons for any full or partial rejection of the stated charges on the invoice. Refer to ยง 102-118.290 for notice requirements; and

(m) A unique agency numbering system to handle commercial paper and practices (see ยง 102-118.55 for information on administrative procedures your agency must establish).
