
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle B - Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
### Chapter 60 - Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor
#### PART 60-1 - OBLIGATIONS OF CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS
##### Subpart B - General Enforcement; Compliance Review and Complaint Procedure
###### ยง 60-1.26 Enforcement proceedings.
####### Referrals to the Department of Justice.

(c)(1) The Director may refer matters to the Department of Justice with a recommendation for the institution of judicial enforcement proceedings. There are no procedural prerequisites to a referral to the Department of Justice. Such referrals may be accomplished without proceeding through the conciliation procedures in this chapter, and a referral may be made at any stage in the procedures under this chapter.

(2) Whenever a matter has been referred to the Department of Justice for consideration of judicial enforcement, the Attorney General may bring a civil action in the appropriate district court of the United States requesting a temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction (including relief against noncontractors, including labor unions, who seek to thwart the implementation of the Order and regulations), and an order for such additional sanctions or relief, including back pay, deemed necessary or appropriate to ensure the full enjoyment of the rights secured by the Order, or any of the above in this paragraph (c)(2).

(3) The Attorney General is authorized to conduct such investigation of the facts as he/she deem necessary or appropriate to carry out his/her responsibilities under the regulations in this chapter.

(4) Prior to the institution of any judicial proceedings, the Attorney General, on behalf of the Director, is authorized to make reasonable efforts to secure compliance with the contract provisions of the Order. The Attorney General may do so by providing the contractor and any other respondent with reasonable notice of his/her findings, his/her intent to file suit, and the actions he/she believes necessary to obtain compliance with the contract provisions of the Order without contested litigation, and by offering the contractor and any other respondent a reasonable opportunity for conference and conciliation, in an effort to obtain such compliance without contested litigation.

(5) As used in the regulations in this part, the Attorney General shall mean the Attorney General, the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, or any other person authorized by regulations or practice to act for the Attorney General with respect to the enforcement of equal employment opportunity laws, orders and regulations generally, or in a particular matter or case.

(6) The Director or his/her designee, and representatives of the Attorney General may consult from time to time to determine what investigations should be conducted to determine whether contractors or groups of contractors or other persons may be engaged in patterns or practices in violation of the Executive Order or these regulations, or of resistance to or interference with the full enjoyment of any of the rights secured by them, warranting judicial proceedings.
