
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-8 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
##### ยง 105-8.170-7 Investigation/conciliation.

(a) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint, the Official shall complete the investigation of the complaint, attempt informal resolution, and if no informal resolution is achieved, issue a letter of findings. The 180-day time limit may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General. The investigation should include, where appropriate, a review of the practices and policies that led to the filing of the complaint, and other circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this part occurred.

(b) The Official may require agency employees to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are required by the Official to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during the course of regular duty hours.

(c) The Official shall furnish the complainant and the respondent a copy of the investigative report promptly after receiving it from the investigator and provide the complainant and the respondent with an opportunity for informal resolution of the complaint.

(d) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and signed by the complainant and respondent. The agreement shall be made part of the complaint file with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant and the respondent. The written agreement may include a finding on the issue of discrimination and shall describe any corrective action to which the complainant and the respondent have agreed.

(e) The written agreement shall remain in effect until all corrective actions to which the complainant and the respondent have agreed upon have been completed. The complainant may reopen the complaint in the event that the agreement is not carried out.
