
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-50 - PROVISION OF SPECIAL OR TECHNICAL SERVICES TO STATE AND LOCAL UNITS OF GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart 105-50.1 - General Provisions
###### ยง 105-50.104 Limitations.

The specialized or technical services provided under this part may be provided, in the discretion of the Administrator of General Services, only under the following conditions:

(a) Such services will be provided only to the States, political subdivisions thereof, and combinations or associations of such governments or their agencies and instrumentalities.

(b) Such services will be provided only upon the written request of a State or political subdivision thereof. Requests normally will be made by the chief executives of such entities and will be addressed to the General Services Administration as provided in ยง 105-50.105.

(c) Such services will not be provided unless GSA is providing similar services for its own use under the policies set forth in the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-76 Revised, dated August 30, 1967, subject: Policies for acquiring commercial or industrial products and services for Government use. In addition, in accordance with the policies set forth in Circular No. A-76, the requesting entity must certify that such services cannot be procured reasonably and expeditiously through ordinary business channels.

(d) Such services will not be provided if they require any additions of staff or involve outlays for additional equipment or other facilities solely for the purpose of providing such services, except where the costs thereof are charged to the user of such services. Further, no staff additions may be made which impede the implementation of, or adherence to, the employment ceilings contained in the Office of Management and Budget allowance letters.

(e) Such services will be provided only upon payment or provision for reimbursement by the unit of government making the request of salaries and all other identifiable direct and indirect costs of performing such services. For cost determination purposes, GSA will be guided by the policies set forth in the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-25, dated September 23, 1959, subject: User charges.
