
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-54 - ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart 105-54.2 - Establishment of Advisory Committees
###### ยง 105-54.204 Advisory committee membership.

(a) Advisory committees that GSA establishes represent the points of view of the profession, industry, or other group to which it relates, taking into account the size, function, geographical location, affiliation, and other considerations affecting the character of a committee. To ensure balance, the agency considers for membership a cross-section of interested persons and groups with professional or personal qualifications or experience to contribute to the functions and tasks to be performed. This should be construed neither to limit the participation nor to compel the selection of any particular individual or group to obtain different points of view relevant to committee business. The Administrator designates members, alternates, and observers, as appropriate, of advisory committees. He/she designates a Federal officer or employee to chair or attend each meeting of each advisory committee. The Administrator also designates GSA employees to serve on advisory committees sponsored by other Government agencies. The HSSO or Regional Administrator submits nominations and letters of designation for the Administrator's signature to the GSA Committee Management Officer and to the Special Counsel for Ethics and Civil Rights for review and forwarding to the Administrator.

(b) Discrimination is prohibited on the basis of race, color, age, national origin, religion, sex, or mental and physical handicap in selecting advisory committee members.

(c) Nominees for membership must submit a Statement of Employment and Financial Interests (provided to the nominee by the HSSO or Regional Administrator) and may not be appointed until cleared by the Designated Agency Ethics Official.
