
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-54 - ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart 105-54.3 - Advisory Committee Procedures
###### ยง 105-54.306 Amendment of advisory committee charters.

(a) A charter is amended when GSA decides that the existing charter no longer accurately reflects the objectives or functions of the committee. Changes may be minor, such as revising the name of the committee or modifying the estimated number or frequency of meetings, or they may be major dealing with the basic objectives or composition of the committee. The Administrator retains final authority for amending the charter of an advisory committee. Amending an existing advisory committee charter does not constitute renewal of the committee.

(b) To make a minor amendment, the Administrator approves the amended charter and has it filed according to ยง 105-54.203-1.

(c) To make a major amendment, the Committee Management Officer submits an amended charter and a letter to the Committee Management Secretariat, signed by the HSSO with the concurrence of the General Counsel or designee, requesting the Secretariat's views on the amended language, along with an explanation of the purpose of the changes and why they are necessary. The Secretariat reviews the proposed changes and notifies the Committee Management Officer of its views within 15 calendar days of receiving it, if possible. The Administrator has the charter filed according to ยง 105-54.203-1.

(d) Amending an existing charter does not constitute renewal of the committee.
