
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-54 - ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart 105-54.3 - Advisory Committee Procedures
###### ยง 105-54.309 Added responsibilities of service and staff office heads and regional administrators.

(a) No later than the first meeting of an advisory committee, submit to committee members, committee staff, consultants, and appropriate agency management personnel a written statement of the purpose, objectives, and expected accomplishments of the committee;

(b) Solicit in writing or in a formal meeting at least annually the views of committee members on the effectiveness, activities, and management of the committee, including recommendations for improvement. Review comments to determine whether improvements or corrective action is warranted. Retain recommendations until the committee is terminated or renewed.

(c) Involve key management personnel of the agency whose interests are affected by the committee in committee meetings, including reviewing reports and establishing agendas.

(d) Periodically, but not less than annually, review the level of committee staff suport to make sure that expenditures are justified by committee activity and benefit to the Government.

(e) Monitor the attendance and participation of committee members and consider replacing any member who misses a substantial number of scheduled meetings.

(f) Establish meeting dates and distribute agendas and other materials well in advance.
