
# Title 41 - Public Contracts and Property Management
## Subtitle C - Federal Property Management Regulations System
### Chapter 105 - General Services Administration
#### PART 105-55 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### ยง 105-55.003 Antitrust, fraud, tax, interagency claims, and claims over $100,000 excluded.

(a) The standards in this part relating to compromise, suspension, and termination of collection activity do not apply to any debt based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or to any debt involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim. The standards of this part relating to the administrative collection of claims do apply, but only to the extent authorized by the Department of Justice (DOJ) in a particular case. Upon identification of a claim based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or any claim involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim, the General Services Administration (GSA) will promptly refer the case to the GSA Office of Inspector General (OIG). The OIG has the responsibility for investigating or referring the matter, where appropriate, to DOJ for action. At its discretion, DOJ may return the claim to GSA for further handling in accordance with the standards of this part.

(b) This part does not apply to tax debts.

(c) This part does not apply to claims between GSA and other Federal agencies.

(d) This part does not apply to claims over $100,000.
